TOWN CODE
of
STAR VALLEY, ARIZONA
2006
Code current through:
Ord. O 25-01, passed February 4, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Town of Star Valley, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance O 25-01, passed February 4, 2025. Ordinances of
the Town adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to
the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the
Town office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code
has been amended, superseded or repealed.
      American Legal Publishing
      Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 006-03
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF STAR VALLEY, ARIZONA, ADOPTING THE TOWN OF STAR
VALLEY TOWN CODE BY REFERENCE; FIXING THE EFFECTIVE DATE; PROVIDING FOR
SEVERABILITY; ESTABLISHING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION THEREOF; AND DECLARING
AN EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, it is necessary and desirable for the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the Town of Star Valley that a town code be adopted that
provides for the governance of the Town; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAYOR AND COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF STAR
VALLEY, ARIZONA:
   Section 1: That certain document known as the "Town of Star Valley Town
Code", three copies of which are on file in the office of the town clerk of the
Town of Star Valley, Arizona, which document was made a public record by
Resolution No. R006-11 of the Town of Star Valley, Arizona, is hereby referred
to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this ordinance.
   Section 2: The provisions of this ordinance and the Town Code adopted
pursuant to this ordinance shall become effective from and after thirty days
from the date of the adoption of this Ordinance.
   Section 3: If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion
of this ordinance or any part of the Town Code adopted herein by reference is
for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of
the remaining portions thereof.
   Section 4: Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this
Ordinance shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein above described.
   Section 5: The immediate operation of the provision of the ordinance is
necessary for the preservations of the public health, safety and welfare of the
community and an emergency is hereby declared to exist, and this Ordinance will
be in full force and effect from and after passage and adoption by the Mayor
and Council.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Mayor and Council of the Town of STAR VALLEY,
Arizona, this 18th day of July, 2006.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL TOWN CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the town council, this town code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official town code of Star Valley, Arizona.
This town code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the Star Valley town
code and is hereby published by authority of the town council and shall be
supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation of the town as provided
in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this town code by title in any legal documents. (2006 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The town code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the town of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2006 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the town code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this town code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be inserted in their proper place in
each copy of this town code maintained by the town of Star Valley and filed in
the office of the town clerk. Each such replacement page shall be properly
identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the town code
maintained by the town of Star Valley and filed in the office of the town
clerk. (2006 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this town code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
town council. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   All general ordinances of the town passed prior to the adoption of this
town code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this town code or
are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: the planning and zoning ordinance
adopted on June 20, 2006; tax levy ordinances; all taxing ordinances including
those adopting the tax code; appropriation ordinances; assessment ordinances;
ordinances relating to boundaries, annexations and dedications; franchise or
lease ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; fee ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
budgets; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to fixing times
and locations of council, board or commission meetings; ordinances relating to
lease, purchase, sale, the transfer or acceptance of real estate or personal
property by or from the town; the continued existence and operation of any
department, agency, commission or office heretofore legally established or
held; ordinances relating to boards and commissions and all special ordinances.
   B.   The repeal of the ordinances as provided in subsection A of this
section, shall not affect any debt or fee which is accrued, any duty imposed,
any penalty incurred, nor any action or proceeding commenced under or by virtue
of the ordinances repealed or the term of office of any person holding office
at the time these ordinances take effect; nor shall the repeal of any ordinance
have the effect of reviving any ordinance heretofore repealed or superseded.
(2006 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this town code or by virtue of the
preceding section, excepting as the town code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this town code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (2006 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the town
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
town under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this town code. (2006 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
   A.   General: If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase of this town code or any part thereof is for any reason held
to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this code, or any part thereof. The town council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (2006 Code)
   B.   Conflicting Provisions: If the provisions of different chapters of this
code conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions of each chapter
shall prevail as to all matters and questions growing out of the subject matter
of such chapter. A particular provision shall prevail over a general provision
covering the same subject matter. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be
observed in the construction of this code and the ordinances of the town,
unless such construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent
of the town council, the context of this code, or the ordinances of the town.
   B.   Whenever any word in any section of this town code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this town code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
town code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   C.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the town has been
changed in the content of this town code to "title", "chapter", "section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the town's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2006 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL 1 :
All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to the common
and approved usage of the language; but technical words and phrases and such
others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning in the law shall
be construed and understood according to such peculiar and appropriate meaning.
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The town code of the town of Star Valley, Arizona, unless the context
indicates otherwise.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the town council of the town of Star
Valley, Arizona.
DAY: The period of time between any midnight and the midnight following.
DAYTIME, NIGHTTIME: Daytime is the period of time between sunrise and sunset.
Nighttime is the period of time between sunset and sunrise.
DEPARTMENT, BOARD OR EMPLOYEE: Whenever any department, board, commission,
office, officer or employee is referred to, it shall mean a department, board,
commission, office, officer or employee of the town, unless the context clearly
indicates otherwise.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the town for administration and by processing by
the town and for the carrying on of a business, profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
IN THE TOWN, WITHIN THE TOWN: Shall mean and include all territory over which
the town now has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of
its police powers or other regulatory powers.
JOINT AUTHORITY: All words purporting to give a joint authority to three (3) or
more town officers or other persons, shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons, unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MONTH: A calendar month.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health, safety and
welfare of inhabitants of the town, or any activity which by its perpetuation
can reasonably be said to have a legally recognized detrimental effect on the
property of a person or persons within the community and all to the extent
recognized pursuant to applicable Arizona law.
OATH: Includes affirmation or declaration.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: Any person who is in charge of managing, supervising, overseeing,
organizing or the owner of any operation, joint venture, business, profession,
partnership or process regardless of its legal status or temporary nature.
OWNER: As applied to any operation, business or process, a building or land,
shall include any part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, partner, co-owner,
joint tenant or lessor, lessee of the whole or of a part of such operation,
business or process, building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, nonprofit corporation, firm, limited
liability company, partnership, association, organization, government or any
other group acting as a unit, as well as a natural person whether singular or
plural.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
PRECEDING, FOLLOWING: Next before and next after, respectively.
PROPERTY: Shall include real and personal property.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property, including but not limited to, alleys, sidewalks, easements.
SHALL HAVE BEEN: Includes past and future cases.
SHALL, MAY: Shall is mandatory and may is permissive.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION BY MARK: Includes a mark when the signer cannot
write, such signer's or subscriber's name being written near the mark by a
witness who writes his own name near the signer's or subscriber's name; but a
signature or subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
signature or subscription to a sworn statement only when two (2) witnesses so
sign their own names thereto.
STATE: The state of Arizona.
STREET: Shall include easements, dedications, alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, public ways, public squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
TENSES: The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
includes the present.
TIME: A. Computation: The time within which an act is to be done as provided in
this code or in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in
days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last,
except that if the last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday it shall be
excluded; and when such time is expressed in hours, the whole of Saturday,
Sunday or a holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
   B.   Reasonable: In all cases where any section of this code shall require
any act to be done in a reasonable time or reasonable notice to be given, such
reasonable time or notice shall be deemed to mean such time only as may be
necessary for the prompt performance of such duty or compliance with such
notice.
TOWN: The town of Star Valley, Arizona.
WEEK: Consists of seven (7) consecutive days.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITING: Includes any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by
ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English
language unless it is expressly provided otherwise.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark.
YEAR: A calendar year, except where otherwise provided. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS §§ 1-211 through 1-215.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the town code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Misdemeanor: Any person found guilty of violating any provisions of
this code, except as otherwise provided in this code, shall be guilty of a
class one misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
of not to exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) or by
imprisonment for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate
offense punishable as hereinabove described.
   B.   Petty Offense: A petty offense shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   C.   Civil Traffic: Any violation of or failure or refusal to do or perform
any act required by title 6 of this code constitutes a civil traffic violation.
Civil traffic violations are subject to the provisions of title 28, chapter 6,
article 19 of the Arizona Revised Statutes and amendments thereto. (2006 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this town code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this town code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this town code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply. (2006 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this town code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the town council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND TOWN COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Composition
1-5-2: Municipal Elections
1-5-3: Requirements Of Office
1-5-4: Mayor
1-5-5: Compensation
1-5-6: Corporate Powers
1-5-7: Meetings; Procedures And Requirements
1-5-8: Ordinances, Resolutions And Contracts
1-5-9: Committees And Commissions
1-5-10: Suspension Of Rules
1-5-11: Prohibitions
1-5-12: Vacancies; Forfeiture Of Office; Filling Of Vacancies
1-5-1: COMPOSITION:
   A.   Membership; Terms 1 : The elected officers of the town shall be seven
(7) council members, one of whom shall be designated as mayor in accordance
with subsection 1-5-4A1 of this chapter. The mayor and council members shall
constitute the town council and shall continue in office until assumption of
duties of office by their duly elected successors. The regular term of office
shall be determined by resolution.
   B.   Assumption Of Duties 2 : Council members shall assume the duties of
office at the regularly scheduled council meeting next following the date of
the general election at which, or effective as of the date of which, the
council members were elected.
   C.   Vacancies 3 : The town council shall fill by appointment for the
unexpired term any vacancy that may occur for whatever reason. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS §§ 9-231 and 9-301.
2 2. ARS § 9-232.
3 3. ARS § 9-235.
1-5-2: MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS:
   A.   Primary Election 1 : Any candidate who shall receive at the primary
election a majority of all the votes cast shall be declared to be elected to
the office for which he is a candidate, effective as of the date of the general
election, and no further election shall be held as to said candidate; provided,
that if more candidates receive a majority than there are offices to be filled,
then those equal in number to the offices to be filled receiving the highest
number of votes shall be declared elected.
   B.   Nonpolitical Ballot 2 : Nothing on the ballot in any election shall be
indicative of the support of the candidate.
   C.   General Election Nomination 3 : If at any primary election held as
above provided there be any office or offices for which no candidate is
elected, then as to such office or offices, said election shall be considered
to be a primary election for nomination of candidates for such office or
offices, and the second or general municipal election shall be held to vote for
candidates to fill such office or offices. Candidates to be placed on the
ballot at such second or general municipal election shall be those not elected
at such first election, shall be equal in number to twice the number to be
elected to any given office or less than that number if there be less than that
number named on the primary election ballot. Persons who receive the highest
number of votes for the respective offices at such first election shall be the
only candidates at such second election; provided, that if there be any person
who, under the provisions of this section, would have been entitled to become a
candidate for any office, except for the fact that some other candidate
received an equal number of votes therefore, then all such persons receiving an
equal number of votes shall likewise become candidates for such office.
   D.   Election To Office 4 : The candidates equal in number to the persons to
be elected who receive the highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
   E.   Candidate Financial Disclosure 5 : Each candidate for the office of
council member shall file a financial disclosure statement when such candidate
files a nomination paper. The statement shall contain such information as
required by resolution of the town council pursuant to state law. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 4. ARS § 9-821.01.
2 1. ARS § 9-821.01.
3 2. ARS § 9-821.01.
4 3. ARS § 9-821.01.
5 4. ARS § 38-545.
1-5-3: REQUIREMENTS OF OFFICE:
   A.   Oath 1 : Immediately prior to assumption of the duties of office, each
council member shall, in public, take and subscribe to the oath of office.
   B.   Financial Disclosure Statement 2 : Each member of the town council
shall file a financial disclosure statement in a form and with such information
as provided by resolution of the town council and pursuant to state law. (2006
Code)
 
Notes
1 5. ARS § 38-231.
2 6. ARS § 38-545.
1-5-4: MAYOR:
   A.   Selection:
      1.   Mayor 1 : The mayor shall be directly elected by the electors of the
town and serve a four (4) year term. (Ord. O08-02, 4-1-2008)
      2.   Vice Mayor 2 : At the same meeting at which the mayor is seated, the
town council shall designate one of its members as vice mayor, who shall serve
at the pleasure of the town council. The vice mayor shall perform the duties of
the mayor during his absence or disability. (1986 Code §
2-2-4; amd. Ord. O08-02, 4-1-2008)
      3.   Acting Mayor: In the absence or disability of both the mayor and
vice mayor, the town council may designate another of its members to serve as
acting mayor, who shall have all the powers, duties and responsibilities of the
mayor during such absence or disability.
   B.   Powers And Duties 3 : The powers and duties of the mayor shall include
the following:
      1.   Chief Executive Officer: He shall be the chief executive officer of
the town.
      2.   Council Chairman: He shall be the chairman of the town council and
preside over its meetings. He may make and second motions and shall have a
voice and vote in all its proceedings.
      3.   Enforce Code: He shall enforce the provisions of this code.
      4.   Execute Instruments: He shall execute and authenticate by his
signature such instruments as the town council or any statutes, ordinances, or
this code shall require.
      5.   Recommendations And Suggestions: He shall make such recommendations
and suggestions to the town council as he may consider proper.
      6.   Declare Local Emergency: He may, by proclamation, declare a local
emergency to exist due to fire, conflagration, flood, earthquake, explosion,
war, bombing or any other natural or manmade calamity or disaster or in the
event of the threat or occurrence of riot, rout or affray or other acts of
civil disobedience which endanger life or property within the town. After
declaration of such emergency, the mayor shall govern by proclamation and
impose all necessary regulations to preserve the peace and order of the town,
including, but not limited to:
         a.   Imposition of a curfew in all or any portion of the town.
         b.   Ordering the closing of any business.
         c.   Closing to public access any public building, street or other
public place.
         d.   Calling upon regular or auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the political subdivision for assistance.
      7.   Other Required Duties: He shall perform such other duties required
by state statute and this code, as well as those duties required as chief
executive officer of the town. (1986 Code §
2-2-4)
   C.   Absence Limited: The mayor shall not absent himself from the town for a
greater period than fifteen (15) days without the consent of the town council.
   D.   Failure To Sign Documents: If the mayor refuses or fails to sign any
ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant, demand or other document or
instrument requiring his signature for five (5) days consecutively, then a
majority of the members of the town council may, at any regular or special
meeting, authorize the vice mayor or, in his absence, an acting mayor to sign
such ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant, demand or other document or
instrument which, when so signed, shall have the same force and effect as if
signed by the mayor. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-232.
2 2. ARS § 9-236.
3 3. ARS § 9-236.
1-5-5: COMPENSATION 1 :
The compensation of elective officers of the town shall be fixed from time to
time by resolution of the town council, but such resolution shall be effective
only after the election of a subsequent town council. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-232.01.
1-5-6: CORPORATE POWERS:
The corporate powers of the town shall be vested in the town council and shall
be exercised only as directed or authorized by law. All powers of the town
council shall be exercised by ordinance, resolution, order or motion. (2006
Code)
1-5-7: MEETINGS; PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Regular Council Meetings: The council shall hold regular meetings on
the first and third Tuesday of each month at six thirty o'clock (6:30) P.M.
provided that when the day fixed for any regular meeting of the council falls
upon a day designated by law as a legal holiday, such meeting shall be held at
the same hour on the next succeeding day which is not a holiday. All regular
meetings of the council shall be held at the Lamplighter Clubhouse, located at
3933 East Highway 260, Star Valley, AZ 85541, starting in April 2010.
   B.   Special Council Meetings: The mayor, or the clerk upon written request
of three (3) members of the council, may convene the council at any time by
notifying the members of the council of the date, hour and purpose of such
special meeting. The public shall be given at least twenty four (24) hours'
notice of any such special meeting by the posting of such notice in at least
three (3) public places; except that in the case of an actual emergency, a
meeting may be held upon such notice as is appropriate to the circumstances.
(Ord. O 10-02, 7-6-2010)
   C.   Meetings To Be Public 1 : All proceedings of the town council shall be
open to the public, except that upon approval by a majority vote of the town
council, the town council may meet in a closed executive session pursuant to
the provisions of state law.
   D.   Quorum; Attendance Requirement: A majority of the council members shall
constitute a quorum for transacting business, but a lesser number may adjourn
from time to time and compel the attendance of absent members.
   E.   Agenda: Prior to each council meeting, or on or before a time fixed by
the town council for preparation and distribution of an agenda, whichever is
earlier, the town manager shall collect all written reports, communications,
ordinances, resolutions, contracts and other documents to be submitted to the
town council, prepare an agenda according to the order of business and furnish
each council member, the mayor and the town attorney with a copy.
   F.   Order Of Business 2 : The mayor, vice mayor or acting mayor, in
consultation with the town manager, shall set the agenda and order of the
meeting pursuant to state law.
   G.   Voting:
      1.   The mayor shall vote as a member of the town council.
      2.   A roll call vote of the ayes and nays upon any question shall be
taken and entered in the minutes, except in the case of a unanimous vote. (2006
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS title 38, ch. 3, art. 3.1.
2 2. ARS § 9-234.
1-5-8: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS 1 :
   A.   Ordinance Requirements: Each ordinance should have but one subject, the
nature of which is clearly expressed in the title. Whenever possible, each
ordinance shall be introduced as an amendment to this code or to an existing
ordinance, and, in such case, the title of the sections to be amended shall be
included in the ordinance.
   B.   Two Separate Readings: All ordinances, except emergency ordinances,
shall have two (2) separate readings, but the first and the second reading
shall never be made on the same day. The first and second reading may be by
title only.
   C.   Same Day Passage Prohibited: No ordinance, except emergency ordinances,
shall be put on its final passage on the same day on which it was introduced.
   D.   Effective Date 2 : No ordinance, resolution or franchise shall become
operative until thirty (30) days after its passage by the town council and
approval by the mayor, except measures necessary for the immediate preservation
of the peace, health or safety of the town, but such an emergency measure shall
not become immediately operative unless it states in a separate section the
reason why it is necessary that it should become immediately operative, and
unless it is approved by the affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths
(3/4) of all the members elected to the town council, taken by ayes and nays.
   E.   Signatures Required: Every ordinance passed by the town council shall,
before it becomes effective, be signed by the mayor and attested by the town
clerk.
   F.   Publishing Required 3 : Only such orders, resolutions, motions,
regulations or proceedings of the town council shall be published as may be
required by state statutes or expressly ordered by the town council.
   G.   Posting Required 4 : Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine,
forfeiture or other punishment shall, after passage, be posted by the town
clerk in three (3) or more public places within the town and an affidavit of
the person who posted the ordinance shall be filed in the office of the town
clerk as proof of posting. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-234.
2 2. ARS § 19-142B, as to emergency clause.
3 3. ARS title 9, chapter 7, article 2.
4 4. ARS § 9-813.
1-5-9: COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS:
The town council may create such boards, committees and commissions, standing
or special, as it deems necessary. They shall consist of as many members and
shall perform such duties as the town council may require and shall exist at
the pleasure of the town council. (2006 Code)
1-5-10: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
Any of the provisions of sections
1-5-7 and
1-5-9 of this chapter may be temporarily suspended in connection with any
matter under consideration by a recorded vote of not less than three-fourths
(3/4) of the members present, except that this section shall not be construed
to permit any action that is contrary to state statutes. (2006 Code)
1-5-11: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Holding Other Office: Except where authorized by law, no councilman
shall hold any other elected public office or town employment during the term
for which he was elected to the council.
      1.   In the event a councilman, whose term of office will not expire
until after the date the next mayor takes office, wishes to run for the office
of mayor, he must announce his resignation as councilman at least ninety (90)
days prior to the primary election. The effective date of such resignation
shall be the date the newly elected mayor takes office.
      2.   No former councilman shall hold any compensated appointive city
office or employment until one year after the expiration of the term for which
he was elected to the council.
   B.   Appointments And Removals: Neither the council nor any of its members
shall in any manner dictate the appointment or removal of any town
administrative officers or employees whom the manager or any of his
subordinates are empowered to appoint, but the council may express its views
and fully and freely discuss with the manager anything pertaining to
appointment and removal of such officers and employees.
   C.   Interference With Administration: Except for the purpose of inquiries,
or investigations authorized under this code, the council or its members shall
deal with town officers and employees who are subject to the direction and
supervision of the manager solely through the manager, and neither the council
nor its members shall give any orders to any such officer or employee, either
publicly or privately. (Ord. O07-08, 6-5-2007)
1-5-12: VACANCIES; FORFEITURE OF OFFICE; FILLING OF VACANCIES:
   A.   Vacancies: The office of mayor or councilman shall become vacant upon
his death, resignation, forfeiture of office, or removal from office in any
manner authorized by law.
   B.   Forfeiture Of Office: The mayor or councilman shall forfeit his office
if he: 1) lacks at any time during his term of office any qualification for the
office prescribed by law, 2) violates any express prohibition of this code, 3)
is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude, or 4) fails to attend three
(3) consecutive regular meetings of the council without being excused by the
council.
   C.   Filing Of Vacancies: Vacancies in the council shall be filled as
provided in this section.
      1.   Appointment By Council: The council, by a majority vote of its
remaining members, not sooner than its next regular meeting, shall appoint a
qualified person to the council. If a vacancy to which such person is appointed
occurs at least sixty (60) days before the next scheduled primary election,
such appointment shall be deemed temporary, and such vacancy shall be filled at
the next regular election. The person elected to fill such vacancy at the
regular election shall serve only the remainder of the unexpired term. If such
vacancy occurs less than sixty (60) days prior to the next scheduled primary
election, the person appointed shall serve the full remainder of the unexpired
term.
      2.   Action If Council Fails To Appoint: If the council fails to make
such appointment within thirty (30) days following the occurrence of the
vacancy, the election authorities shall call a special election to fill the
vacancy. Such election shall be held not sooner than ninety (90) days and not
later than one hundred twenty (120) days following the occurrence of the
vacancy.
      3.   Reduction Below A Quorum: Notwithstanding the requirements that a
quorum of the council consists of four (4) members, if, at any time the
membership of the council is reduced to less than four (4), the remaining
members of the council may, by majority action, appoint additional members to
raise the membership to four (4). (Ord. O07-08, 6-5-2007)
CHAPTER 6
MUNICIPAL OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Officers; Generally
1-6-2: Town Manager
1-6-3: Town Clerk
1-6-4: Town Marshal
1-6-5: Town Engineer
1-6-6: Town Attorney
1-6-7: Finance Director
1-6-1: OFFICERS; GENERALLY:
   A.   Offices Created; Appointment 1 : There are hereby created the offices
of town manager, town clerk, town marshal, town engineer, town attorney and
town magistrate 2  who shall be appointed by the town council and who shall
serve at the pleasure of the town council, with the exception of the town
magistrate, who shall serve a term of four (4) years and with the exception of
the town marshal who shall be appointed by the town manager and shall serve at
the pleasure of the town manager.
   B.   Additional Officers; Appointment And Removal 3 : The town council may
appoint and remove from time to time such other officers as it may deem
necessary and that are not provided for in this code or state statute.
   C.   Bond Requirements 4 : The town council may require each officer of the
town to give bond for the due discharge of his duties in such sums and with
such security as it may direct and approve as determined by resolution. The
town shall pay the costs of such bond.
   D.   Powers And Duties: In addition to any powers and duties prescribed in
this code, each officer shall have such further powers, perform such further
duties and hold such other office as may be provided by the town council
through ordinance, resolution or order.
   E.   Vacancies; Holding More Than One Office 5 : Any vacancy that shall
occur in any town office shall be filled by appointment by the town council;
provided, that one person may hold more than one office and at the discretion
of the town council, the functions of a town official may be validly performed
and discharged by a deputy or another town official, or an otherwise qualified
individual not holding office but employed at the pleasure of the town council.
(2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS §§ 9-237, 9-303.
2 2. See chapter 7 of this title.
3 3. ARS § 9-239.
4 4. ARS § 9-239.
5 5. ARS § 9-239.
1-6-2: TOWN MANAGER 1 :
   A.   Office Created: There shall be created and established the office of
the town manager.
   B.   Appointment: The town manager shall be appointed by the town council
wholly on the basis of his administrative and executive ability and
qualifications and shall hold office for and at the pleasure of the town
council.
   C.   Compensation: The town manager shall receive such compensation as the
town council shall fix from time to time.
   D.   Bond Required: The town manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond
to be approved by the town council in such sum as may be determined by the town
council, and shall be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties
imposed upon the town manager as herein prescribed. Any premium for such bond
shall be a proper charge against the town.
   E.   Removal From Office: The town manager may be removed from office by a
majority vote of the town council present and voting at any regularly scheduled
meeting of the town council. A public hearing on any removal shall be held at
the request of the town manager so removed if requested within thirty (30) days
following notice of removal. During the period prior to any such public
hearing, the town council may suspend the town manager from duty but shall
continue his salary and, if the removal is confirmed, shall pay his salary for
one month following the removal date.
   F.   Powers And Duties; Administrative: The town manager shall be the
administrative head of the town government under the direction and control of
the town council, except as otherwise provided herein. He shall be responsible
to the town council for the proper administration of all affairs of the town.
In addition to his general powers as administrative head and not as a
limitation thereof, the town manager shall have the following additional powers
and duties:
      1.   Budget Preparation: Prepare the town budget annually and submit it
to the town council, together with a message describing the important features
contained therein. He shall also be responsible for its administration after
adoption.
      2.   Financial Report: Prepare and submit to the town council at the end
of each fiscal year a complete report on the finances and administrative
activities of the town during the preceding year.
      3.   Advise Council On Financial Condition: Keep the town council advised
of the financial condition and future needs of the town and make such
recommendations as he may deem desirable.
      4.   Compensation Recommendations: Recommend to the town council the
compensation for each appointive office and position in the town service. He
shall also authorize the payment of overtime pay for such employees as may work
in excess of a normal work period. All rates of pay and periods of work shall
be in conformance with wages and salaries enacted by the town council.
      5.   Appoint, Suspend And Remove Officers And Employees: Appoint, and
when necessary for the good of the town, suspend and remove all officers and
employees of the town not appointed by the town council. He may authorize the
head of a department or office to appoint, suspend or remove subordinates in
such office or department.
      6.   Recommend Necessary Measures: Recommend to the town council from
time to time the adoption of such measures which he may deem necessary or
expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the community or for the
improvement and safeguard of administrative services and functions.
      7.   Consolidate Offices: Consolidate or combine offices, positions,
departments or units under his jurisdiction with the approval of the town
council. The town manager may be the head of one or more departments.
      8.   Attend Meetings: Attend all meetings of the town council, unless
excused therefrom, and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before
the town council. He shall be entitled to receive notice of all regular and
special meetings of the town council.
      9.   Purchasing: Supervise and safeguard the purchase and use of all
materials, supplies and equipment for which funds are provided in the budget;
let contracts necessary for operation or maintenance of town services for
amounts up to and including five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) according to the
guidelines set forth in chapter 8 of this title. The town manager may issue
such rules governing purchasing procedures within the administrative
organization as the town council shall approve, within the limits of chapter 8
of this title.
      10.   Enforce Laws: See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced.
      11.   Investigate Town Affairs: Investigate the affairs of the town and
any department or division thereof; investigate all complaints in relation to
matters concerning the administration of the town government and in regard to
service maintained by the public utilities in the town, and see that all
franchises, permits and privileges granted by the town are faithfully observed.
   G.   Orders And Directions: The town council shall deal with the
administrative services of the town only through the town manager, except for
the purpose of inquiry, and neither the town council nor any members thereof
shall give orders to any subordinates of the town manager. It shall be the
responsibility of the town council and its members to aid and assist in an
advisory capacity any department head, individually or collectively, on any
phase of policy or public relations, such association not to conflict with the
administrative duties of the town manager.
   H.   Policy Making: The town manager shall not exercise any legislative
function whatsoever, nor shall he engage in policy making or institute programs
which require official action by the town council. The policy making power of
the town manager shall be implementative only. It is not intended by this
subsection to grant any authority to, or impose any duty upon the town manager
which is vested in or imposed by general law or town ordinances on any other
town commission, board, officer or employee, except as herein specifically set
forth.
   I.   Public Relations: In the discharge of his duties as town manager, the
person holding such position shall endeavor at all times to exercise the
highest degree of tact, patience and courtesy in his contacts with the public
and with all town boards, departments and employees. The town manager shall use
his best efforts to establish and maintain a harmonious relationship between
all personnel employed in the government of the town to the end that the
highest possible standards of public service shall be continuously maintained.
   J.   Perform Other Required Duties: The town manager shall perform such
other duties as may be required by the town council which are not inconsistent
with state law or town ordinances. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-303.
1-6-3: TOWN CLERK 1 :
   A.   Records:
      1.   Maintenance: The town clerk shall keep a true and correct record of
all business transacted by the town council and any other records that either
pertain to the business of the town or that the town council directs. The town
clerk shall number, plainly label and file separately in a suitable manner all
resolutions, ordinances, notices, deeds, surveys, leases, paid and unpaid
vouchers, inventories, letters, orders and other documents of whatever nature.
      2.   Public Inspection: The town clerk shall keep convenient for public
inspection all public records and public documents under his control, as
provided by state statute.
   B.   Minutes: The town clerk shall, prepare or cause to be prepared, all
minutes of town council proceedings and ensure their correctness and accuracy.
   C.   Ordinances, Resolutions, Budgets And Notices: The town clerk shall
process, record, file, publish and, if required by state statute, post all
ordinances, resolutions, budgets and notices that may be passed by the town
council.
   D.   Election Official: The town clerk shall be the town election official
and perform those duties required by state statute.
   E.   Administrative Duties: The town clerk shall perform those
administrative responsibilities and duties that are conferred upon him by the
town council or town manager, in addition to those specified in this code.
(2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS §§ 9-237 and 9-238.
1-6-4: TOWN MARSHAL 1 :
The town marshal shall be the chief of police and shall perform such duties as
may be required of him by law and as the town council or town manager may deem
necessary. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-238.
1-6-5: TOWN ENGINEER 1 :
The town engineer shall have charge of the town streets, sewers and waterworks
and shall perform such duties as may be required of him by law and such other
duties as the town council or town manager may deem necessary. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. ARS § 9-238.
1-6-6: TOWN ATTORNEY:
The town attorney shall act as the legal counselor and advisor of the town
council and other officials and, as such, shall give his opinion in writing
when requested. He shall draft all deeds, contracts, conveyances, ordinances,
resolutions and other legal instruments when required by the town council. He
shall approve as to form, in writing, all drafts of contracts and all official
or other bonds before final approval or acceptance thereof by the town council.
He shall prosecute and defend all suits, actions or causes where the town is a
party, and shall report to the town council, when required, the condition of
any suit or action to which the town is a party. (2006 Code)
1-6-7: FINANCE DIRECTOR:
   A.   Duties As Treasurer:
      1.   The finance director shall act as town treasurer, and perform all
duties associated with the collection and accounting of funds.
      2.   The finance director shall receive and safely keep all monies that
shall come to the town and pay out the same when authorized by the town
council, or town manager, as authorized by the town council. He shall keep a
separate record and account of each different fund provided by the town
council, apportion the monies received among the different funds as prescribed
by the town council, and keep a complete set of books showing every money
transaction of the town, the state of each fund, from what source the money in
each fund was derived and for what purpose expended. He shall make monthly
reports to the town council of all receipts and disbursements and the balance
in each fund.
   B.   Licenses: The finance director shall issue or cause to be issued all
licenses that may be prescribed by state statute, or this code. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 7
MAGISTRATE COURT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Established; Jurisdiction
1-7-2: Town Magistrate
1-7-3: Powers And Duties
1-7-4: Court Proceedings
1-7-5: Bail
1-7-6: Trial By Jury
1-7-7: Fees
1-7-1: ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION:
There is hereby established in the town a magistrate court, which shall have
jurisdiction of all violations of this code, and jurisdiction concurrently with
justices of the peace of precincts in which the town is located of violation of
laws of the state committed within the limits of the town. (2006 Code)
1-7-2: TOWN MAGISTRATE 1 :
The presiding officer of the magistrate court shall be the town magistrate, who
shall be appointed by the town council for a four (4) year term. The town
magistrate shall perform those functions necessary to the maintenance of the
magistrate court as provided by state statute. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 22-402.
1-7-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the town magistrate shall include:
   A.   Prescribed By Law: The powers and duties set forth and conferred upon
him under the provisions of the state constitution and statutes, this code and
the ordinances and resolutions of the town.
   B.   Docket: The keeping of a docket in which shall be entered each action
and the proceedings of the court therein.
   C.   Bonds And Bails: The responsibility for fixing and receiving all bonds
and bails and receiving all fines, penalties, fees and other monies as provided
by law.
   D.   Payment Of Fees: Payment of all fees, fines, penalties and other monies
collected by the court at least once each month to the town treasurer.
   E.   Monthly Report: Submitting a monthly report to the town council
summarizing court activities for that month.
   F.   Traffic Violation Schedules:
      1.   Preparation of a schedule of traffic violations not involving the
death of a person, listing specific bail for each violation.
      2.   Preparation of a schedule of civil traffic violations listing a
specific deposit for each violation. The town magistrate shall designate a
person, a specific location and the hours which such person will be at the
location to accept proper deposits for civil traffic violations for and on
behalf of the court.
   G.   Designation Of Deputy: Designation of a deputy other than a law
enforcement officer and a specific location at which the deputy shall, during
hours when the court is not open, set the amount of bail in accordance with the
schedule established by the court and collect such bail, or accept proper bail
bonds in lieu thereof, for and on behalf of the court. (2006 Code)
1-7-4: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Civil Or Criminal Violations; Commencement Of Action:
      1.   An action to prosecute a civil or criminal violation of a provision
of this code may be commenced by issuing an Arizona uniform traffic ticket and
complaint ("ticket and complaint") or by filing a summons and complaint in the
magistrate court. Upon determining that probable cause exists to believe that a
defendant has committed or is responsible for a violation of this code, the
town manager, his authorized representative or any peace officer may issue a
ticket and complaint and serve the defendant as provided in this section.
      2.   The ticket and complaint shall direct the defendant to appear in
magistrate court within thirty (30) days after its issuance.
      3.   Service of the ticket and complaint or of a summons and complaint
may be accomplished by the following methods:
         a.   In the case of both civil and criminal violations:
            (1)   By having the defendant sign the ticket and complaint with a
promise to appear in court within thirty (30) days (no less than 5, not more
than 30) of the issuance of the ticket and complaint;
            (2)   By hand delivering a copy of the ticket and complaint or the
summons and complaint to the defendant;
            (3)   By mailing a copy of the ticket and complaint or the summons
and complaint to the defendant certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, at his or her last known address. Service is complete upon filing
the receipt with the court.
         b.   In the case of a civil violation only, by any means allowed by
the Arizona rules of procedure for the service of a summons.
         c.   In the case of criminal violation only, by any means allowed by
the Arizona rules of criminal procedure for the service of a summons.
   B.   Rules Of Procedure Of Civil Action:
      1.   At the request of either party, or on the court's own initiative,
the court may order a pretrial conference between the town prosecutor and the
defendant.
      2.   The town prosecutor may file a standing notice of appearance for
civil traffic cases. If such notice is filed, the town is not required to give
notice to the court and to the defendant of its election to be represented by
counsel for a civil traffic hearing, if a pretrial conference has been
previously held in the case.
      3.   The town magistrate may serve as the hearing officer for civil
offenses of the magistrate court or the town magistrate may appoint a separate
hearing officer.
      4.   The hearing, rules of evidence, appeal, default and all matters
associated with the violation will be conducted in accordance for those for
civil traffic offenses in the state of Arizona.
      5.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall
determine whether a violation exists, and if so, may impose civil penalties up
to the maximum amount specified in Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-240, as
amended, and the town code for each day a violation exists beyond the initial
notice constituting a separate offense. The hearing officer may also order
abatement of the nuisance pursuant to Arizona Revised Statutes section 9-499,
as amended.
      6.   If the violator does not comply with the civil enforcement action
the town may issue a criminal ticket and complaint. A civil enforcement action
is not a prerequisite to the filing of a criminal action.
      7.   A final decision of the hearing officer may be a appealed pursuant
to Arizona Revised Statutes section 12-124, as amended.
      8.   Rules 64 and 64.1 of the Arizona rules of civil procedure shall
apply to all civil violations cases.
      9.   Any matter not addressed by the Arizona rules of court for civil
traffic violation, cases shall be governed by the Arizona rules of civil
procedure. In the event of an inconsistency between a provision of this code
and a provision of either of these sets of rules, this code shall take
priority.
   C.   Collection Of Civil Sanctions And Judgments:
      1.   The town may collect a sanction of judgment entered in a civil
violation case in any manner provided by law for collecting a civil judgment.
In the case of a judgment for the expenses of correcting a violation, the town
may file a lien against the property upon which the violation existed.
   D.   Procedure For Criminal Violations:
      1.   All cases involving a criminal violation of this code shall be
governed by the Arizona rules of criminal procedure.
      2.   If the defendant in a case of criminal violation of this code fails
to pay a fine or restitution as ordered by the court the town may collect such
fine or restitution in any manner provided by law, including petitioning the
court to issue an order to show cause to issue an arrest warrant and to punish
the defendant for contempt of court. (2006 Code)
1-7-5: BAIL:
The defendant, at any time after arrest and before conviction, shall be
admitted to bail, pursuant to law. (2006 Code)
1-7-6: TRIAL BY JURY:
   A.   Authority: The right of trial by jury shall be granted in all cases of
such a nature as are triable before a jury at common law and under the
constitution and laws of the state.
   B.   Jurors; Fees Paid: Each juror for attendance in the magistrate court
shall be paid by the town the sum of twelve dollars ($12.00) for each day or
any part thereof actually in attendance. (2006 Code)
1-7-7: FEES:
   A.   Court Enhancement Fee:
      1.   A court enhancement fee is hereby applied to each case assigned a
docket number and involving one or more criminal, civil and/or petty offenses
where any fine, fee, sanction, penalty, surcharge, assessment and/or
restitution is ordered by the magistrate court. The court enhancement fee is
not applicable to court authorized diversion programs, including authorized
defensive driving courses.
         a.   The purpose of the court enhancement fee is to assist in
providing revenue for needed staff, facilities and services to provide timely
and effective disposition of cases in an environment of sustained population
growth.
         b.   The amount of the court enhancement fee shall be established from
time to time by resolution of the town council. Notwithstanding the amount so
established, the magistrate court is authorized to waive all or a portion of
the court enhancement fee in the interest of justice or judicial economy.
      2.   Any assessments or surcharges applicable by law to the court
enhancement fee shall be applied in addition to the amount of the fee
established by council resolution and not waived by the magistrate court.
      3.   All court enhancement fees collected by the magistrate court shall
be placed in the town general fund and shall be subject to annual appropriation
by the town council for magistrate court purposes.
   B.   Warrant Fee:
      1.   A warrant fee is hereby applied for each warrant issued by the
magistrate court in each case assigned a docket number and involving one or
more criminal, civil and/or petty offenses where any fine, fee, sanction,
penalty, surcharge, assessment and/or restitution is ordered by the magistrate
court. A warrant fee may be applied to each warrant issued in a single docket
number.
         a.   The purpose of the warrant fee is to assist in providing revenue
for needed staff, facilities and services to provide timely and effective
administration of warrants in an environment of sustained population growth.
         b.   The amount of the warrant fee shall be established from time to
time by resolution of the town council. Notwithstanding the amount so
established, the magistrate court is authorized to waive all or a portion of
the warrant fee in the interest of justice or judicial economy.
      2.   Any assessments or surcharges applicable by law to the warrant fee
shall be applied in addition to the amount of the fee established by council
resolution and not waived by the magistrate court.
      3.   All warrant fees collected by the magistrate court shall be placed
in the town general fund and shall be subject to annual appropriation by the
town council for magistrate court purposes.
   C.   Process Service Fees:
      1.   A process service fee is hereby applied to each photo radar citation
("citation") issued for a traffic violation occurring within the corporate
limits of the town where the citation: a) required service of process because
the violator failed to respond to the citation within forty (40) calendar days
for original citations and twenty (20) calendar days for reissued citations; b)
service of process was completed; and c) the citation was not dismissed.
         a.   The purpose of the process service fee is to reimburse the town
for the costs of serving citations on recalcitrant violators that ignore or
otherwise fail to timely respond to citations.
         b.   The amount of the process service fee shall be established from
time to time by resolution of the town council. Notwithstanding the amount so
established, the magistrate court is authorized to waive all or a portion of
the process service fee in the interest of justice or judicial economy.
      2.   All process service fees collected by the magistrate court shall be
placed in the town general fund and shall be subject to annual appropriation by
the town council for magistrate court purposes.
   D.   Other Administrative Fees:
      1.   Other administrative fees not otherwise provided by law may be
established from time to time by town council resolution to defray costs of
administering the magistrate court. Such fees may include (but are expressly
not limited to) copying fees, telecommunications and postal fees, credit/debit
card fees, etc.
         a.   The purpose of other administrative fees established from time to
time by council resolution is to assist in providing revenue for needed staff,
facilities and services to operate and administer the magistrate court.
         b.   The amount of other administrative fees established from time to
time by council resolution shall be set forth in said resolutions.
Notwithstanding the amount so established, the magistrate court is authorized
to waive all or a portion of such other administrative fees in the interest of
justice or judicial economy.
      2.   Any assessments or surcharges applicable by law to other
administrative fees established from time to time by town council resolution
shall be applied in addition to the amount of such fees established by council
resolution and not waived by the magistrate court.
      3.   Any other administrative fees collected by the magistrate court
shall be placed in the town general fund and shall be subject to annual
appropriation by the town council for magistrate court purposes. (Ord. O07-14,
11-20-2007)
CHAPTER 8
PURCHASING POLICY
SECTION:
1-8-1: Purchasing Agent; Authority
1-8-2: Bidding Procedures
1-8-3: Lowest Responsible Bidder Determined
1-8-4: Emergency Purchases
1-8-5: Cooperative Purchasing
1-8-6: Performance Bond
1-8-1: PURCHASING AGENT; AUTHORITY:
The town manager, or his designee, shall be the purchasing agent for the town.
No purchase or contract for services of any kind or description, payment for
which is to be made from funds of the town, shall be made by the purchasing
agent or any officer, employee or agent of the town, except in the manner set
forth in this chapter. Whenever any contemplated purchase or contract for goods
or services is in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), such purchase or
contract shall be presented to the town council for approval. The town council
may request that the purchasing agent solicit bids in the manner set forth
herein prior to the approval of any such purchase or contract. (2006 Code)
1-8-2: BIDDING PROCEDURES:
When solicitation of bids is requested by the town council, or is required by
applicable state law, or if the purchasing agent determines that it is in the
best interests of the town to solicit bids, the purchasing agent shall conduct
the bidding procedures in the following manner:
   A.   Notice Contents: All notices and solicitation of bids shall state the
time and place for opening.
   B.   Submission: All bids shall be submitted sealed to the purchasing agent
and shall be identified as bids on the envelope.
   C.   Opening: All bids shall be opened in public at the time and place
stated in the public notice.
   D.   Tabulation; Posting: A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted
in the town hall for public inspection. (2006 Code)
1-8-3: LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER DETERMINED:
The town council shall have the authority to reject any and all bids and parts
of all bids and readvertise or resolicit bids. Unless the town council
exercises its right of rejection, the purchase or contract shall be made from
and with the lowest responsible bidder for the entire purchase or contract or
for any part thereof. In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the town
council may consider:
   A.   Ability: The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required.
   B.   Timely Performance: Whether the bidder can perform the contract or
provide the services promptly or within the specified time, without delay or
interference.
   C.   Quality Of Previous Contracts: The quality of performance of previous
contracts.
   D.   Compliance With Laws: The previous and existing compliance by the
bidder with the laws and ordinances of the town.
   E.   Financial Resources: The financial resources and ability of the bidder
to perform the contract.
   F.   Supplies; Services: The quality, availability and adaptability of the
supplies or service. (2006 Code)
1-8-4: EMERGENCY PURCHASES:
In case of an emergency which requires immediate purchases of supplies or
services and when time is of the essence, the mayor shall be empowered to
authorize the purchasing agent to purchase goods or secure services without
complying with the procedures of this chapter. A full report in writing of the
circumstances of any emergency purchase shall be filed by the purchasing agent
with the town council at its next meeting. (2006 Code)
1-8-5: COOPERATIVE PURCHASING:
When solicitation of bids is requested by the town council or required by
applicable state law, the purchasing agent may make purchases or award
contracts for services without a formal bidding process whenever other
governmental units have done so for the same item or service if a separate
bidding process is not likely to result in a lower price for such items or
services. (2006 Code)
1-8-6: PERFORMANCE BOND:
The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require a performance bond, in
cash or otherwise, for such amount as he may deem sufficient to secure the
execution of the contract for the best interest of the town. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 9
OFFICIAL NEWS AGENCY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Appointed
1-9-1: APPOINTED:
   A.   The "Rim Country Gazette" shall be named the official "news agency" for
the town of Star Valley.
   B.   All public communications, legal notices, publications, press releases,
advertisements, community bulletins, classifieds and news reports shall be
directed to them.
   C.   Should the town manager discover that such designation is not in the
best interest of the town due to excessive costs or legal timing he may waiver
from this section. (Res. R 08-10, 5-6-2008)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Established
2-1-2: Organization
2-1-3: Election Of Chair And Vice Chair
2-1-4: Duties
2-1-5: Meetings
2-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
The planning and zoning commission of the town is hereby established. (Ord. O
11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-1-2: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Composition: The planning and zoning commission shall be composed of a
minimum of five (5) members, who shall be residents of the town. A member of
the town council shall not be permitted to serve as a member of this
commission.
   B.   Appointment: The members of the planning and zoning commission shall be
appointed by the mayor, subject to the approval of the town council.
   C.   Terms; Termination: These appointments shall be for a period of three
(3) years each, with the terms of members so staggered that the terms of no
more than three (3) members shall expire in any one year. The term of all
members shall extend until their successors are qualified, provided however,
three (3) successive unexcused or unexplained absences from any regular or
special meeting shall be grounds for termination at the will and pleasure of
the appointing authority, without the necessity of a hearing or notice and such
action shall be final.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of commission members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of commission
members shall be required for passage of any matter before the planning and
zoning commission. In this connection, the minutes of the meeting shall reflect
the ayes and nays cast on a particular measure and shall reflect the vote of
each member present. A member may abstain from voting only upon declaration
that he or she has a conflict of interest, in which case such member shall take
no part in the deliberations on the matter in question. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-
2011)
2-1-3: ELECTION OF CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR:
The planning and zoning commission shall elect a chair and vice chair from
among its own members, who shall serve for one year and until their successors
are elected and qualified. The chair shall preside at all meetings and exercise
all the usual rights, duties and prerogatives of the head of any similar
organization. The chair shall have the power to administer oaths and to take
evidence. The vice chair shall perform the duties of the chair in the latter's
absence or disability. Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the
unexpired term by a new election. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-1-4: DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to
formulate, create and administer any lawful plan duly adopted by the town
council for the present and future growth of the town pertaining to the use of
land and buildings for any purpose, together with all incidental activities
usually associated therewith and commonly known as "planning and zoning"; to
make or cause to be made a continuous study of the best present and future use
to which land and buildings shall be put within the town and in cooperation
with adjacent areas; to recommend to the town council revisions in such plans
which, in the opinion of the planning and zoning commission, are for the best
interest of the citizens of the town; to promulgate rules of procedure and to
supervise the enforcement of rules so promulgated by the planning and zoning
commission and approved by the town council. In addition to any authority
otherwise imposed by law, the commission shall have the following power and
duties, to be exercised in accordance with the terms of this chapter:
      1.   To hold public hearings when necessary or when required by law.
      2.   To initiate, hear, review and make recommendations to the council
regarding applications for amendments to the general plan or area specific
plans.
      3.   To make recommendations to the council on all matters concerning or
relating to the creation of zoning ordinances, the boundaries thereof, the
appropriate regulations to be enforced therein, and amendments of the zoning
ordinance and zoning district map and to undertake any other activities usually
associated therewith and commonly known as "planning and zoning".
      4.   To hear, review and make recommendations to the council on all
applications for development, including subdivisions, site plans, specific
plans, use permits, and any other permit or review process as provided in this
chapter or the subdivision title. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-1-5: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the commission shall be open to the public. Public input shall be
permitted on all matters before the commission. The minutes of the proceedings,
showing the vote of each member and records of its examinations and other
official actions, shall be kept and filed in the office of the town clerk as a
public record. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS AND ROADS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Organization
2-2-2: Election Of Chair And Vice Chair
2-2-3: Duties
2-2-4: Meetings
2-2-1: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Composition: The streets and roads commission shall be composed of a
minimum of five (5) members, who shall be residents of the town. A member of
the town council shall not be permitted to serve as a member of this
commission.
   B.   Appointment: The members of the streets and roads commission shall be
appointed by the mayor, subject to the approval of the town council.
   C.   Terms/Terminations: These appointments shall be for a period of three
(3) years each, with the terms of members so staggered that the terms of no
more than three (3) members shall expire in any one year. The term of all
members shall extend until their successors are qualified, provided however,
two (2) successive unexcused or unexplained absences from any regular or
special meeting shall be grounds for termination at the will and pleasure of
the appointing authority, without the necessity of a hearing or notice and such
action shall be final.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of commission members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of commission
members shall be required for passage of any matter before the streets and
roads commission. In this connection, the minutes of the meeting shall reflect
the ayes and nays cast on a particular measure and shall reflect the vote of
each member present. A member may abstain from voting only upon declaration
that he or she has a conflict of interest, in which case such member shall take
no part in the deliberations on the matter in question. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-
2011)
2-2-2: ELECTION OF CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR:
The streets and roads commission shall elect a chair and vice chair from among
its own members, who shall serve for one year and until their successors are
elected and qualified. The chair shall preside at all meetings and exercise all
the usual rights, duties and prerogatives of the head of any similar
organization. The chair shall have the power to administer oaths and to take
evidence. The vice chair shall perform the duties of the chair in the latter's
absence or disability. Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the
unexpired term by a new election. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-2-3: DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the streets and roads commission:
      1.   To recommend to town council the annual street improvement program.
      2.   To maintain streets, roads and sign inventory.
      3.   To recommend streets and roads maintenance programs to town staff.
      4.   To hear citizen requests for streets, roads and sign maintenance or
repair.
      5.   To recommend transportation systems. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-2-4: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the commission shall be open to the public. Public input shall be
permitted on all matters before the commission. The minutes of the proceedings,
showing the vote of each member and records of its examinations and other
official actions, shall be kept and filed in the office of the town clerk as a
public record. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
2-3-1: Organization
2-3-2: Election Of Chair And Vice Chair
2-3-3: Duties
2-3-4: Meetings
2-3-1: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Composition: The board of adjustment shall be composed of a minimum of
five (5) members, who shall be residents of the town. A member of the town
council shall not be permitted to serve as a member of this commission.
   B.   Appointment: The members of the board of adjustment shall be appointed
by the mayor, subject to the approval of town council.
   C.   Terms/Termination: These appointments shall be for a period of three
(3) years each, with the terms of members so staggered that the terms of no
more than three (3) members shall expire in any one year. The term of all
members shall extend until their successors are qualified, provided however,
two (2) successive unexcused or unexplained absences from any regular or
special meeting shall be grounds for termination at the will and pleasure of
the appointing authority, without the necessity of a hearing or notice and such
action shall be final.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of board members
shall be required for passage of any matter before the board of adjustment. In
this connection, the minutes of the meeting shall reflect the ayes and nays
cast on a particular declaration that he or she has a conflict of interest, in
which case such member shall take no part in the deliberations on the matter in
question. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-3-2: ELECTION OF CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR:
The board of adjustment shall elect a chair and vice chair from among its own
members, who shall serve for one year and until their successors are elected
and qualified. The chair shall preside at all meetings and exercise all the
usual rights, duties and prerogatives of the head of any similar organization.
The chair shall have the power to administer oaths and to take evidence. The
vice chair shall perform the duties of the chair in the latter's absence or
disability. Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the unexpired
term by a new election. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-3-3: DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the board of adjustment:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals in which it is alleged there is an error
in an order, requirement or decision made by the zoning administrator in the
enforcement of a zoning ordinance adopted pursuant to this code.
      2.   To hear and decide appeals for variances from the terms of the
zoning ordinance only if, because of special circumstances applicable to the
property including its size, shape, topography, location, or surroundings, the
strict application of the zoning ordinance will deprive such property of
privileges enjoyed by other property of the same classification in the same
zoning district. Any variance granted is subject to such conditions as will
assure that the adjustment authorized shall not constitute a grant of special
privileges inconsistent with the limitations upon other properties in the
vicinity and zone in which such property is located.
      3.   To reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order,
requirement or decision of the zoning administrator appealed from, and make
such order, requirement, decision or determination as necessary.
   B.   A board of adjustment may not:
      1.   Make any changes in the uses permitted in any zoning classification
or zoning district, or make any changes in the terms of the zoning ordinance
provided the restriction in this subsection shall not affect the authority to
grant variances pursuant to this code.
      2.   Grant a variance if the special circumstances applicable to the
property are self-imposed by the property owner. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-3-4: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the board shall be open to the public. Public input shall be
permitted on all matters before the board. The minutes of the proceedings,
showing the vote of each member and records of its examinations and other
official actions, shall be kept and filed in the office of the town clerk as a
public record. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
CHAPTER 4
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN REVIEW COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Organization
2-4-2: Election Of Chair And Vice Chair
2-4-3: Duties
2-4-4: Meetings
2-4-1: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Composition: The Community Betterment Committee shall be composed of a
total of five (5) members who shall be residents of the town. A member of the
town council shall not be permitted to serve as a member of this committee.
   B.   Appointment: The members of the Community Betterment Committee shall be
appointed by the council from a list of interested residents in Star Valley.
   C.   Terms/Termination: These appointments shall be for a period of three
(3) years each for three (3) committee members and two (2) years each for two
(2) committee members. The term of all members shall extend until their
successors are qualified, provided however, two (2) successive unexcused
absences from any regular or special meeting shall be grounds for termination
at the will and pleasure of the appointing authority without the necessity of a
hearing or notice and such action shall be final.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of committee members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of committee
members shall be required for passage of any matter before the Community
Betterment Committee. In this connection, the minutes of the meeting shall
reflect the ayes and nays cast on a particular measure and shall reflect the
vote of each member present. A member may abstain from voting only upon
declaration that he or she has a conflict of interest, in which case such
member shall take no part in the deliberations on the matter in question. (Ord.
O 11-01, 9-20-2011; amd. Ord. O 24-02, 11-5-2024; Ord. O 25-01, 2-4-2025)
2-4-2: ELECTION OF CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR:
The Community Betterment Committee shall elect a chair and a vice chair from
among its own members, who shall serve for one year and until their successors
are elected and qualified. The chair shall preside at all meetings and exercise
all the usual powers, rights, duties, and prerogatives of the head of any
similar organization. The chair shall have the power to administer oaths and to
take evidence. The vice chair shall perform the duties of the chair in the
latter's absence or disability. Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled
for the unexpired term by a new election. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011; amd. Ord. O
24-02, 11-5-2024)
2-4-3: DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Community Betterment Committee:
      1.   To recommend innovative ideas to the town council that will enhance
the beauty of the town and promote an image of community.
      2.   To develop those ideas with a cost analysis before presentation to
the council.
      3.   To research projects from other communities to assist in finding new
ideas for Star Valley.
      4.   To research and recommend projects to the council that will improve
both the aesthetics and health and safety of the community.
      5.   To review existing building codes and required permits including
signage regulations to recommend to the council any changes that would be
consistent with the goal of aesthetic betterment of the community and the
promotion of a consistent image. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011; amd. Ord. O 24-02,
11-5-2024)
2-4-4: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the committee shall be open to the public. Public input shall be
permitted on all matters before the committee. The minutes of the proceedings,
showing the vote of each member and records of its examinations and other
official actions, shall be kept and filed in the office of the town clerk as a
public record. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011; amd. Ord. O 24-02, 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 5
WATER AND SEWER COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Organization
2-5-2: Election Of Chair And Vice Chair
2-5-3: Duties
2-5-4: Meetings
2-5-1: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Composition: The town of Star Valley water and sewer commission shall
be composed of not less than five (5) members, who shall be residents of the
town. A member of the town council shall not be permitted to serve as a member
of this commission.
   B.   Appointment: The members of the town of Star Valley water and sewer
commission shall be appointed by the mayor, subject to the approval of town
council.
   C.   Terms/Termination: These appointments shall be for a period of three
(3) years each, with the terms of members so staggered that the terms of no
more than three (3) members shall expire in any one year. The term of all
members shall extend until their successors are qualified, provided however,
two (2) successive unexcused or unexplained absences from any regular or
special meeting shall be grounds for termination at the will and pleasure of
the appointing authority, without the necessity of a hearing or notice and such
action shall be final.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of commission members shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of commission
members shall be required for passage of any matter before the town of Star
Valley water and sewer commission. In this connection, the minutes of the
meeting shall reflect the ayes and nays cast on a particular declaration and
shall reflect the vote of each member present. A member may abstain from voting
upon a declaration that he or she has a conflict of interest, in which case
such member shall take no part in the deliberations on the matter in question.
(Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-5-2: ELECTION OF CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR:
The town of Star Valley water and sewer commission shall elect a chair and vice
chair from among its own members, who shall serve for one year and until their
successors are elected and qualified. The chair shall preside at all meetings
and exercise all the usual rights, duties and prerogatives of the head of any
similar organization. The chair shall have the power to administer oaths and to
take evidence. The vice chair shall perform the duties of the chair in the
latter's absence or disability. Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled
for the unexpired term by a new election. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-5-3: DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the town of Star Valley water and sewer
commission:
      1.   To oversee, assist and maintain records in acquiring well monitoring
data and rain gauge data to be recorded and analyzed by a certified hydrology
firm.
      2.   To pursue all available options and assist in solutions to current
and future wastewater treatment problems.
      3.   To explore and serve the town of Star Valley in acquiring
groundwater and surface water resources and to assist in the management of
those resources.
      4.   To work with communities with common objectives for improving water
and wastewater conditions.
      5.   To provide recommendations on water and wastewater matters to the
Star Valley town council for consideration and action.
      6.   To assist in water conservation measures and education.
      7.   To perform any additional water and sewer duties as assigned by the
Star Valley town council.
      8.   A commission member shall be present at all meetings concerning town
of Star Valley water and sewer issues. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-5-4: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the commission shall be open to the public. Public input shall be
permitted on all matters before the commission. The minutes of the proceedings,
showing the vote of each member and records of its examinations and other
official actions, shall be kept and filed in the office of the town clerk as a
public record. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
CHAPTER 6
FLOODWATER TASK FORCE COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Organization
2-6-2: Election Of Chair And Vice Chair
2-6-3: Duties
2-6-4: Meetings
2-6-1: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Composition: The floodwater task force commission shall be composed of
a minimum of five (5) members, who shall be residents of the town. A member of
the town council shall not be permitted to serve as a member of this
commission.
   B.   Appointment: The members of the floodwater task force commission shall
be appointed by the mayor, subject to the approval of town council.
   C.   Terms/Termination: These appointments shall be for a period of three
(3) years each, with the terms of members so staggered that the terms of no
more than three (3) members shall expire in any one year. The term of all
members shall extend until their successors are qualified, provided, however,
two (2) successive unexcused or unexplained absences from any regular or
special meeting shall be grounds for termination at the will and pleasure of
the appointing authority, without the necessity of a hearing or notice and such
action shall be final.
   D.   Quorum: A majority of board members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business. The affirmative vote of a majority of board members
shall be required for passage of any matter before the floodwater task force
commission. In this connection, the minutes of the meeting shall reflect the
ayes and nays cast on a particular declaration that he or she has a conflict of
interest, in which case such member shall take no part in the deliberations on
the matter in question. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-6-2: ELECTION OF CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR:
The floodwater task force commission shall elect a chair and vice chair from
among its own members, who shall serve for one year and until their successors
are elected and qualified. The chair shall preside at all meetings and exercise
all the usual rights, duties and prerogatives of the head of any similar
organization. The chair shall have the power to administer oaths and to take
evidence. The vice chair shall perform the duties of the chair in the latter's
absence or disability. Vacancies created by any cause shall be filled for the
unexpired term by a new election. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-6-3: DUTIES:
Research flood mitigation issues. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-6-4: MEETINGS:
Meetings of the floodwater task force commission shall be open to the public.
Public input shall be permitted on all matters before the floodwater task force
commission. The minutes of the proceedings, showing the vote of each member and
records of its examinations and other official actions, shall be kept and filed
in the office of the town clerk as a public record. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
CHAPTER 7
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-7-1: Application For Appeal
2-7-2: Membership Of Board
2-7-2-1: Qualifications
2-7-2-2: Alternate Members
2-7-2-3: Chairman
2-7-2-4: Disqualification Of Member
2-7-2-5: Secretary
2-7-2-6: Compensation Of Members
2-7-3: Notice Of Meeting
2-7-4: Open Hearing
2-7-4-1: Procedure
2-7-5: Postponed Hearing
2-7-6: Board Decision
2-7-6-1: Resolution
2-7-6-2: Administration
2-7-7: Court Review
2-7-1: APPLICATION FOR APPEAL:
Any person shall have the right to appeal a decision of the code official to
the board of appeals. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that
the true intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply, or an
equally good or better form of construction is proposed. The application shall
be filed on a form obtained from the code official within twenty (20) days
after the notice was served. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-2: MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD:
The board of appeals shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the chief
appointing authority as follows: one for five (5) years, one for four (4)
years, one for three (3) years, one for two (2) years, and one for one year.
Thereafter, each new member shall serve for five (5) years or until a successor
has been appointed. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-2-1: QUALIFICATIONS:
The board of appeals shall consist of five (5) individuals, one from each of
the following professions or disciplines:
   A.   Registered design professional who is a registered architect; or a
builder or superintendent of building construction with at least ten (10)
years' experience; five (5) years of which shall have been in responsible
charge of work.
   B.   Registered design professional with structural engineering or
architectural experience.
   C.   Registered design professional with mechanical and plumbing engineering
experience; or a mechanical and plumbing contractor with at least ten (10)
years' experience, five (5) years of which shall have been in responsible
charge of work.
   D.   Registered design professional with electrical engineering experience;
or an electrical contractor with at least ten (10) years' experience, five (5)
years of which shall have been in responsible charge of work.
   E.   Registered design professional with fire protection engineering
experience; or a fire protection contractor with at least ten (10) years'
experience, five (5) years of which shall have been in responsible charge of
work. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-2-2: ALTERNATE MEMBERS:
The chief appointing authority shall appoint two (2) alternate members who
shall be called by the board chairman to hear appeals during the absence or
disqualification of a member. Alternate members shall possess the
qualifications required for board membership, and shall be appointed for five
(5) years or until a successor has been appointed. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-2-3: CHAIRMAN:
The board shall annually select one of its members to serve as chairman. (Ord.
O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-2-4: DISQUALIFICATION OF MEMBER:
A member shall not hear an appeal in which that member has any personal,
professional or financial interest. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-2-5: SECRETARY:
The chief administrative officer shall designate a qualified clerk to serve as
secretary to the board. The secretary shall file a detailed record of all
proceedings in the office of the chief administrative officer. (Ord. O 11-01,
9-20-2011)
2-7-2-6: COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS:
Compensation of members shall be determined by law. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-3: NOTICE OF MEETING:
The board shall meet upon notice from the chairman, within ten (10) days of the
filing of an appeal or at stated periodic meetings. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-4: OPEN HEARING:
All hearings before the board shall be open to the public. The appellant, the
appellant's representative, the code official and any person whose interests
are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-
2011)
2-7-4-1: PROCEDURE:
The board shall adopt and make available to the public through the secretary,
procedures under which a hearing shall be conducted. The procedures shall not
require compliance with strict rules of evidence, but shall mandate that only
relevant information be received. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-5: POSTPONED HEARING:
When five (5) members are not present to hear an appeal, either the appellant
or the appellant's representative shall have the right to request a
postponement of the hearing. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-6: BOARD DECISION:
The board shall modify or reverse the decision of the code official by a
concurring vote of three (3) members. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-6-1: RESOLUTION:
The decision of the board shall be by resolution. Certified copies shall be
furnished to the appellant and to the code official. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-6-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The code official shall take immediate action in accordance with the decision
of the board. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
2-7-7: COURT REVIEW:
Any person, whether or not a previous party of the appeal, shall have the right
to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of certiorari to correct errors of
law. Application for review shall be made in the manner and time required by
law following the filing of the decision in the office of the chief
administration officer. (Ord. O 11-01, 9-20-2011)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS PERMITS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Enforcement
3-1-3: Permit Required
3-1-4: General Permit Requirements
3-1-5: Application For Permit; Fee
3-1-6: Investigation; Issuance
3-1-7: Temporary Use Permit
3-1-8: Rules And Regulations
3-1-9: Refusal To Issue; Authority
3-1-10: Revocation Of Permit
3-1-11: Appeal
3-1-12: Penalty
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
BUSINESS: Any trade, calling, profession or occupation which regularly provides
goods and/or services within the corporate limits of the town of Star Valley.
"Business" does not include schools, churches, athletic groups or nonprofit
organizations.
PERMANENT BUSINESS: A business use which occurs for a period of more than six
(6) months a year.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, joint venture, association,
corporation or any other group, organization or entity acting as a unit in the
plural as well as the singular number.
REGULARLY: At least once a month.
SPECIAL EVENT: An event which:
   A.   Is carried on in a temporary structure or outside.
   B.   Includes, but is not limited to, circuses, fairs, carnivals, festivals,
religious revivals, political rallies, vehicle shows and displays, swap meets,
rodeos and similarly recognized temporary activities.
   C.   Does not include wedding and funeral ceremonies, elections, private
yard sales, car washes and activities such as retail sales promotions that
could otherwise be lawfully conducted in accordance with the provisions of the
zoning restrictions in the district where such promotion takes place.
   D.   Does not include minor fundraising activities of schools, churches,
athletic groups or nonprofit organizations which have a minimal impact on
surrounding properties. "Minor" would not include those activities listed in
subsection B of this definition.
TEMPORARY BUSINESS: A temporary business use which occurs for a period of less
than six (6) months a year from a temporary location or structure. "Temporary
business" shall include peddlers, solicitors and transient merchants. (2006
Code)
3-1-2: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of any police officer of the town to enforce this chapter.
Police officers shall have the duty and right:
   A.   Arrest: To make arrests for any violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Demand Permit Exhibition: To enter, free of charge and at any
reasonable time, any place of business for which a business permit or temporary
use permit is required by this chapter and to demand exhibition of the business
permit or temporary use permit for the current period of time from any person
engaged or employed in carrying on any business at such place of business.
   C.   Criminal Complaints: To cause criminal complaints to be filed against
any person who violates any provisions of this chapter. (2006 Code)
3-1-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Annual Business Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on
any business, either from a permanent structure or a mobile structure or by
personal solicitation or contact, or to conduct a special event, without first
having obtained an annual business permit from the town, or without complying
with any and all regulations specified in this chapter.
   B.   Temporary Permit: It shall be unlawful for any person to carry on or
conduct a temporary business or special event without first having obtained a
temporary use permit. (2006 Code)
3-1-4: GENERAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Separate Permit: A separate permit must be obtained for each branch
establishment or location in which any business is carried on.
   B.   More Than One Business:
      1.   When more than one business is carried on, transacted or practiced
in the same location by the same person, then only one permit shall be required
for such person.
      2.   When more than one business is carried on, transacted or practiced
in one location by a person other than the primary person, a separate permit
shall be obtained for each person conducting such business. For example, for
construction jobs, the general contractor and each subcontractor will be
required to obtain separate permits.
   C.   Special Events: For special events, only the sponsor of the primary
event shall be required to obtain a business permit and temporary use permit.
The town council, however, may require all vendors participating in the event
to obtain a permit if it is deemed necessary for preserving the general health,
welfare and safety of the community. (2006 Code)
3-1-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   Form; Information Required:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the finance department to provide the
appropriate application form and to prepare and issue a business permit under
this chapter for every person liable to obtain such a permit hereunder. If the
proposed use involves a temporary business or a special event, the finance
department shall also provide the applicant with a temporary use permit
application.
      2.   The business permit application shall include, but not necessarily
be limited to, the following information:
         a.   Name of business.
         b.   Name of applicant and relationship to the business or entity.
         c.   Complete permanent and local addresses.
         d.   A brief description of the nature and type of the business.
         e.   If business is a corporation, the state where incorporated and
the statutory agent.
         f.   List of officers/owners of the business, with their dates of
birth and social security numbers.
         g.   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
         h.   The state sales tax number.
         i.   If applicable, contractor's license number.
   B.   Fee; Payment; Exemption:
      1.   Any person applying for a business permit under this chapter shall
pay an annual processing fee, as established by resolution of the town council.
If the annual processing fee is not paid within thirty (30) days of the
anniversary date of the issuance of the business permit, the business permit
shall be null and void and a new permit and processing fee will be required.
      2.   The town may periodically send to business owners a form requesting
updated information relating to their respective business permits. If the form
is not returned to the town within thirty (30) days, the business permit shall
be null and void and a new permit and processing fee will be required.
      3.   Any new business permit fee shall become due and payable on or
before the day of commencement of the business or event for which a permit is
required.
      4.   In special circumstances, the town treasurer may waive all or part
of the fee requirement where the fee would cause undue hardship on the person
applying for the permit. (2006 Code)
3-1-6: INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE:
Upon receipt of a completed business permit application, the finance department
shall:
   A.   Police Department: Promptly notify the police department of the pending
application, which may conduct a check for any outstanding warrants on the
applicant.
   B.   Zoning Requirements: Promptly forward the application to the planning
and zoning department, which shall review it to verify that all zoning
requirements are satisfied.
   C.   Time Limit For Issuance: Issue the permit within a period of forty
eight (48) hours (2 working days). (2006 Code)
3-1-7: TEMPORARY USE PERMIT:
   A.   Application: The application for a temporary use permit shall include,
but not necessarily be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The length of time for which the permit is desired, including the
hours of operation for each day.
      2.   The location of the proposed use or event.
      3.   A brief description of the proposed use or event.
      4.   A brief description of what sanitary facilities are available at the
location of the proposed use.
      5.   If the proposed use involves peddlers, solicitors or transient
merchants, the names of all salespersons, with their dates of birth and social
security numbers.
      6.   If the proposed use will be conducted on property not owned by the
applicant, the applicant shall provide a notarized statement from the owner of
the property where the proposed use will take place, indicating that the
applicant has permission from the property owner.
   B.   Investigation And Review; Issuance: Upon receipt of a temporary use
permit application, the finance department shall promptly forward the
application to the planning and zoning department, which shall then review the
application to ensure compliance with this chapter and all applicable zoning
requirements. If the requested permit will involve peddlers, solicitors,
transient merchants or vendors, the names of all salespersons listed on the
application shall be forwarded to the police department to check for
outstanding warrants. If the application is approved by the planning and zoning
department and there are no outstanding warrants on any individual involved
with the application, the permit shall be issued.
   C.   Special Event: If the temporary use permit involves a special event,
the applicant shall be provided with an information sheet listing guidelines
for special events. The planning and zoning department shall have the right to
impose conditions on the permit, including but not limited to, insurance,
public safety, parking, health and sanitation. The town has the sole discretion
to require certain conditions protecting the public health, safety and welfare
of the town when issuing any permit and the town may, in its sole discretion,
prohibit the operation of any business (permanent or temporary) or special
event on or in public property, public right of way, or property the town
controls through lease or otherwise.
   D.   Fee: Any person applying for a temporary use permit shall pay a fee
established by resolution of the town council. Such fee shall be due and
payable before the temporary use begins.
   E.   Validity: If a temporary use permit is issued, it shall indicate the
time period for which it is valid. A temporary use permit shall be valid for a
period not to exceed six (6) months. (2006 Code)
3-1-8: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   Exhibition Of Permit:
      1.   Every permittee carrying on a business at a fixed place shall keep
such permit posted and exhibited, while in force, in some conspicuous part of
the place of business. Every permittee not having a fixed place of business,
shall carry the permit with him at all times while carrying on that business
for which the same was granted.
      2.   Every sponsor of a special event shall post the business permit and
the temporary use permit required under this chapter in a conspicuous location
during all hours of the special event.
      3.   Every permittee shall produce and exhibit their permit whenever
requested to do so by any police officer or by any citizen. If the permittee or
any person engaged or employed by the permittee shall refuse or neglect to
exhibit the permit, such person shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter.
   B.   Location Restrictions: No permittee hereunder shall have any exclusive
right to any location in a public street, nor shall the permittee be permitted
to operate in any congested area where his operations might impede or
inconvenience the public. No business activity shall be carried on in any area
of the town where such business activity is prohibited by the town's zoning
regulations.
   C.   Nontransferable: No permit granted or issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall be in any manner assignable or transferable to any other
person without permission from the finance department.
   D.   Change Of Place Of Business: No permit issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall apply to any place of business other than that designate in
such permit, unless a change of place of permitted business shall be first
approved by the finance department. (2006 Code)
3-1-9: REFUSAL TO ISSUE; AUTHORITY:
The finance department shall have the power to refuse to issue a business and/
or temporary use permit if the person applying for the permit fails to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. (2006 Code)
3-1-10: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   Reasons Specified: Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter
may be revoked by the finance department, after ten (10) days' written notice
and an administrative hearing, for any of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
applying for a permit;
      2.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the business;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      5.   Conducting a business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as
to constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public;
      6.   Failure to comply with any term or condition of approval as
specified in the permit application, such as, but not limited to, insurance
naming the town as an additional insured, building permits, tent permits,
signage schedules and development.
   B.   Notice And Hearing: If the finance department has reason to believe
that a permittee is guilty of any of the items listed above, it shall
immediately suspend the permit and give the permittee notice by certified mail
of the suspension and of a hearing to be held within ten (10) days to determine
whether or not the permit should be revoked. The notice shall contain a
statement of the purported reason for the suspension. If the finance department
determines that there is a good and sufficient reason for revocation of the
permittee's permit, the finance department shall enter an order revoking the
permit effective immediately and notify the permittee by certified mail. (2006
Code)
3-1-11: APPEAL:
Within five (5) days after issuance of a written decision, excluding weekends
and legal holidays, an applicant for a permit or permittee may appeal to the
town manager from the refusal of the finance department to issue a permit under
this chapter or from the revocation of any permit granted in accordance with
this chapter. The town manager may designate a hearing officer to hear the
appeal. (2006 Code)
3-1-12: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter, as amended,
shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate
offense punishable as hereinabove provided. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TAX CODE
SECTION:
3-2-1: Code Adopted
3-2-2: Violation; Penalty
3-2-1: CODE ADOPTED:
That certain document entitled Star Valley tax code, passed annually by the
town council, are declared to be the official tax code of the town and are made
a part of this chapter the same as though said tax code and amendments were
specifically set forth in full herein. Said tax code and amendments are a
public record of the town, three (3) copies are on file in the office of the
town clerk. (2006 Code)
3-2-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of the amendments to the tax
code referenced in section
3-2-1 of this chapter shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor. Each day that
a violation continues shall be a separate offense, punishable as provided in
1-4-1 of this code. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
VIDEO SERVICES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions And Requirements
3-3-2: Video Service License Required
3-3-3: License Fee
3-3-4: Grant of Authority
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Terms used in this chapter are defined in A.R.S. § 9-1401.
   B.   This chapter supplements and carries out the provisions of Arizona
Revised Statutes Title 9, Chapter 13 (A.R.S. § 9-1401 et seq.), which sets
forth the regulations and requirements for providing video service and
constructing and operating a video service network in the Town. (Ord. O20-04,
9-15-2020)
3-3-2: VIDEO SERVICE LICENSE REQUIRED:
A person wishing to provide video service and to construct and operate a video
service network in any service area within the boundaries of the Town shall do
all of the following:
   A.   Submit a completed Application and Affidavit for Uniform Video Service
License.
   B.   Sign and comply with the terms of the Model Uniform Video Service
License Agreement.
   C.   Comply with all applicable provisions of Arizona Revised Statutes Title
9, Chapter 13 (A.R.S. § 9-1401 et seq.). (Ord. O20-04, 9-15-2020)
3-3-3: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   For the privilege of a video service provider to occupy or use, in
whole or in part, any highway within the boundaries of the Town to provide
video service through a video service network, each video service provider
shall pay the town a license fee of five percent (5%) of the gross revenue the
video service provider receives from its subscribers located within the
boundaries of the town.
   B.   The license fee shall be paid quarterly, with the payment for each
calendar quarter due no more than thirty (30) calendar days following the end
of the calendar quarter.
   C.   If any license fee payment is not made on or before the due date
agreement, the video service provider shall pay an interest charge, computed
from the due date, at an annual rate equal to the federal short-term rate
determined pursuant to 26 U.S.C. § 6621(b) plus one and a half percent (1.5%)
during the period for which payment was due. (Ord. O20-04, 9-15-2020)
3-3-4: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
   A.   The local government receipt section of the Application and Affidavit
for Uniform Video Service License may be signed by or for the Town Clerk.
   B.   The Town Manager is authorized to sign the model uniform video service
license agreement on behalf of the town. (Ord. O20-04, 9-15-2020)
CHAPTER 4
SHORT-TERM RENTALS AND VACATION RENTALS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: Definitions
3-4-3: Permit Required; Penalties
3-4-4: Emergency Point Of Contact Requirements; Penalties
3-4-5: Compliance With The Law; Prohibited Uses
3-4-6: Neighbor Notification Required
3-4-7: Advertisement Requirements
3-4-8: Posting On The Property Required
3-4-9: Insurance Required
3-4-10: Background Checks Required
3-4-11: Permit Suspensions
3-4-12: Enhanced Penalties
3-4-13: Appeals
3-4-14: Judicial Relief
3-4-15: Severability
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community of the Town by enacting reasonable regulations for short-term rentals
and vacation rentals. These regulations are in addition to other codes of the
Town. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
In this Chapter, unless the context or definitions in A.R.S. § 9-500.39
indicate otherwise, the following terms or phrases are defined as follows:
ADVERTISEMENT: Any method of soliciting the use of property for vacation rental purposes.
APPLICANT:     The owner or owner’s designee who applies with the Town for a permit or renewal
               of a permit.
DAYS:          Calendar days unless stated otherwise.
DESIGNEE and   Are interchangeable for purposes of this Chapter and mean any person or persons
AGENT:         with the charge, care, or control of any property, dwelling unit, or portion
               thereof. “Designee” includes the “emergency point of contact.”
EMERGENCY      The owner or individual designated by the owner to: (i) serve as the local
POINT OF       twenty-four (24) hour emergency point of contact for the vacation rental; and
CONTACT:       (ii) respond to complaints and emergencies relating to the vacation rental in a
               timely manner as required by this Chapter.
               The written notice provided by the owner to each single-family residential
               property adjacent to the vacation rental property, directly across from the
NEIGHBOR       vacation rental property, and diagonally across the street of the vacation
NOTIFICATION:  rental property that includes the valid permit number issued by the Town, the
               physical address of the vacation rental, and the name, address, and twenty-four
               (24) hour telephone number of the emergency point of contact.
NONRESIDENTIAL Any use that is not permitted in a residential zoning district pursuant to a
USE:           Town zoning ordinance.
ONLINE LODGING Has the same meaning prescribed in A.R.S. § 42-5076.
MARKETPLACE:
               Any person who, alone or with others, has title or interest in a property,
               dwelling unit, or portion thereof, with or without accompanying actual
OWNER:         possession thereof, and includes any person who as agent, executor,
               administrator, trustee, or guardian has charge, care, or control of any
               property, dwelling unit, or portion thereof.
PERMIT:        Authorization by the Town to operate a vacation rental in accordance with this
               Chapter.
               An individual, public entity, firm, corporation, partnership, limited liability
PERSON:        company, trust, association, or any other business entity or juridical person,
               whether operating on a for-profit or nonprofit basis.
               Are interchangeable for purposes of this Chapter and mean any individually or
               collectively owned single-family or one-to-four-family house or dwelling unit,
               or any unit or group of units in a condominium or cooperative, that is also a
SHORT-TERM     transient public lodging establishment or owner-occupied residential home
RENTAL and     offered for transient use. “Vacation rental” does not include:
VACATION       A.   Accommodations or property that is classified for property taxation under
RENTAL:        A.R.S. § 42-12001; or
               B.   Any unit that is used for any nonresidential use, including a special event
               that would otherwise require a permit, retail, restaurant, banquet space, or
               other similar use.
TIMELY MANNER: Responding to complaints and emergencies in person, by phone, or by email within
               the timeframe required by public safety personnel.
TRANSACTION
PRIVILEGE TAX  The license issued by the State of Arizona pursuant to A.R.S., Title 42.
LICENSE:
TRANSIENT:     Has the same meaning prescribed in A.R.S. § 42-5070. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
 
3-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED; PENALTIES:
   A.   Permit required. Prior to use of a property as a vacation rental, the
owner of shall obtain an annual vacation rental permit from the Town. Renting,
or offering for rent, a vacation rental without complying with the permit
requirement in this Section 3-4-3 is prohibited.
   B.   Permit applications. The owner of a proposed vacation rental shall
submit to the Town a permit application on a form furnished by the Town. The
permit application shall be signed by the applicant and shall contain the
following minimum information, which shall be made publicly available:
      1.   The physical address of the residential property proposed to be used
as a vacation rental.
      2.   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner for which the
vacation rental registration certificate is to be issued. If the property owner
is an entity, the legal name of the entity and its statutory agent.
      3.   The name, address, and telephone number of each designee of the
owner, if any.
      4.   The full name, address, and twenty-four (24) hour telephone number
of the individual who will serve as the emergency point of contact.
      5.   Proof of a valid transaction privilege tax license.
      6.   Acknowledgment by the owner of an agreement to comply with all
applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances, including the requirement that
the owner and each designee shall not be a registered sex offender, been
convicted of any felony act that resulted in death or serious physical injury,
or been convicted of any felony use of a deadly weapon within the past five
years.
      7.   Attestation of compliance with the notification required in this
Chapter.
      8.   Evidence of liability insurance appropriate to cover the vacation
rental in the aggregate of at least $500,000 or evidence that each vacation
rental transaction will be provided through a platform that provides equal or
greater primary liability insurance coverage for the vacation rental.
      9.   Evidence the vacation rental is registered with Gila County
Assessor’s Office in accordance with A.R.S. § 33-1902.
      10.   If the applicant is an individual, proof of lawful presence in the
United States in accordance with A.R.S. §§ 1-502 and 41-1080.
   C.   Permit fee. Every application, including any renewal application, for a
vacation rental permit under this Chapter shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee of $100 per annum.
   D.   Issuance; reasons for denial. The Town shall issue or deny the permit
within seven (7) business days after receipt of a complete application, except
that the Town may deny issuance of a permit for any of the following reasons:
      1.   The applicant failed to provide the information required under
subsection B.;
      2.   The applicant failed to pay the permit fee required under subsection
C.;
      3.   The applicant provided false information;
      4.   The owner or designee of the owner: (i) is a registered sex
offender; (ii) has been convicted of any felony act that resulted in death or
serious physical injury; or (iii) has been convicted of any felony use of a
deadly weapon within five (5) years of submitting the application; or
      5.   At the time of application, the owner has a suspended permit for the
same vacation rental or any of the following applies: (a) one violation at the
vacation rental that resulted in or constituted any of the offenses described
in Section
3-4-12; or (b) three violations of this Chapter at the vacation rental within a
twelve (12) month period, not including an aesthetic, solid waste disposal or
vehicle parking violation that is not also a serious threat to public health
and safety.
   E.    Notice of denial; appeal. The Town manager or designee shall give
notice of the denial of an application to the applicant by mailing the notice
to applicant at the address listed on the application. The notice of the denial
shall inform the applicant of the right to appeal the denial as provided for in
Section
3-4-13.
   F.   Maintaining Accurate Information; Violations. All applicants and
persons holding permits issued pursuant to this Chapter shall give prior
written notice to the Town Manager or designee of any material change in
information submitted in connection with an application for a permit or renewal
of a permit. The notice shall be provided to the Town Manager not less than ten
(10) days prior to the effective date of the change. Any information required
for an application under this Section 3-4-3 is deemed to be material for
purposes of this Section 3-4-3. A violation of this subsection is a civil
offense.
   G.   Term of Permit; Renewal application. All permits issued under this
Chapter shall be valid for a period of one (1) year from the date of their
issuance unless suspended or revoked. Except where the Town has received a new
application along with the requisite fees, it shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a vacation rental after the expiration date recorded upon the face
of the vacation rental permit.
   H.   Operating Without a Permit; Penalties. A vacation rental that fails to
apply for a permit or license within thirty (30) days of the permit application
being made available by the Town shall immediately cease operations. In
addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Town Code, the Town may impose a
civil penalty of up to $1,000 per month against the owner if the owner or
owner’s designee fails to apply for permit within 30 days of receiving the
written notice of violation from the Town. Representations or advertisements
including online listings that reference the property, house or dwelling unit
location within the Town is prima facie evidence that a vacation rental is
operating in the Town.
   I.   Non-transferable. No permit shall be transferable either as to location
or as to person.
   J.   Implementation. The Town Manager or designee shall develop the
necessary forms and/or database necessary to implement this Section 3-4-3.
(Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-4: EMERGENCY POINT OF CONTACT REQUIREMENTS; PENALTIES:
   A.   Emergency Responses; Violations. When requested by a police officer,
the owner or emergency point of contact whose name appears on the permit
application must be on the vacation rental premises, or be available over the
phone or text, within sixty (60) minutes of the request.
   B.   Non-emergency Responses; Violations. The owner or emergency point of
contact shall respond to all other complaints relating to the vacation rental
in person, over the phone, by e-mail, or by text within twenty-four (24) hours
of the request.
   C.   Maintaining Accurate Emergency Information. All applicants and persons
holding permits issued pursuant to this Chapter shall give prior written notice
to the Town Manager or designee of any change to the contact information
provided to the Town for the emergency point of contact. The notice shall be
provided to the Town Manager not less than ten (10) days prior to the effective
date of the change.
   D.   Violations. In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Town Code,
a violation of this Section shall be a civil offense.
   E.   Penalties. In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Town Code,
an owner shall be subject to civil penalties of up to $1,000 for every thirty
(30) days the owner fails to provide notice to the Town as required under this
subsection. Before imposing the initial civil penalty, the Town shall provide
thirty (30) days’ notice to the owner by mailing a notice of violation to the
owner’s mailing address that was provided to the Town. The notice of the
violation shall inform the applicant of the right to appeal the denial as
provided for in Section
3-4-13. Notwithstanding the date of the notice of violation, the date for
calculating the penalties shall be the first day the vacation rental is
occupied following the owner’s failure to provide the notice to the Town
regarding the change. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-5: COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW; PROHIBITED USES:
   A.   A vacation rental shall comply with the federal, state, and local laws,
including laws relating to public health and safety, sanitation, solid waste,
hazardous waste, tax privilege licensing, property tax registration, traffic
control, pollution control, noise, property maintenance, and nuisance
abatement.
   B.   No person or entity shall operate a vacation rental in violation of
this Chapter or other law. In addition, the use of a vacation rental property
for any of the following uses or purposes is strictly prohibited:
      1.   Any nonresidential use;
      2.   Holding a special event that requires a permit or license pursuant
to a city or town ordinance or state law or rule;
      3.   Operating a retail business, restaurant, event center, banquet hall
or similar use;
      4.   Housing sex offenders;
      5.   Operating or maintaining a sober living home;
      6.   Selling liquor, illegal drugs, or pornography;
      7.   Operating a nude or topless dancing;
      8.   Obscenity;
      9.   Adult-oriented business; or
      10.   Any other use prohibited by A.R.S. § 9-500.39 or the Town code.
   C.   A vacation rental lacking a valid transaction privilege tax license
issued by the State of Arizona shall not be rented or offered for rent.
   D.   No person or entity may receive payment or accept a fee, directly or
indirectly, for facilitating the rental of a vacation rental operating in
violation of this Code or other law.
   E.   In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Town Code, any person
who causes, allows, facilitates, aides, or abets any violation of this Chapter
shall be subject to a civil offense.
   F.   The failure of any designee to comply with this Chapter shall not
relieve the owner of liability under this Chapter. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-6: NEIGHBOR NOTIFICATION REQUIRED:
   A.   Neighbor notification. Prior to offering a vacation rental for rent for
the first time, the owner or designee shall provide neighbor notification to
each single-family residential property adjacent to the vacation rental
property, directly across from the vacation rental property, and diagonally
across the street of the vacation rental property. The neighbor notification
shall be provided in writing in the form required by the Town and shall include
the following minimum information:
      1.   The permit number issued by the Town;
      2.   The physical address of the vacation rental; and
      3.   The name, physical address, email address, and twenty-four (24) hour
telephone number of the emergency point of contact.
   B.   Additional neighbor notification required. Any change to the
information provided under Subsection A shall require additional neighbor
notification by the owner or designee not later than five (5) days prior to
each change. The additional notification shall be provided in the manner
required by Section A.
   C.   Attestation. At the time of the application, the owner or designee
shall provide to the Town an attestation of compliance with the neighbor
notification required by this Section 3-4-6.
   D.   Violations. In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Town Code,
a violation of this Section 3-4-6 shall be a civil offense. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-
2023)
3-4-7: ADVERTISEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required Disclosure. To protect the peace, health, safety, and general
welfare of the Town’s residents and visitors, the owner or owner’s designee
shall be responsible for displaying the permit number issued by the Town on
each advertisement for such vacation rental.
   B.   Violations. In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Town Code,
a violation of this Section shall be a civil offense. Each advertisement in
violation of this Section 3-4-7 shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord.
O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-8: POSTING ON THE PROPERTY REQUIRED.
   A.   Posting at the Vacation Rental. The owner of the vacation rental must
display the name, phone number, and email address of the owner, designee, and
emergency point of contact in a conspicuous place within ten (10) feet of the
primary entrance of the vacation rental.
   B.   Failure to Comply. In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the
Town Code, a violation of this Section 3-4-8 shall be a civil offense. Each day
a vacation rental does not display the information required by this Section 3-
4-8 shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-9: INSURANCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required insurance. Prior to offering or renting a vacation rental for
rent for the first time, liability insurance appropriate to cover the vacation
rental in the aggregate of at least $500,000 shall be provided by the owner or
the online marketplace platform.
   B.   Proof of insurance. Proof of the required liability insurance coverage
shall be provided to the Town no later than ten (10) days prior to offering or
renting the vacation rental for rent for the first time.
   C.   Violation. In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Town Code,
a violation of this Section 3-4-9 shall be a civil offense. Each day a vacation
rental lacks the insurance required by this Section 3-4-9 shall constitute a
separate violation. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-10: BACKGROUND CHECKS REQUIRED:
   A.   No sex offender shall be permitted to rent or occupy the vacation
rental. Owners who allow a sex offender at the vacation rental shall be found
in violation of this Section 3-4-10.
   B.   Within twenty-four (24) hours of every booking, a sex offender
background check on each guest shall be conducted by the owner or by the online
lodging marketplace on which the vacation rental is advertised. The owner shall
demonstrate compliance with this requirement by retaining a full copy of each
background check for a minimum of twelve (12) months after the booking date and
providing the copy to the Town upon a request by a police officer.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Town Code, any person
who violates this Section 3-4-10 shall be subject to a civil offense.
   D.   The failure of an online lodging marketplace to conduct a background
check shall not relieve the owner of liability under this Section 3-4-10. (Ord.
O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-11: PERMIT SUSPENSIONS.
   A.   Permit suspensions. The Town may initiate an administrative process to
suspend a vacation rental permit for a period of up to twelve (12) months for
any of the following:
      1.   Three verified violations of this Chapter within a twelve (12) month
period, not including any such violation based on an aesthetic, solid waste
disposal or vehicle parking violation that is not also a serious threat to
public health and safety.
      2.   One verified violation that results in or constitutes any of the
following:
         a.   A felony offense committed at or in the vicinity of a vacation
rental by the owner of the vacation rental or by the owner’s designee;
         b.   A serious physical injury or wrongful death at or related to a
vacation rental resulting from the knowing, intentional or reckless conduct of
the owner of the vacation rental or the owner’s designee;
         c.   The owner of the vacation rental or the owner’s designee
knowingly or intentionally housing a sex offender, allowing offenses related to
adult-oriented businesses, sexual offenses, or prostitution, or operating or
maintaining a sober living home; or
         d.   The owner of the vacation rental or the owner’s designee
knowingly or intentionally allowing the use of a vacation rental for a special
event that would otherwise require a permit or license pursuant to the Town
code or a state law or rule or for a retail, restaurant, banquet space or other
similar use.
   B.   Appeals. A decision to suspend a permit may be appealed by the owner as
set forth in Section
3-4-13. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-12: ENHANCED PENALTIES.
   A.   The remedies in this Chapter are cumulative and the Town may proceed
under one or more such remedies.
   B.   In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Town Code, and
notwithstanding any other law, the Town may impose a civil penalty of the
following amounts against an owner if the owner causes, allows, facilitates,
aides, or abets a verified violation of any provision of this Chapter or fails
to perform any act or duty required by this Chapter, related to the same
vacation rental property within the same twelve-month period:
      1.   Up to $500 or up to an amount equal to one night’s rent for the
vacation rental as advertised, whichever is greater, for the first violation.
      2.   Up to $1,000 or up to an amount equal to two nights’ rent for the
vacation rental as advertised, whichever is greater, for the second violation.
      3.   Up to $3,500 or up to an amount equal to three nights’ rent for the
vacation rental as advertised, whichever is greater, for a third and any
subsequent violation.
If multiple violations arise out of the same response to an incident at a
vacation rental, those violations are considered one violation for the purpose
of assessing civil penalties.
   C.   In addition to any other penalty pursuant to the Code, any property
that operates as a vacation rental and fails to apply for vacation rental
permit in accordance with this Chapter within thirty (30) days of the
application process being made available by the Town, must cease operations
immediately. In addition to any fines imposed pursuant to this Section 3-4-12,
the Town may impose a civil penalty of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000) per
month against the owner if the owner or owner’s designee fails to apply within
thirty (30) days of receiving written notice of the failure to comply with this
Chapter. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
3-4-13: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person aggrieved by any decision with respect to the denial of or a
refusal to issue a vacation rental permit, the suspension of a vacation rental
permit, or a penalty imposed pursuant to this Chapter may appeal the decision
by filing a written notice of appeal with the Town Manager no later than thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision letter. The notice of appeal shall be
on a form approved by the Town.
   B.   An appeal under this Section 3-4-13 does not operate as a stay of the
permit suspension.
   C.   This Section 3-4-13 is not applicable to judicial actions brought
pursuant to Section
3-4-14 or to penalties including fines imposed by a court. (Ord. O23-01, 1-17-
2023)
3-4-14: JUDICIAL RELIEF.
   A.   Notwithstanding Section
3-4-11, any attempted or completed felony act, arising from the occupancy or
use of a vacation rental that results in a death, or actual or attempted
serious physical injury, shall be grounds for judicial relief in the form of a
suspension of the property’s use as a vacation rental for a period that shall
not exceed twelve (12) months.
   B.   The Town attorney may initiate proceedings in the Town court or other
court of competent jurisdiction to enforce this Section 3-4-14. (Ord. O23-01,
1-17-2023)
3-4-15: SEVERABILITY:
In the event any section or provision of this Chapter shall be declared by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of this Chapter as a whole or any part
thereof other than the part so declared to be invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. O23-01, 1-17-2023)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
4-1-1: Authority
4-1-1: AUTHORITY:
The Hellsgate Fire District oversees the fire regulations for the town. (2006
Code; amd. Ord. O20-06, 12-15-2020)
CHAPTER 2
BURNING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Permit Required
4-2-2: Location Restriction
4-2-3: Attendance Of Open Fires
4-2-4: Prohibition Of Fires
4-2-5: Kindling Fire On Land Of Others
4-2-6: Definitions
4-2-7: Exceptions
4-2-8: Penalty And Enforcement
4-2-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize any
such fire to be kindled or maintained on or in any public street, alley, road
or other public ground without a permit or other proper authorization and in
compliance with applicable restrictions, permits and approvals from the
Hellsgate Fire District. During construction or demolition of buildings or
structures, no waste materials or rubbish shall be disposed of by burning on
the premises or in the immediate vicinity without having obtained a permit or
other proper authorization. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. O20-06, 12-15-2020)
4-2-2: LOCATION RESTRICTION:
No person shall kindle or maintain any bonfire or rubbish fire or authorize any
such fire to be kindled or maintained on any private land, except as provided
for by state law and in compliance with applicable restrictions, permits and
approvals from the Hellsgate Fire District and unless the location is not less
than fifty feet (50') from any structure and adequate provision is made to
prevent fire from spreading to within fifty feet (50') of any structure, or the
fire is contained in an approved enclosure located safely not less than fifteen
feet (15') from any structure. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. O20-06, 12-15-2020)
4-2-3: ATTENDANCE OF OPEN FIRES:
Bonfires and rubbish fires shall be constantly attended by a competent person
until such fire is extinguished. This person shall have a garden hose connected
to the water supply or other fire extinguishing equipment readily available for
use. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. O20-06, 12-15-2020)
4-2-4: PROHIBITION OF FIRES:
   A.   The proper authority of the Hellsgate Fire District may prohibit any
open outdoor fire when atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make such
fires hazardous.
   B.   At any time when the United States Department of Agriculture, United
States Forest Service (USFS), issues an order under Title 36, Section 261.52 of
the Code of Federal Regulations placing Stage II (Elevated) or greater
restrictions on fires within the Tonto National Forest either by designated
Ranger District or the Tonto National Forest as a whole, it shall be prohibited
and unlawful for any person to build, maintain, attend, ignite, or use an open
outdoor fire, bonfire, campfire or fireworks, in the Town of Star Valley except
as provided herein. (Ord. O 14-01, 5-6-2014; amd. Ord. O20-06, 12-15-2020)
4-2-5: KINDLING FIRE ON LAND OF OTHERS:
No person shall kindle a fire upon the land of another without permission of
the owner thereof or his agent. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. O20-06, 12-15-2020)
4-2-6: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter:
 
           A fixed or portable device where food is cooked on a metal frame over a
           fire fueled solely by liquid petroleum or LPG fuels or other fuel that can
BARBECUE:  be turned on and off. Such devices can only be used in an area that is
           barren or cleared of all overhead and surrounding flammable materials
           within three feet (3').
BONFIRE:   A fire built outdoors for burning rubbish, waste material, or refuse.
           A fire not within any building, mobile home, or living accommodation which
           is used for cooking, personal warmth, lighting, ceremony, or aesthetic
CAMPFIRE:  purposes where material burned is contained in such a manner as to prevent
           fire spread and is no greater than forty-eight inches (48") across at the
           greatest point.
           Any combustible or explosive composition, substance or combination of
           substances, or any article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible
FIREWORKS: or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation,
           that is a consumer firework or display firework as defined by A.R.S. § 36-
           1601 (3)a.
OPEN       A fire where the products of combustion are emitted directly into the
OUTDOOR    ambient air without passing through a stack or chimney. An open outdoor
FIRE:      fire includes burning in a burn-barrel. (Ord. O20-06, 12-15-2020)
 
4-2-7: EXCEPTIONS:
The following fires are excepted from the provision of these restrictions:
   A.   Fires used only for cooking of food conducted on a barbecue: a fixed or
portable device where food is cooked on a metal frame over a fire fueled solely
by liquid petroleum or LPG fuels or other fuel that can be turned on and off.
Such devices can only be used in an area that is barren or cleared of all
overhead and surrounding flammable materials within three feet (3').
   B.   Any fire set or permitted by any public officer in the performance of
official duty, if such fire is set or permission given for the purpose of weed
abatement, the prevention of fire hazard, the control of wildfire or for
instruction in the methods of firefighting. (Ord. O20-06, 12-15-2020)
4-2-8: PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person found violating any of the provisions of this chapter, as
amended, shall be liable for the imposition of a civil sanction not to exceed
one hundred and fifty dollars ($150.00) for the first offense and three hundred
dollars ($300.00) for each successive offense. A third violation will be
considered a class one misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation continues after a citation for
the violation has been issued constitutes a separate violation.
   B.   By enforcing this chapter, the town undertakes only to promote the
general welfare and health of the community. It does not assume, nor does it
impose on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is
liable in money damages to any person claiming injury from such breach. (Ord. O
14-01, 5-6-2014; amd. Ord. O20-06, 12-15-2020)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCE CONTROL AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Purpose And Scope
4-3-2: Administration And Enforcement
4-3-3: Definitions
4-3-4: Public Nuisances
4-3-5: Premises Housing Animals
4-3-6: Litter Control
4-3-7: Maintenance Of Land, Buildings And Structures
4-3-8: Violations
4-3-9: Correction Of Violations
4-3-10: Joint And Several Liability
4-3-11: Administrative Abatement
4-3-12: Penalty
4-3-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Health And Welfare: The purpose of this chapter is to promote the
health, safety, economic, aesthetic and general welfare of the citizens of the
town, and to protect neighborhoods against nuisances, blight and deterioration
by establishing requirements for maintenance of all buildings and structures of
whatever kind, and by establishing requirements for the maintenance of all
land, whether improved or unimproved.
   B.   Applicability: This chapter shall apply to all buildings, structures
and lands within the town without regard to the use thereof or the date of
construction or alteration of any building or structure. (2006 Code)
4-3-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Town Manager: The town manager or his delegates shall implement,
administer and enforce this chapter, and may establish rules, regulations and
procedures to implement, administer and enforce this chapter.
   B.   Entry Onto Private Property: At any time, the town manager may:
      1.   Inspect, from outside the boundaries of a property, every portion of
the property which is within plain view;
      2.   Inspect any portion of a property with the consent of a person who
either owns the property or has authority to provide such consent;
      3.   Enter the exterior portion of a property, and/or make known his
presence at the entrance to a building or structure, for the purpose of
locating or obtaining information or permission from, the person in control of
the property;
      4.   Enter a property in the manner provided in a search warrant or other
court order;
      5.   Enter a property in any other lawful manner. (2006 Code)
4-3-3: DEFINITIONS:
In this chapter:
ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLE: Any vehicle without the current required license
plate and tag; or that is inoperable, stripped, scrapped, junked, discarded,
dismantled or wrecked.
AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE: A garbage or debris storage and collection receptacle
required or authorized by the town.
BLIGHT OR BLIGHTED: Unsightly conditions, including, but not limited to, the
accumulation of debris or garbage; any building structure characterized by
holes, rot, collapse, crumbling or rusting; the presence of any washing machine
or other similar household appliance which is located out of doors at a place
which is within public view; and any other similar condition of disrepair,
dilapidation or deterioration.
BUILDING: Any structure having enclosed space and a roof for the housing and/or
enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.
DEBRIS: All combustible and noncombustible solid waste, whether or not subject
to decay, including, but not limited to, abandoned or junked vehicle or part
thereof, industrial waste, junk, furniture part, stove, sink, household
fixture, refrigerator, vehicle part, mattress, broken asphalt, broken tile,
broken brick, broken concrete, rubbish, dead animal, cigarette, trash, broken
glass, refuse, ash, abandoned, broken or neglected equipment, a scattering or
deposit of anything of little or no apparent economic value, or other material
which creates an unsightly and unsafe condition.
DETERIORATED OR DETERIORATION: An excessive lowering in the quality of the
condition or appearance of a building or structure or any part thereof,
characterized by the process of decay or degeneration, holes, peeling paint,
rot, collapse, crumbling, rusting, vermin infestation, exposed electric wiring,
leaking or inoperable plumbing, unsafe conditions or crumbling asphalt or
concrete; or by being used by one or more persons for criminal activity; or by
any other evidence of physical decay, excessive neglect or lack of maintenance.
EXTERIOR SURFACE: The outside surfaces of a building or structure and any
attachments thereto, including, but not limited to, walls, roofs, doors,
windows, gutters, porches, patios and chimneys.
GARBAGE: Any spoiled or discarded animal or vegetable material resulting from
the handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of food for humans or
animals, as well as other organic waste material subject to rapid
decomposition, which is not handled or disposed of properly.
GRAFFITI: Any drawing or inscription that degrades the appearance of property
which is carved, drawn or painted on a surface in a place which can be seen by
the public.
INFESTATION: The apparent presence of insects, rodents or other pests.
LAND: All land in the town, whether improved or unimproved, including, but not
limited to vacant lots.
MAJOR REPAIR: The repair of damage to the body of any vehicle, or the removal
from any vehicle of a major portion thereof, including, but not limited to, the
differential, transmission, head, engine block, door, fender, body panel, hood
or other similar part.
OWNS: A person who owns, leases, rents, occupies, controls or has the right to
control any land, building or structure.
PERSON: A human being, enterprise, corporation, association, partnership, firm,
society or other similar group or organization.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any street, sidewalk, alley or other public right of way and any
public park, square, space, ground or building.
STREET: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way, including,
but not limited to, every road, alley, highway, right of way and easement, any
part of which is open to use for pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground, including, but not limited to, a driveway, sidewalk, walkway, exterior
step, railing, fence or wall.
TOWN MANAGER: The town manager, his delegates, or any peace officer.
VEGETATION: Any plant growth, whether living or dead, including, but not
limited to, grass, weeds, bushes, cactus and trees.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn upon a street, upon water or stationary rails or tracks.
(2006 Code)
4-3-4: PUBLIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Defined: Public nuisance means any of the following acts, omissions,
conditions or things existing at any place in the town:
      1.   Privy, Vault, Pit: A privy, vault, cesspool, sump, pit or like place
which is not securely protected from insects or rodents, or which is foul or
malodorous;
      2.   Manure: Animal manure in any quantity which is not securely
protected from insects, rodents and the elements, except for animal manure used
on any farm, garden or ranch in such a manner and for such purposes as are
compatible with reasonable and customary methods of good husbandry;
      3.   Junk Yards: Except where permitted by the zoning title 1 , using or
maintaining any place for a junk yard or dumping ground; or for the wrecking,
disassembling, major repair or rebuilding of any vehicle, farm equipment or
machinery of any kind; or for the storing or leaving of any abandoned or junked
vehicle, including parts thereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, major repair
or rebuilding of one vehicle at a time is allowed; provided, that the work is
performed in a place which is not visible from the boundaries of the parcel of
land. When an activity which would otherwise be prohibited by this subsection
is nevertheless lawfully conducted on a parcel of property in accordance with
the zoning title, at all times every person who owns the parcel must conduct
the activity, and must keep all of the items described in this subsection, in a
place which is not visible from outside the boundaries of the parcel on which
the activity is lawfully conducted;
      4.   Offensive Substances: Any quantity of putrid, decayed, rotten,
unsound or unwholesome bone, meat, hide, skin, dead animal, fish, fowl or
animal matter, butcher's trimmings, waste vegetation, garbage, urine, feces,
sewage or other similarly offensive substance; except for the temporary
retention of such items in an authorized receptacle in a manner authorized by
law;
      5.   Excavations: Any unmarked or unprotected excavation, pit, well or
hole which poses a substantial risk of injury to any person.
         a.   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a well, cellar, pit or
other excavation of more than two feet (2') in depth on any unenclosed lot,
without substantial curbing, covering or protection.
      6.   Unlocked Containers: Leaving or permitting to remain out of doors at
any place, or within any unoccupied or abandoned building or structure, any
icebox, refrigerator or other container which has an attached door or lid
designed or intended to be airtight and a locking device which may not be
released from the inside;
      7.   Obstructions: Creating or maintaining any condition that obstructs
or renders dangerous the use or passage of any public property such as parks,
streams, watercourses, sidewalks, squares, alleys, streets or easements, or
which interferes with, obstructs or blocks the vision of any motorist;
      8.   Buildings; Structures: Any building or structure which is partially
destroyed, structurally unsound, left in a state of partial construction or
abandoned;
      9.   Fire Conditions: Any condition which substantially increases the
risk of fire;
      10.   Infestations: Any infestation or any condition which poses a
substantial risk of attracting or concealing insects, rodents, vermin, wild
animals, scorpions or poisonous snakes, or which increases the likelihood of
infestation;
      11.   Health And Safety Risks: Any condition which poses a substantial
risk to the health or safety of any person or of the public, including, but not
limited to, an unsafe, unsanitary or structurally unsound condition;
      12.   Conditions Multiplying Flies: No owner, tenant or occupant of any
premises within the town shall suffer, permit or have upon such premises any
cesspool, vault, pit or like place; or animal manure, garbage, trash, litter,
rags or any other thing in which flies may breed or multiply, unless the same
shall be protected as to prevent the attraction, breeding and multiplying of
flies;
      13.   Dangerous Structures: It is unlawful for any person to maintain or
allow any signs, billboards, awnings and other similar structures over or near
streets, sidewalks, public grounds or places frequented by the public, so
situated or constructed as to endanger the public safety.
   B.   Prohibited: Every person who owns any property in the town shall keep
and maintain the property free of every public nuisance. No person shall cause,
maintain, allow, suffer or permit the existence of a public nuisance anywhere
in the town. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
4-3-5: PREMISES HOUSING ANIMALS:
The premises upon which fowl, rodents, cattle, horses, mules, sheep or goats
are kept shall always be sanitary and subject to inspection and regulation by
the town. (2006 Code)
4-3-6: LITTER CONTROL:
   A.   Littering Unlawful: No person shall throw, deposit or bury any garbage
or debris on any property within the town.
   B.   Property Of Owner: Every person who owns property within the town shall
at all times keep and maintain the property free of garbage and debris, except
garbage or debris contained within an authorized receptacle.
   C.   Area Adjacent: Every person who owns any property in the town shall at
all times keep and maintain every sidewalk, landscape area, street, alley,
easement, right of way or other similar area adjacent to the property free of
garbage and debris, except garbage or debris contained within an authorized
receptacle.
   D.   Transporting: No person shall transport any materials, equipment,
appliances, furniture, garbage or debris within the town unless the vehicle
used is loaded in a manner which prevents material contained within or loaded
upon the vehicle, or any part thereof, from blowing, falling or being deposited
upon any street, alley or other public place. (2006 Code)
4-3-7: MAINTENANCE OF LAND, BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
Every person who owns any land, building or structure in the town shall at all
times keep and maintain the land, building or structure in a manner which is
free of:
   A.   Deterioration, blight, debris and garbage;
   B.   Poison oak, poison ivy, any noxious or toxic weed, any uncultivated or
overgrown plant, any dry or dead vegetation or any grass greater than thirty
inches (30") in height;
   C.   Graffiti;
   D.   Every condition which poses a risk to the health and safety of the
public or of any person. (2006 Code)
4-3-8: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Civil/Criminal:
      1.   Every person who owns any land, building or structure in the town is
responsible for every violation of this chapter which exists with respect to
such land, building or structure. Violations are subject to either criminal or
civil prosecution.
      2.   Every person who owns any land, building or structure in the town,
and who intentionally, knowingly, willfully or recklessly causes, allows,
suffers or permits a violation of this chapter to exist with respect to such
land, building or structure commits a class one misdemeanor and/or a civil
violation of the Town Code.
      3.   If the owner or other responsible party fails to comply with the
notice of violation, a civil or criminal action to enforce the provision of
this chapter may be commenced and a summons shall be issued in accordance with
the procedures set forth in the Arizona Revised Statutes and applicable town
ordinances. Jurisdiction of proceedings in this chapter shall be in the
municipal court of the town.
      4.   The Town Attorney, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for
filing civil and criminal citations with the municipal court with the following
minimum penalties:
         a.   First offense subject to a civil penalty of not less than three
hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00);
         b.   Second offense during a 12-consecutive-month period: civil
penalty of not less than six hundred dollars ($600.00);
         c.   Third offense and subsequent offenses within 24 months of first
offense is a class one misdemeanor. Conviction carries a maximum six (6) months
in jail and a maximum fine of two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) and
other criminal penalties as a result of a class one misdemeanor conviction.
      5.   The court shall not suspend the imposition of the minimum sanction
unless the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the person has
corrected every violation for which he was found responsible, and that the
person is in compliance with this chapter. In that event, the court may, in its
discretion, suspend all but one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the sanction upon
such conditions as the court deems just.
      6.   The 12-month period shall be calculated from the dates the
violations are committed. The owner or responsible party shall receive the
progressively higher civil penalty upon a finding of responsibility for any
violation of this chapter committed within 12 months of the commission of
another violation for which the owner or responsible party was found
responsible or was convicted. In no event shall the court reduce the minimum
dollar penalties referenced above. A criminal case shall only be filed after
two (2) successive civil violations have been committed within a 12-
consecutive-month period.
      7.   Every day any violation of any provision of this chapter continues
shall constitute a separate violation or offense. In addition to any civil or
criminal sanction imposed, the municipal court shall assess an additional fine,
not less than $75.00 per day, for each day that a code violation continues past
the date set by the municipal court for compliance or, in the case of a repeat
violation, for each day the repeat violation continues, beginning with the date
the repeat violation is found to have occurred by the code.
      8.   The owner of record, as reflected in the Gila County Assessor’s
Office, may be presumed to be a person having lawful control over the building,
structure or parcel of land that is the subject of the violation. If more than
one (1) person is recorded as the owner of the property, the persons may be
jointly and severally presumed to be the persons having lawful control over the
building, structure or parcel of land.
      9.   Actions Not Exclusive: The town’s election to prosecute a civil or
criminal action to enforce the provisions of this chapter does not limit or
restrict the town’s ability to bring against the defendant any other action
authorized by law, including, but not limited to, an administrative abatement
proceeding. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. O23-02, 3-21-2023)
4-3-9: CORRECTION OF VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Authority: In addition to any civil sanction or criminal penalty, the
court may in its discretion order the defendant to correct the violation by a
specified date, and may order the town to enter the property and correct the
violation if the defendant fails to comply with the court's correction order.
The court may require the defendant to correct the violation as a condition of
suspending a portion of the civil sanction or criminal penalty.
   B.   Recovery Of Costs Incurred By Town:
      1.   For a civil violation of this chapter, if the town corrects a
violation pursuant to this chapter, the town may petition the court to recover
the costs, expenses and attorney fees which the town incurred in correcting the
violation and in bringing the petition for recovery. If the court finds by a
preponderance of the evidence that the town is entitled to recover, the court
may order the defendant to pay to the town the amount of the costs, expenses
and attorney fees reasonably incurred by the town, and may enter judgment in
favor of the town and against the defendant in that amount. The court may make
payment of the judgment a condition of suspending a portion of the civil
sanction.
      2.   For a criminal violation of this chapter, if the town corrects a
violation pursuant to this chapter, the town may petition the court to order
the defendant to pay restitution to the town in the amount of the costs,
expenses and attorney fees which the town incurred in correcting the violation
and in bringing the petition for restitution. The court may, in its discretion,
order the defendant to pay such restitution to the town. The court may make the
payment of restitution a condition of suspending a portion of the criminal
penalty. (2006 Code)
4-3-10: JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY:
   A.   If more than one person owns a particular parcel of property, then all
such persons are jointly and severally liable for every civil violation of this
chapter existing with respect to that parcel.
   B.   In a criminal prosecution for violations of this chapter, it shall not
be a defense that another person is also guilty of a criminal or civil
violation of this chapter. (2006 Code)
4-3-11: ADMINISTRATIVE ABATEMENT:
   A.   Authority: If there is a violation of any provision of this chapter,
the town may proceed with an administrative abatement proceeding as set forth
in this section. Nothing in this chapter shall require the town to proceed
under this section.
   B.   Notice: Notice of a violation under this chapter shall be served either
personally or mailed to the owner and to the occupant or lessee, if any, at
their last known addresses by certified mail, or the address to which the tax
bill for the property was last mailed. If the owner does not reside on such
property, a duplicate notice shall also be sent to him by certified mail at his
last known address. The notice shall contain a statement that unless the person
owning or controlling such property complies therewith within thirty (30) days
from the date such written notice is received, that the town will, at the
expense of the person owning or controlling said property, perform or cause to
be performed the necessary work and that such person may appeal in writing to
the town council within thirty (30) days from the date that the written notice
is received by him and prior to the date of compliance. The notice shall
include a description of the property and the approximate cost to the town if
the person fails to comply with the notice.
   C.   Appeal Of Requirement: Prior to the date set for compliance on the
notice, the owner or person controlling such property may appeal in writing to
the town council from the demand of the town. The town council, or its
delegates, shall hear and determine the same and the decision of said body
shall be final. Said body may either affirm or reverse the decision of the town
or modify the scope of work as required in the notice.
   D.   Refusal To Comply; Cost Assessment: If a person to whom notice, as
aforesaid has been given, or on or before the date of compliance on the notice,
or within such further time as may have been granted on appeal by the town
council or its delegates, fails, neglects or refuses to remove from such
property any or all nuisances, the town manager is authorized and directed to
either cause same to be removed or disposed of at the expense of the owner and
person controlling such property. Upon completion of the work, the town shall
prepare a verified statement of account of the actual costs of such removal or
abatement, the additional inspection costs, labor costs, other incidental
connected costs and associated legal costs, the date the work was completed;
and the street address and/or the legal description of the property on which
said work was done. The town shall mail a duplicate copy of such verified
statement to the person owning and controlling such property.
   E.   Appeal Of Assessment: The owner and/or person controlling such property
shall have thirty (30) days from the date of mailing to appeal in writing to
the town council from the amount of assessment as contained in the verified
statement. If an appeal is not filed with the town council within such thirty
(30) day period, then the amount of the assessment as determined by the town
shall become final and binding. If an appeal is taken, the town council, or its
delegates, shall hear and determine the appeal and may affirm the amount of the
assessment, modify the amount thereof, or determine that no assessment at all
shall be made. The decision of said body shall be final and binding on all
persons.
   F.   Assessment Recorded: If no appeal is taken from the amount of the
assessment, or if an appeal is taken and the town council or its delegate, has
affirmed or modified the amount of the assessment, the original assessment or
the assessment as so modified shall be recorded in the office of the county
recorder and from the date of its recording, shall be a lien on said lot or
tract of land until paid. Such assessments shall be superior to all other
liens, obligations, mortgages or other encumbrances, except liens for general
taxes. A sale of the property to satisfy an assessment obtained under the
provisions of this section shall be made upon judgment of foreclosure and order
of sale. The town shall have the right to bring an action to enforce the
assessment in the superior court of the county in which the property is located
at any time after the recording of the assessment, but failure to enforce the
assessment by such action shall not affect its validity. The recorded
assessment shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of all matters recited
therein and of the regularity of all proceedings prior to the recording
thereof.
   G.   Installment Plans: Assessments that are imposed under this chapter run
against the property until paid and are due and payable in equal annual
installments as follows:
      1.   Assessments of less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be
paid within one year after the assessment is recorded.
      2.   Assessment of five hundred dollars ($500.00) or more but less than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) shall be paid within two (2) years after the
assessment is recorded.
      3.   Assessments of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or more but less
than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) shall be paid within three (3) years
after the assessment is recorded.
      4.   Assessments of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or more but less
than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) shall be paid within six (6) years after
the assessment is recorded.
      5.   Assessments of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or more shall be
paid within ten (10) years after the assessment is recorded.
   H.   Past Due Interest: An assessment that is past due accrues interest at
the rate prescribed by law.
   I.   Prior Assessments: A prior assessment for the purposes provided in this
chapter shall not be a bar to a subsequent assessment or assessments for these
purposes, and any number of assessments on the same lot or tract of land may be
enforced in the same action. (2006 Code)
4-3-12: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter, as amended,
shall be guilty of a civil offense or a class one misdemeanor. Each day that a
violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as hereinabove
described. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
SMOKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Smoking On Town Property Prohibited
4-4-4: Penalty And Enforcement
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
Because the smoking of tobacco and the inhalation of environmental tobacco
smoke (ETS) are dangers to human health and the most prevalent cause of
preventable death, disease, and disability, as well as are annoyances,
inconveniences, discomforts and general health hazards to those who are
involuntarily exposed to such, and in order to serve the public health, safety
and welfare, the declared purpose of this chapter is to protect people from
dangerous, unnecessary and/or involuntary health risks by prohibiting the
smoking of tobacco or any other plant on or in any municipally owned buildings.
(2006 Code)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
SMOKE OR SMOKING: A. Carrying or placing of a lighted cigarette or lighted
cigar or lighted pipe or any other lighted smoking equipment in one's mouth for
inhaling and exhaling smoke or blowing smoke rings.
   B.   Placing of a lighted cigarette or lighted cigar or lighted pipe or any
other lighted smoking equipment in an ashtray or other receptacle, and allowing
smoke to diffuse in the air.
   C.   Carrying or placing of a lighted cigarette or lighted cigar or lighted
pipe or any other lighted smoking equipment in one's hands or any appendage of
devices and allowing smoke to diffuse in the air.
TOWN PROPERTY: All buildings and vehicles owned, leased or occupied by the town
of Star Valley. (2006 Code)
4-4-3: SMOKING ON TOWN PROPERTY PROHIBITED:
No person shall smoke in or on any town property at any time. (2006 Code)
4-4-4: PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable for the imposition of a civil sanction not to exceed twenty five dollars
($25.00) for the first offense and fifty dollars ($50.00) for each successive
offense. A third violation will be considered a class one misdemeanor
punishable by up to six (6) months in jail and a fine of up to two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). Each day a violation continues after a
citation for the violation has been issued constitutes a separate violation.
   B.   By enforcing this chapter, the town undertakes only to promote the
general welfare and health of the community. It does not assume, nor does it
impose on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is
liable in money damages to any person claiming injury from such breach. (2006
Code)
CHAPTER 5
RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA
SECTION:
4-5-1: Purpose
4-5-2: Definitions
4-5-3: Marijuana Prohibited on Public Property
4-5-4: Marijuana Establishment Prohibited
4-5-5: Marijuana Testing Facility Prohibited
4-5-6: Individual's Primary Residence for Personal Use
4-5-7: Violations
4-5-8: Enforcement; Penalties
4-5-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter is adopted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
community. Except as allowed by law for personal, private use, the Town
prohibits the retail sale, cultivation, and manufacturing of marijuana or
marijuana products in the Town. Nothing in this Chapter is intended to promote
or condone the sale, cultivation, manufacture, transport, production,
distribution, possession, or use of marijuana or marijuana products in
violation of any applicable law. (Ord. R21-01, 1-19-2021; amd. Ord. O21-01, 1-
19-2021)
4-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
The below words and phrases, wherever used in this Chapter, shall be construed
as defined in this section unless, clearly from the context, a different
meaning is intended. Words used in the present tense include the future tense,
words in the plural number include the singular number, and words in the
singular number include the plural number.
CHEMICAL       The process of removing a particular component of a mixture from others present,
EXTRACTION:    including removing resinous tetrahydrocannabinol from marijuana.
CHEMICAL       Production of a new particular molecule by adding to, subtracting from, or changing
SYNTHESIS:     the structure of a precursor molecule.
CONSUME,       The act of ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana into the human
CONSUMING, and body.
CONSUMPTION:
CONSUMER:      An individual who is at least twenty-one (21) years of age and who purchases
               marijuana or marijuana products.
CULTIVATE and  To propagate, breed, grow, prepare and package marijuana.
CULTIVATION:
DEPARTMENT:    The State of Arizona Department of Health Services or its successor agency.
DUAL LICENSEE: An entity that holds both a nonprofit medical marijuana dispensary registration and
               a marijuana establishment license.
               A building, greenhouse, or other structure that has:
                  1.   A complete roof enclosure supported by connecting walls that are constructed
               of solid material extending from the ground to the roof;
                  2.   Is secure against unauthorized entry;
                  3.   Has a foundation, slab or equivalent base to which the floor is securely
ENCLOSED AREA: attached; and
                  4.   Meets performance standards ensuring that cultivation and processing
               activities cannot be and are not perceptible from the structure in terms of not
               being visible from public view without using binoculars, aircraft or other optical
               aids and is equipped with a lock or other security device that prevents access by
               minors.
               The process of extracting or separating resin from marijuana to produce or process
EXTRACTION:    any form of marijuana concentrates using water, lipids, gases, solvents, or other
               chemicals or chemical processes.
MANUFACTURE    To compound, blend, extract, infuse or otherwise make or prepare a marijuana
and            product.
MANUFACTURING:
                  1.   All parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, whether growing or not, as
               well as the seeds from the plant, the resin extracted from any part of the plant,
               and every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of the
               plant or its seeds or resin.
MARIJUANA:        2.   Includes cannabis as defined in A.R.S. § 13-3401.
                  3.   Does not include industrial hemp, the fiber produced from the stalks of the
               plant of the genus cannabis, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant,
               sterilized seeds of the plant that are incapable of germination, or the weight of
               any other ingredient combined with marijuana to prepare topical or oral
               administrations, food, drink or other products.
                  1.   Resin extracted from any part of a plant of the genus cannabis and every
               compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of that resin or
MARIJUANA      tetrahydrocannabinol.
CONCENTRATE:      2.   Does not include industrial hemp or the weight of any other ingredient
               combined with cannabis to prepare topical or oral administrations, food, drink or
               other products.
               An entity licensed by the Department to operate all of the following:
                  1.   A single retail location at which the licensee may sell marijuana and
               marijuana products to consumers, cultivate marijuana and manufacture marijuana
               products.
MARIJUANA         2.   A single off-site cultivation location at which the licensee may cultivate
ESTABLISHMENT: marijuana, process marijuana and manufacture marijuana products, but from which
               marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to consumers.
                  3.   A single off-site location at which the licensee may manufacture marijuana
               products and package and store marijuana and marijuana products, but from which
               marijuana and marijuana products may not be transferred or sold to consumers.
MARIJUANA      Marijuana concentrate and products that are composed of marijuana and other
PRODUCTS:      ingredients and that are intended for use or consumption, including edible products,
               ointments, and tinctures.
MARIJUANA      The Department or another entity that is licensed by the Department to analyze the
TESTING        potency of marijuana and test marijuana for harmful contaminants.
FACILITY:
NONPROFIT
MEDICAL        A nonprofit entity as defined in A.R.S. § 36-2801(12).
MARIJUANA
DISPENSARY:
OPEN SPACE:    A public park, public sidewalk, public walkway or public pedestrian thoroughfare.
PERSON:        An individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other entity of
               whatever kind or nature.
PROCESS and    To harvest, dry, cure, trim or separate parts of the marijuana plant.
PROCESSING:
PUBLIC PLACE:  The same meaning prescribed in the Smoke-Free-Arizona Act, A.R.S. § 36-601.01.
               To inhale, exhale, burn, carry or possess any lighted marijuana or lighted marijuana
SMOKE:         products, whether natural or synthetic. (Ord. R21-01, 1-19-2021; amd. Ord. O21-01,
               1-19-2021)
 
4-5-3: MARIJUANA PROHIBITED ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   A.   The use, sale, cultivation, manufacture, production or distribution of
marijuana or marijuana products is prohibited on property that is occupied,
owned, controlled or operated by the Town.
   B.   It is unlawful for an individual to smoke marijuana in a public place
or open space in the town. (Ord. R21-01, 1-19-2021; amd. Ord. O21-01, 1-19-
2021)
4-5-4: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT PROHIBITED:
   A.   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana
establishment is prohibited in the town.
   B.   To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana
establishment by a dual licensee is prohibited in the town. (Ord. R21-01, 1-19-
2021; amd. Ord. O21-01, 1-19-2021)
4-5-5: MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY PROHIBITED:
To the fullest extent allowable by law, the operation of a marijuana testing
facility is prohibited in the Town. (Ord. R21-01, 1-19-2021; amd. Ord. O21-01,
1-19-2021)
4-5-6: INDIVIDUAL'S PRIMARY RESIDENCE FOR PERSONAL USE:
   A.   To the fullest extent allowable by law, marijuana possession,
consumption, processing, manufacturing, transportation, and cultivation is
permitted in a residential zoning district in the Town and is subject to the
following conditions and limitations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any individual who is at least twenty-one
(21) years of age to possess, transport, cultivate or process more than six (6)
marijuana plants.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for two or more individuals who are at least
twenty-one (21) years of age to possess, transport, cultivate or process more
than twelve (12) marijuana plants at the individuals' primary residence.
      3.   Except as provided by A.R.S. § 36-2801 et al. and this Section, it
shall be unlawful for an individual to otherwise cultivate marijuana in a
residential zoning district within the Town limits.
      4.   Individuals shall not process or manufacture marijuana by means of
any liquid or gas other than alcohol, that has a flashpoint below one hundred
(100) degrees Fahrenheit.
      5.   Kitchen, bathrooms, and primary bedroom(s) shall be used for their
intended use and shall not be used primarily for residential marijuana
processing, manufacturing, or cultivation.
      6.   A residence shall not emit dust, fumes, vapors, or odors into the
environment and individuals shall ensure that ventilation, air filtration,
building and design standards are compatible with adjacent uses and the
requirements of adopted building codes of the Town.
      7.   Cultivation shall be limited to a closet, room, greenhouse, or other
enclosed area on the grounds of the residence equipped with a lock or other
security device that prevents access by minors.
      8.   Cultivation shall take place in an area where the marijuana plants
are not visible from public view without using binoculars, aircraft, or other
optical aids. (Ord. R21-01, 1-19-2021; amd. Ord. O21-01, 1-19-2021)
4-5-7: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful and a violation of this chapter for a person to sell,
cultivate, process, manufacture or transport marijuana or marijuana products if
the person fails to meet all the requirements in this chapter or state law,
including the Department's rules.
   B.   Each day any violation of any provision of this chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. R21-01, 1-19-2021; amd. Ord. O21-01,
1-19-2021)
4-5-8: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations of this Chapter are in addition to any other violation
enumerated within the Town ordinances or the Town Code and in no way limits the
penalties, actions or abatement procedures which may be taken by the Town for
any violation of this Chapter, which is also a violation of any other ordinance
or Code provision of the Town or federal or state law. Conviction and
punishment of judgment and civil sanction against any person under this article
shall not relieve such person from the responsibility of correcting prohibited
conditions, or removing prohibited structures or improvements, and shall not
prevent the enforced correction or removal thereof.
   B.   Criminal/Civil Penalty: Violations of any provision of this Chapter
shall be civil code offenses which may be adjudicated and enforced by the Town
Court set forth in Title 1, Chapter 7 (Magistrate Court) of the Town Code or a
class one misdemeanor punishable by not more than six (6) months in jail and a
two thousand five hundred dollar ($2,500.00) fine. (Ord. R21-01, 1-19-2021;
amd. Ord. O21-01, 1-19-2021)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Authority
5-1-1: AUTHORITY:
The regulations for the town shall be enforced by the Payson, Arizona, police
department through June 30, 2009, except for photo enforcement which shall be
enforced by the town of Star Valley police agency (department). Future law
enforcement services beginning July 1, 2009, shall be enforced by the town of
Star Valley police agency (department) or a designated contract agency. (Ord.
O07-18, 12-4-2007)
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Enforcement By Town Animal Enforcement Agent
5-2-3: Public Nuisance
5-2-4: At Large
5-2-5: Dangerous Or Vicious
5-2-6: Wild Animals
5-2-7: Disturbing The Peace
5-2-8: Swine
5-2-9: Diseased Animals
5-2-10: Impoundment
5-2-11: Quarantine Of Biting Animals
5-2-12: Hearing Officer
5-2-13: Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER: The appointed animal control officer of the town, his
designee, temporary independent contractor or any peace officer.
ANIMAL OR ANIMALS: Horses, mules, burros, cattle, goats, sheep, cats, swine,
llamas, ostriches, emus or other livestock, poultry or any other animal that is
susceptible to rabies, except dogs.
AT LARGE: Any dog which is both:
   A.   Off the premises of the owner or on the property of another person
without the consent of that person;
   B.   Not under the direct control and physical custody, restraint by means
of leash, chain, rope or enclosure of the owner or other person responsible for
the dog.
BARKING: The characteristic short, abrupt, explosive, loud, sound or noise
uttered by a dog.
COLLAR: A band, chain, harness or suitable device worn around the neck of the
dog to which a license may be affixed.
CONTROL OF OWNER: An owner or person responsible for the animal has immediate
verbal control or actual physical control of said animal.
DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS: An animal or dog which has a propensity to attack, to
cause injury or otherwise endanger the safety of human beings without
provocation or which has been found to be a vicious animal by a court of
competent authority, which bites, inflicts physical injury on or attacks a
human being, or constitutes a physical threat to other animals.
DOG: A member of the "Canis familiaris" family.
EXCESSIVE: That which goes beyond what is proper, right, or usual; being too
much or too great; immoderate; inordinate.
HEARING OFFICER: That person set forth in section
5-2-12 of this chapter.
OWNER: Any person having a right of possession or custody of a dog, or who
keeps, or knowingly permits, the dog on or about any premises owned or leased
by that person, for more than six (6) consecutive days.
POUND: Any establishment authorized by the town for the confinement,
maintenance, safekeeping and control of dogs that come into custody of the
animal control officer.
REPEATEDLY: More than three (3) times in any thirty (30) day period.
TOWN ANIMAL ENFORCEMENT AGENT: The person responsible for the enforcement of
this chapter.
UNRESTRAINED: Failure to use physical restraint, force or authority in
preventing, suppressing, controlling, or bringing under control.
VACCINATION: An antirabies vaccination using a type of vaccine approved by the
state veterinarian. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. O 09-04, 6-2-2009; Ord. O 09-05, 6-2-
2009)
5-2-2: ENFORCEMENT BY TOWN ANIMAL ENFORCEMENT AGENT:
Enforcement of this chapter shall be by the town animal enforcement agent or
any member of the town animal control, each of whom may exercise all powers
available under law or this chapter in the performance of duty. The town animal
enforcement agent may issue violations of this chapter.
   A.   The town animal enforcement agent shall:
      1.   Enforce the provisions of this chapter, town ordinances adopted
under this chapter and municipal ordinances which the town council has
contracted to enforce.
      2.   Issue citations for the violation of the provisions of this chapter
and municipal ordinances which the town council has contracted to enforce. The
procedure for the issuance of notices to appear shall be as provided for peace
officers in Arizona Revised Statutes section 13-3903, except that the
enforcement agent shall not make an arrest before issuing the notice.
   B.   The issuance of citations pursuant to this section shall be subject to
the provisions of Arizona Revised Statutes section 13-3899.
   C.   The town animal enforcement agent may designate deputies. (Ord. O 09-
05, 6-2-2009)
5-2-3: PUBLIC NUISANCE:
Any animal which does any of the following is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance, and may be impounded by the animal control officer at a cost to be
borne by the owner. It is unlawful for any person to permit such animal or
animals to:
   A.   Molest passersby or passing vehicles;
   B.   Attack other animals;
   C.   Trespass on school grounds;
   D.   Repeatedly be at large;
   E.   Damage public or private property;
   F.   Bark, whine, howl, crow or burrow in an excessive or untimely fashion;
   G.   Repeatedly cause garbage to be thrown about. (2006 Code)
5-2-4: AT LARGE:
   A.   Unlawful: It is unlawful to permit any animal to run at large in the
town. Any such animal may be impounded as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Enclosure Required: Any person who keeps or causes to be kept any
animal (except for cats) within the corporate limits of the town shall keep
such animal in a pen, corral, pasture or similar enclosure to prevent their
roaming at large. No such animal shall be kept within fifty feet (50') of any
occupied structures which is not occupied by the owner.
   C.   Picket Or Tie In Streets: It is unlawful to picket or tie any animal on
any of the streets or rights of way of the town for the purpose of grazing or
feeding if it interferes with the safe passage of pedestrians or vehicles.
   D.   Impounding Authority: Any animal at large may be impounded by the
animal control officer.
   E.   Liability For Damages: The owner of an animal is liable for damages
caused by such animal while at large. (2006 Code)
5-2-5: DANGEROUS OR VICIOUS:
It is unlawful to permit a dangerous or vicious animal of any kind to run at
large within the town limits. Any such animals may be immediately impounded.
   A.   Complaints: Upon complaint of any person, and after notice to the owner
and a civil hearing, the town magistrate may determine that an animal is
dangerous or vicious and order one or more of the following:
      1.   The destruction of said animal;
      2.   That such animal be confined within a building or secure enclosure;
      3.   That such animal be securely muzzled or caged at all times.
   B.   Destruction: The animal control officer is authorized to destroy any
dangerous animal of any kind, upon an order from the town magistrate, or when
it is necessary for the protection of any person or property, when in their
judgment the animal is:
      1.   Dangerous or vicious; and
      2.   Cannot be safely impounded. (2006 Code)
5-2-6: WILD ANIMALS:
   A.   Definition: A "wild animal" is defined as any species of mammal,
reptile, amphibian, arachnid or fowl which is not naturally tame or gentle but
is of a wild nature or disposition, and which, because it is carnivorous in its
wild state, or is poisonous, or because of its size, physical makeup, vicious
nature or other characteristics, would constitute a danger to human life,
domestic animals or property, including, but not limited to, a lion, tiger,
leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay, mountain lion, lynx, bobcat,
jaguarundi and other wild cat of the family felidae, hyena, bear, wolverine,
badger, wolf, coyote, boar, alligator, crocodile, any poisonous or venomous
biting or injecting species of amphibian, arachnid, or reptile or any life
threatening reptile.
   B.   Keeping Of Wild Animals: It shall be unlawful for anyone to own,
harbor, or permit at large any wild animal without obtaining a written permit
granted by the town council. Such permit shall be granted only if it is
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the council that the animal will not
constitute a threat to public health or safety.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as to preclude the following:
      1.   The exhibition of domesticated animals or farm animals at a fair or
other event held for the purpose of displaying said animals for judging or
exhibition of animal husbandry;
      2.   The exhibition or display of any animals under the direct auspices
of any public or any private school located within the town, provided said
exhibition or display is for educational purposes only and no admission is
charged;
      3.   The exhibition or display in the ordinary course of business of a
pet shop within the premises identified in the applicable business license,
which premises shall not include any space on the exterior of the store
premises or any space within the common area of a mall or shopping center or
strip shopping center;
      4.   Veterinarians, in the ordinary course of their business;
      5.   Mobile appearances by the humane society; and
      6.   The use, display or exhibition of any animal pursuant to a special
use permit issued by the town council. Requests for such permits shall be made
to the town manager who shall cause the request to be placed on the next
available town council agenda. (2006 Code)
5-2-7: DISTURBING THE PEACE:
No person owning, keeping, possessing, harboring or maintaining an animal shall
suffer or permit such animal to disturb the peace and quiet of any person any
time of day or night by barking, whining, howling, crowing, braying or by
making any other similar objectionable noise, by running through or across
cultivated gardens, fields or landscaped yards. (2006 Code)
5-2-8: SWINE:
It is unlawful to keep any live swine or pot-bellied pigs in the town within
seventy five feet (75') of any building used for human residence. (2006 Code)
5-2-9: DISEASED ANIMALS:
   A.   Prohibited: No animal afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to run at large or be exposed to any public place whereby the
health of man or beast may be affected.
   B.   Removal: It shall be unlawful for any person knowing or suspecting an
animal which has rabies or with a contagious or infectious disease to allow
such an animal to be taken off his premises or beyond the limits of the town
without the written permission of the animal control officer. Every owner or
other person knowing or suspecting that an animal has rabies or any contagious
or infectious disease shall immediately notify the animal control officer who
shall either remove the animal to the pound or summarily destroy it, except in
cases where the state health officer or state veterinarian is empowered to act.
(2006 Code)
5-2-10: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Notice To Owners:
      1.   If the owner of any impounded animal shall be known to the animal
control officer and shall reside or have a known place of business in the town,
the animal control officer shall notify the owner of such animal personally or
by letter through the post office or by notice placed at the residence of the
owner within forty eight (48) hours after such animal has been impounded. The
notice shall contain a description of the animal and shall state that unless
reclaimed, such animal shall be adopted or destroyed at the time and place
specified in the notice.
      2.   An animal impounded pursuant to this chapter may be sold at public
auction to the highest bidder. Copies of the notice shall be posted at the
place of impoundment and at the town hall.
   B.   Report: The animal control officer shall, after impounding any animal,
make a report stating the kind of animal and describing it by color or
otherwise or by any marks or brands that may be on it, and when it was
impounded.
   C.   Conditions And Duration: The animal control officer shall provide for
the keeping of all animals impounded by the department in a safe, convenient
and comfortable place within or near the town limits and shall feed such
animals at least once during every twenty four (24) hours and treat them in a
humane manner during the time they are impounded, which shall not be less than
seventy two (72) hours, unless sooner claimed by the owner.
   D.   Redemption: If the owner of any animal shall within seventy two (72)
hours after such animal has been impounded, apply to the animal control officer
and pay the fees and charges established by this chapter, the animal control
officer may deliver any such animal to the owner or shall arrange for the owner
to pick up the animal from the pound or impound location, unless that animal
has been impounded pursuant to section
5-2-11 of this chapter. (2006 Code)
5-2-11: QUARANTINE OF BITING ANIMALS:
Whenever any animal bites a person, such person and the owner of the animal
shall immediately notify the animal control officer, who shall arrange for
quarantine of the animal to be made and shall order the animal to be held on
the owner's premises or shall have it impounded at the pound or at the
veterinary hospital at the owners expense as long as necessary for a complete
examination or for the length of the quarantine, which will not be less than
ten (10) days. Livestock shall be confined and quarantined for the fourteen
(14) day period in a manner regulated by the Arizona department of agriculture.
Caged or pet rodents or rabbits shall not be quarantined or laboratory tested.
If it is determined that the animal is infected with rabies or any other
dangerous, infectious or contagious disease, it shall be the duty of the animal
control officer to destroy the animal. If, at the end of the quarantine or
impoundment, it is determined that the animal is free from such disease, the
animal shall be released and the owner will assume all the costs related to the
quarantine or impoundment. If the animal dies during the period of quarantine
or impoundment, its head shall be sent to the state department of health for
examination. Any wild animals, with the exception of wild rodents or rabbits,
which bite any person may be killed and submitted to the animal control officer
for transmission to an appropriate diagnostic laboratory. A wild rodent or
rabbit may be submitted for laboratory testing if the animal has bitten a
person and either the animal's health or behavior indicates that the animal may
have rabies or the bite occurred in an area that contains a rabies epizootic as
determined by the department of health services. (2006 Code)
5-2-12: HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   A hearing officer is hereby appointed to hear and determine such cases
arising out of this chapter.
   B.   The hearing officer shall hold a hearing on each violation reported by
the town animal enforcement agent. Notice of the hearing shall be served
personally on the person cited at least ten (10) days before the hearing. The
town animal enforcement agent shall use a uniform traffic ticket and complaint
for civil traffic cases in citing persons for violation of this chapter.
   C.   At the hearing, the town animal enforcement agent shall present
evidence of the violation, and the person cited, or his attorney, shall have an
opportunity to present evidence. The town attorney may represent and present
evidence for the town animal enforcement agent.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall determine
whether a violation occurred and, if so, impose civil penalties in the amount
not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). Monies collected for civil
penalties shall be deposited in the town general fund. The town council shall
adopt written rules of procedure for the hearings. Final decisions of the
hearing officer under this subsection are subject to judicial review per
Arizona Revised Statutes section 12-901 et seq. (Ord. O 09-05, 6-2-2009)
5-2-13: PENALTY:
   A.   Imposed: Unless otherwise provided herein, any person found violating
any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor,
punishable in accordance with applicable state law. Any person violating
sections
5-2-3,
5-2-4,
5-2-7,
5-2A-2 and
5-2A-6 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty offense, punishable in
accordance with applicable state law. If any violation be continuing, each
day's violation shall be deemed a separate violation. If any person has two (2)
prior petty offense convictions for violations of this chapter, such person may
be charged with a class one misdemeanor for any subsequent violation.
   B.   Revocation Of License: Any dog license may be revoked where: 1) the
owner has received two (2) or more convictions for violations of this chapter
in a twelve (12) month period; 2) the owner has been found guilty of animal
cruelty pursuant to ordinance or state law; or 3) the owner has been found
guilty of dangerous or vicious dog at large. Upon complaint and after notice to
the owner and a civil hearing, the town magistrate may issue an order revoking
the license of such owner and order that no new license may be issued for a
specified period of time. (2006 Code; amd. Ord. O 09-04, 6-2-2009)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
5-2A-1: Applicability
5-2A-2: Vaccinations
5-2A-3: Licenses And Tags Generally
5-2A-4: Fees
5-2A-5: Restraint
5-2A-6: Prohibited Acts
5-2A-7: Biting Dogs
5-2A-8: Impoundment
5-2A-9: Adoption
5-2A-10: Rabies Epidemic
5-2A-11: Dog Barking
5-2A-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to dogs, unless such provisions
specifically exclude dogs or unless there is a provision within this article
covering the same subject matter. (2006 Code)
5-2A-2: VACCINATIONS:
   A.   Required: No dog shall be allowed to reside in the town, unless said
dog or dogs have been vaccinated for rabies by a licensed veterinarian.
   B.   Certificate:
      1.   Before a license is issued for any dog, the owner must present a
vaccination certificate signed by a veterinarian licensed by this state or a
government veterinarian stating the owner's name and address and giving the
dog's description, date of vaccination and type, manufacturer and serial number
of the vaccine and date revaccination is due. No dog shall be licensed unless
it is vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of this article and the
regulation promulgated hereunder. A complete record of all of the above will be
kept by the animal control officer.
      2.   A dog vaccinated in any other place prior to entry into the town may
be licensed in the town; provided, that at the time of licensing, the owner of
such dog presents a vaccination certificate, signed by a veterinarian licensed
to practice in that place or a veterinarian employed by a governmental agency
in that place, stating the owner's name and address and giving the dog's
description, date of vaccination and type, manufacturer and serial number of
the vaccine used. The vaccination must be in conformity with the provisions of
this article and the regulations promulgated hereunder.
   C.   Low Cost Clinics: The animal control officer may make provision for low
cost vaccination clinics as deemed necessary. The vaccination shall be
performed by a veterinarian.
   D.   Impounded Unvaccinated Dogs: If a dog is impounded and found to be
unvaccinated, the animal control officer is hereby authorized to cause such dog
to be vaccinated at the pound at a cost to be borne by the owner. The
vaccination shall be performed by a veterinarian, who shall issue a
verification of vaccination. (2006 Code)
5-2A-3: LICENSES 1  AND TAGS GENERALLY:
   A.   License Required: All dogs four (4) months old or older kept, harbored
or maintained in the town for at least thirty (30) consecutive days in a
calendar year must be licensed and registered. Dog licenses shall be issued by
the animal control officer, upon payment of a license fee, which license shall
expire annually on March 31. The owner shall state at the time application is
made for such license, his name and address, the name, breed, color and sex of
each dog owned or kept by him.
   B.   Guide Dogs; Exemption: A guide dog belonging to a blind person who is a
resident of the state or any bona fide nonprofit organization which is in the
business of breeding, raising or training dogs that are to be used for guiding
the blind shall, upon application by the owner or organization to the town and
on presentation of proper proof, be licensed pursuant to this article without a
payment of a fee.
   C.   Tag; Information: Each dog licensed under the terms of this article
shall receive, at the time of licensing, a tag on which shall be inscribed the
name of the town, the number of the license and the year in which it expires.
The tag shall be attached to a collar or harness which shall be worn by the dog
at all times except as otherwise provided in this article. Whenever a dog tag
is lost, a duplicate tag shall be issued upon application by the owner and
payment of a fee of three dollars ($3.00) to the animal control officer.
   D.   Counterfeit Tag; Removal: It is unlawful for any person to counterfeit
or attempt to counterfeit an official dog tag or remove such tag from any dog
for the purpose of wilful and malicious mischief, or place a dog tag on a dog
unless the tag was issued to that dog.
   E.   New Ownership: Whenever the ownership of a dog has been changed, the
new owner must secure a transfer of license to such owner. A transfer fee of
five dollars ($5.00) shall be charged to transfer any license.
   F.   Exemptions To Wearing Tag: Dogs while being used for hunting or dogs
while being exhibited at recognized kennel club events, or dogs while engaged
in races approved by the Arizona racing commission, and such dogs while being
transported to and from such events need not wear a collar or harness with a
valid license tag attached; provided, that they are properly vaccinated and
licensed.
   G.   Apprehend; Impound: The animal control officer may apprehend and
impound any dog found without a current valid license tag.
   H.   Attachment Of Tag: It shall be the duty of every owner or keeper of any
dog kept within the limits of the town to cause the license tag hereinabove
mentioned to be securely attached around the dog's neck and kept there at all
times during the license period. Absence of the license tag from the neck of
any dog shall be "prima facie" evidence that the dog has not been licensed or
vaccinated as provided in this article. Any such dog shall be deemed to be
unowned. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 5-2-13B of this chapter.
5-2A-4: FEES:
   A.   Established; Amendment: Fees required to be paid by this article which
are not specified herein shall be as established by the town council by
resolution. Fees which are specified in this article shall be in effect until
such time as the fees are changed by the town council by resolution.
   B.   Specified: The license fee for a dog is five dollars ($5.00) per year,
unless it is unsterile, the license fee is seven dollars ($7.00). The fee for
redemption of an impounded dog is twenty dollars ($20.00) (impound charge). The
impound fees double for each subsequent impoundment within one year (of the
incident) of the same dog in the following manner:
      1.   Second impoundment: Twenty dollars ($20.00);
      2.   Third impoundment: Forty dollars ($40.00);
      3.   Fourth impoundment: Eighty dollars ($80.00); and
      4.   Fifth impoundment: One hundred sixty dollars ($160.00). (2006 Code)
5-2A-5: RESTRAINT:
No person in charge of any dog shall permit such dog to be in a public park or
upon any public school property unless the dog is physically restrained by a
leash, enclosed in a car, cage or similar enclosure, or being exhibited or
trained at a recognized kennel club event, public school or park sponsored
event. (2006 Code)
5-2A-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   No dog shall be permitted at large in the designated and defined
incorporated areas of Star Valley, Arizona. No persons owning or having the
responsibility, charge, care, custody or control of any dog shall allow the dog
to stray, run, be, go, or in any manner to exist at large, off the property of
the owners; on or upon any public street, sidewalk, or public park or
thoroughfare; or upon any other person's property without the consent of the
person in lawful possession of the property.
      2.   No person in charge of any dog shall permit such an animal in a
public park or upon any public school property unless the animal is physically
restrained by a leash, chain, rope, enclosed in a motor vehicle, caged or
similar enclosure. The leash, chain or rope shall not exceed six feet (6') in
length and must be directly under the owner's or responsible person's control
when not on the owner's property.
   B.   Exempt Activities: The provisions of subsection A of this section shall
not apply:
      1.   Unless unreasonable under the circumstances, activity involving the
possession, training, exhibition or use of a dog in the otherwise lawful
pursuits of hunting, ranching, farming, rodeos, shows, exhibitions, racing, and
the lawful operation of veterinary clinics, pet shops, kennels and security
services.
      2.   While participating in field trials, obedience classes, or kennel
club events where such trials, classes or events have been approved by the town
animal enforcement agent.
      3.   While assisting a peace officer engaged in law enforcement duties.
      4.   To guide dogs while assisting blind, deaf or physically handicapped
persons, if such dogs are under the direct control of one of these individuals.
(Ord. O 09-04, 6-2-2009)
5-2A-7: BITING DOGS:
   A.   Reporting: Whenever a dog bites any person, the incident shall be
reported to the animal control officer immediately by any person having direct
knowledge.
   B.   Quarantine; Impoundment: Any dog that bites any person shall be
quarantined and impounded, as prescribed in section
5-2-11 of this chapter, for a period of not less than ten (10) days. The
quarantine period shall start on the day of the bite incident. If the day of
the bite is not known, the quarantine period shall start on the first day of
impoundment. If the dog is impounded as a result of a dog bite incident, the
owner shall pay a fifty dollar ($50.00) impound fee.
   C.   Destruction; Release: If the dog shows clear clinical signs of rabies
or other dangerous, contagious and infectious disease, or if the owner consents
to its destruction, it shall be the duty of the animal control officer to
destroy such dog in as humane manner as is reasonably possible. If at the end
of the quarantine or impoundment, the animal control officer, after
consultation with a veterinarian is convinced that the dog is free from such
diseases, the dog shall be released. If the dog dies during the period of
quarantine or impoundment, its head shall be sent to the state department of
health for an examination. (2006 Code)
5-2A-8: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Authority: The animal control officer may apprehend and impound any dog
found without a current valid license tag; any dog with or without a current
valid license tag which is found running at large; any dog disturbing the
peace; any dog which bites any person; or any dog which is a public nuisance as
defined in section
5-2-3 of this title.
   B.   Notification To Owner: The animal control officer shall notify the
owner in person or by mail or by notice placed at the residence of the owner of
any licensed dog impounded under the provisions of this article.
   C.   Time Of Impoundment: Each unlicensed dog impounded shall be kept and
maintained at the pound for a minimum of three (3) days. At the expiration of
the impoundment period, anyone may claim the dog; provided, that such person
pays all established impound fees and completes the licensing provisions of
this article. If no person claims the dog, the animal control officer may
dispose of the dog in a humane manner. (2006 Code)
5-2A-9: ADOPTION:
In accordance with Arizona Revised Statutes, section 11-1022 (sterilization of
impounded dogs), and amendments thereto:
   A.   Spay Or Neuter Required:
      1.   A dog shall not be released for adoption from a county, city or town
pound or from an animal shelter unless the dog has been surgically spayed or
neutered.
      2.   The adopting party must sign an agreement to have the dog spayed or
neutered within thirty (30) days or before sexual maturity and deposit with the
pound or shelter an amount sufficient to ensure that the dog will be
sterilized. The pound or shelter shall refund to the adopting party any monies
deposited pursuant to the agreement if within the time provided in the
agreement there is presented a written statement signed by a licensed
veterinarian that the adopted dog has been spayed or neutered. The deposit
required for spaying is fifty dollars ($50.00) and for neutering is thirty five
dollars ($35.00). If the adopting party does not spay or neuter the dog and
provide a receipt to the town within thirty (30) days, the fee is forfeited to
the town.
   B.   Fee: The town adopting fee is fifteen dollars ($15.00), which includes
the license fee.
   C.   Use Of Funds: Deposit monies that are not refunded must be used in
public education to prevent overpopulation of dogs and cats. The animal control
division may fund or help fund and coordinate public education classes or
handouts. (2006 Code)
5-2A-10: RABIES EPIDEMIC:
Whenever the prevalence of hydrophobia renders such action necessary to protect
the public health and safety, the mayor shall issue a proclamation ordering
every person owning or keeping a dog to confine it securely on his premises
unless it is muzzled so that it cannot bite. No person shall violate such
proclamation and any unmuzzled dog running at large during the time fixed on
the proclamation may be destroyed by the animal control officer without notice
to the owner. (2006 Code)
5-2A-11: DOG BARKING:
   A.   Prohibited:
      1.   A person violates this subsection prohibiting unrestrained dog
barking if, with the intent to disturb the peace or quiet of a neighborhood,
family or person, or with knowledge of doing so, such person knowingly or
recklessly:
         a.   Owns, possesses or keeps any dog which engages in excessive and
unrestrained barking at a time and place unreasonable under the circumstances.
         b.   Permits any act in violation of subsection A1a of this section to
be done on any premises under his charge or control.
      2.   Violation of this subsection A results in a civil penalty not to
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) as determined by the hearing officer
established in section
5-2-12 of this chapter.
   B.   Exempt Activities: Unless unreasonable under the circumstances,
activity involving the pursuits of hunting, ranching, farming, rodeos, shows,
exhibitions, racing, and the lawful operation of veterinary clinics, pet shops
and kennels, and security services, shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.
   C.   Provocation Or Incitement To Bark As A Defense: A third person's
provocation or incitement to bark shall be a defense to the violation under
this section. (Ord. O 09-05, 6-2-2009)
CHAPTER 3
OFFENSES 1
SECTION:
5-3-1: Displaying Vehicles For Sale On Property
5-3-2: Explosives And Fireworks; Permit Required
5-3-3: Weapons
5-3-4: Prostitution
5-3-5: Littering
5-3-6: Searchlights
5-3-7: Spitting
5-3-8: Hazardous Water Conditions
5-3-9: Obstruction Of Streets
5-3-10: Withdrawing Of Water In Town
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-240B.
5-3-1: DISPLAYING VEHICLES FOR SALE ON PROPERTY:
   A.   Motor Vehicle Defined: Motor vehicle shall be defined as an automobile
or truck, motorcycle, recreational vehicle, boat, trailer or heavy construction
or farm vehicles.
   B.   Unlawful: No person shall cause or permit a motor vehicle owned by or
registered to him to be parked or displayed upon any property other than his
own, or upon property which he is renting or leasing for residential purposes,
for the purpose of advertising said vehicle for sale.
   C.   Exceptions:
      1.   This section shall not apply to any person who causes or permits the
parking of a motor vehicle owned by him upon property owned by any person
licensed by the state for the purpose of carrying on the business of retail
sale of such vehicles.
      2.   This section shall not apply to the parking of a single vehicle for
sale on a single residential lot, irrespective of vehicle ownership. (2006
Code)
5-3-2: EXPLOSIVES AND FIREWORKS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the town to blast or use
powder, fireworks or other explosives without a written permit from the proper
authority of the Diamond Star fire district or United States fire service.
(2006 Code)
5-3-3: WEAPONS:
   A.   Unlawful Discharge; Exceptions: It is unlawful for any person within
the limits of the town to fire or discharge any firearm, BB gun, air gun,
pellet gun, dart gun, slingshot, gas operated gun or other similar gun or
instrument except:
      1.   As allowed pursuant to the provisions of chapter 4, title 13 of the
Arizona Revised Statutes.
      2.   On a properly supervised range.
   B.   Public Events And Places: Any person, other than a peace officer on
duty carrying a weapon, upon entering any public place or attending a public
event, may be required by the operator of the establishment or the sponsor of
the event to remove his weapon and place it in the custody of the operator of
the establishment or the sponsor of the event.
   C.   Minors: It is unlawful for any person to sell or give to a minor under
the age of eighteen (18) years, without written consent of the minor's parent
or legal guardian, a weapon, ammunition or toy pistol by which dangerous and
explosive substances may be discharged. (2006 Code)
5-3-4: PROSTITUTION:
It is unlawful for any person to practice prostitution, to patronize a
prostitute or to solicit any person to visit or patronize a prostitute or place
of prostitution. (2006 Code)
5-3-5: LITTERING:
It is unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any litter in or upon any
street, alley, public grounds, school grounds, church grounds or property of
other persons. (2006 Code)
5-3-6: SEARCHLIGHTS:
It is unlawful for any person to operate within the town any incandescent or
arc type searchlight, beacon light or similar lighting device designed to and
capable of projecting a beam of light into the sky for a distance in excess of
one-half (1/2) mile, unless permission is obtained from the town council. The
provisions of this section shall not apply to emergency searchlights or beacons
operated pursuant to public authority. (2006 Code)
5-3-7: SPITTING:
It is unlawful for any person to spit upon any of the public sidewalks or
crosswalks in the town or upon any public path, byway or highway, or in or on
any public ground or park in the town, or upon the floor or interior of any
public building in the town. (2006 Code)
5-3-8: HAZARDOUS WATER CONDITIONS:
   A.   Unlawful To Permit: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or
negligently permit or cause the escape or flow of water in such quantity as to
cause flooding, or to impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to create a
hazardous condition to such traffic, or to cause damage to the public streets
of the town.
   B.   Irrigation Water: It is unlawful for any person to wilfully or
negligently permit or cause the escape or flow of irrigation water in such
quantity as to cause flooding, to impede vehicular or pedestrian traffic, to
create a hazardous condition to such traffic, or to cause damage to the public
streets of the town through the failure or neglect to properly operate or
maintain any irrigation structure, delivery ditch or waste ditch in which said
person has a vested right or interest or through the wilful or negligent
failure of said person to accept irrigation water after it has been ordered by
him. (2006 Code)
5-3-9: OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS:
It is unlawful for any person to obstruct any public street or alley, sidewalk
or park or other public grounds within the town by any act or thing which is an
obstruction or interference to the free use of property or with any business
lawfully conducted by anyone, in or upon, or facing or fronting on any of such
streets, alleys, sidewalks, parks or other public grounds in the town. (2006
Code)
5-3-10: WITHDRAWING OF WATER IN TOWN:
   A.   No water from any publicly owned or privately owned well within the
boundaries of the town of Star Valley shall be used for any purpose outside of
the boundaries of the town of Star Valley if such use will lower the water
available for use within the town of Star Valley boundaries beyond the ADWR 5/
10 drawdown rule (the drawing down of static water level of more than 10 feet
any time within a 5 year period), as measured by the town of Star Valley well
monitoring equipment, minus consideration for drought conditions, except as
allowed by the town council of the town of Star Valley.
   B.   Any person or entity found guilty of violating any provision of this
section shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein described. (Ord.
O07-13, 7-24-2007)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS; CURFEW
SECTION:
5-4-1: Regulations
5-4-2: Parents And Guardians
5-4-3: Exceptions
5-4-4: Penalty
5-4-1: REGULATIONS:
   A.   Under Sixteen Years: It shall be unlawful for any juvenile under the
age of sixteen (16) years to be, remain or loiter in, about or upon any place
in the town away from the dwelling house or usual place of abode of said
juvenile, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
A.M. of the following day.
   B.   Sixteen Years Of Age Or Older: It shall be unlawful for any juvenile
sixteen (16) years of age or older and under the age of eighteen (18) years to
be, remain or loiter in, about or upon any place in the town away from the
dwelling house or usual place of abode of said juvenile, between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following
day. (2006 Code)
5-4-2: PARENTS AND GUARDIANS:
   A.   Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care, custody or supervision of a juvenile to permit
such juvenile to be, remain or loiter in, about or upon any place in the town
away from the dwelling or usual place of abode of said juvenile in violation of
section
5-4-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Knowledge; Does Not Constitute Defense: It shall not constitute a
defense hereto that such parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care, custody or supervision of such juvenile coming within the provisions of
section
5-4-1 of this chapter, did not have actual knowledge of the presence of such
juvenile in, or about or upon any place in the town away from the dwelling
house or usual place of abode of said juvenile, if said parent, guardian, or
other person having the care, custody or supervision of such juvenile or
juveniles, in the exercise of reasonable care and diligence, should have known
of the aforementioned unlawful acts of such juvenile. (2006 Code)
5-4-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The curfew set forth in section
5-4-1 of this chapter does not apply to:
   A.   Legally Emancipated Minors: Legally emancipated minors, whether the
emancipation be through marriage, military service or other legally sufficient
grounds.
   B.   Accompanied By Parent Or Guardian: Minors who are accompanied by their
parent, guardian or other person having the legal care and custody of the
minor.
   C.   Specific Functions: Minors who could otherwise be in violation of the
terms of this chapter when:
      1.   Their presence is reasonably required in the pursuit of a lawful
occupation, business or profession in which the minor is engaged; with the
permission of a parent, guardian, or other person having the legal care and
custody of the minor; or
      2.   The minor is on an emergency errand, medical or otherwise; or
      3.   The minor is going to, attending or coming from a place or function
sponsored by or related to school, church, civic, or other nonprofit
organization. These functions shall include, but are not necessarily limited
to: classes, services, meetings, dances, dramatic or musical performances,
sporting events, or other social events sponsored by school, religious, civic,
or other nonprofit organizations, with the permission of the parent, guardian,
or other person having the legal care and custody of the minor. (2006 Code)
5-4-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Delivery Of Juvenile Into Custody: In addition to any other powers he
may have, any law enforcement officer who arrests a juvenile for violating any
of the provisions of section
5-4-1 of this chapter is also hereby empowered to demand of the parent,
guardian or other person having the care, custody or supervision of such
juvenile that such parent, guardian or other person come and take such juvenile
into custody. Should there be a failure of the parent, guardian or other person
to take custody of such juvenile, the officer may then be empowered to take
such juvenile home. It shall be unlawful for any such parent, guardian or other
person having the care, custody or supervision of said juvenile to fail or
refuse to take such juvenile into custody after such demand is made upon them.
   B.   Violation:
      1.   Juvenile: It shall be unlawful for any juvenile to violate the
provisions of section
5-4-1 of this chapter. The proceedings shall be taken in accordance with and
pursuant to the juvenile code as contained in the Arizona Revised Statutes,
section 8-201 et seq.
      2.   Parent Or Guardian: Any parent or guardian of the juvenile who shall
violate the provisions of section
5-4-2 and subsection 5-4-4A of this chapter shall be guilty of a class three
misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
FALSE ALARMS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Purpose And Findings
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Audible Alarm Standards
5-5-4: Violation Of Audible Alarm Standards
5-5-5: Automatic Dialing Telephone Systems Prohibited
5-5-6: Alarm Users
5-5-7: Alarm System Monitoring Companies
5-5-8: Security Alarm Verification Process
5-5-9: Unlawful Activation Or Report Of Alarm
5-5-10: Determination Of False Alarm; Rebuttable Presumption
5-5-11: Penalty For False Alarm
5-5-12: Appeal Of False Alarm Fine
5-5-13: No Response To Frequent False Alarms; Appeal Of No Response
Determination
5-5-14: Violation; Civil Penalties
5-5-15: False Alarm Prevention Programs
5-5-16: Severability
5-5-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   A.   The town council of the town of Star Valley is enacting this chapter to
encourage security alarm users and alarm system monitoring companies to
maintain the operational reliability and proper use of security alarm systems
in order to reduce unnecessary police responses to false alarms. The council
finds that false alarms are not only a public nuisance but also a threat to
public safety by diverting limited police resources from legitimate requests
for assistance and other law enforcement matters.
   B.   The council intends this chapter to provide for the health, safety and
welfare of the general public and not to protect particular individuals or to
otherwise designate a particular group of persons who should be especially
affected by the terms of this chapter. This chapter imposes or creates no
duties on the part of the town or its departments and employees, and the
obligation of complying with the requirements of this chapter, and any
liability for failure to do so is placed upon the parties responsible for
owning, operating, monitoring or maintaining security alarm systems.
   C.   The council is authorized to enact this chapter pursuant to its police
powers. The council does not intend this chapter to conflict with any state
laws that may govern the licensing of alarm system monitoring companies and
false alarms. (2006 Code)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
   A.   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
    ALARM SYSTEM MONITORING COMPANY: Any individual, partnership, corporation
or other form of association that engages in the business of monitoring
security alarm systems and reporting any activation of such alarm systems to
the police.
   ALARM USER: Any individual, partnership, corporation or other form of
association that owns or leases a security alarm system or on whose premises a
security alarm system is maintained for the protection of the premises.
   AUTOMATIC DIALING TELEPHONE ALARM: A security alarm system with a device
that automatically dials the police department emergency assistance telephone
lines without human activation of the device by the alarm user.
   CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of police of the town of Payson and the chief's
designee.
   DEPARTMENT: The town of Payson police department.
   DISPATCH OR RESPONSE: A discretionary decision whether to direct police
units to a location where there has been a request, made by whatever means, for
police assistance or investigation. There is no duty to dispatch under any
circumstances, including to answer an alarm signal, and all dispatch decisions
are made subject to competing priorities and available police resources.
   FALSE ALARM: An alarm signal eliciting notification to and a response by the
police when there is no evidence of a crime or other activity that warrants a
call for immediate police assistance and no person who was on or near the
property or has viewed a video communication from the property called for the
police dispatch or confirmed the need for police assistance. "False alarm" does
not include an alarm signal caused by violent conditions of nature or other
extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the alarm user.
   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEM: Any system, device, or mechanism for the detection
and reporting of any unauthorized entry or attempted entry or property damage
upon premises protected by the system that may be activated by sensors or other
techniques and, when activated, automatically transmits a telephone message or
emits an audible, visible, or electronic signal that can be heard, seen, or
received by persons outside of the protected premises and is intended to summon
police assistance. (2006 Code)
5-5-3: AUDIBLE ALARM STANDARDS:
   A.   A security alarm system that emits an audible signal that may be heard
outside of the protected premises shall conform to the following requirements:
      1.   Audible alarms shall automatically discontinue emitting the audible
sound within ten (10) minutes after activation of the alarm; and
      2.   With respect to security alarm systems in existence prior to the
enactment of this chapter that do not comply with subsection A1 of this
section, the alarm user shall have ninety (90) days from the enactment of this
chapter in which to make the necessary modifications to the alarm system in
order to comply with the requirement. (2006 Code)
5-5-4: VIOLATION OF AUDIBLE ALARM STANDARDS:
   A.   The sounding of an audible signal from a security alarm system that can
be heard continuously off the premises for more than ten (10) minutes is a
civil infraction and the alarm user, in addition to any other penalties
specified herein, shall be penalized by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each offense.
   B.   It is a defense to a violation of this section that the continuous
sounding of the alarm:
      1.   Assisted in saving a life or avoiding injury; or
      2.   Was caused by a malfunction of the alarm system equipment without
the alarm user's prior knowledge of the cause of the malfunction; or
      3.   Was activated by an unauthorized entry or criminal activity. (2006
Code)
5-5-5: AUTOMATIC DIALING TELEPHONE SYSTEMS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Beginning ninety (90) days after the effective date hereof, it shall be
unlawful for any individual, partnership, corporation or other form of
association to sell, offer for sale, install, maintain, operate or assist in
the operation of any alarm system with an automatic dialing or digital alarm
communicator feature that automatically calls the police in the event of an
alarm. (2006 Code)
5-5-6: ALARM USERS:
   A.   An alarm user shall:
      1.   Maintain the premises and security alarm system in a manner that
will minimize or eliminate false alarms;
      2.   Review all alarm system operating instructions including those for
verification of an alarm;
      3.   Notify the alarm system monitoring company of a false alarm
activation as soon as the user is aware of the false alarm; and
      4.   Not manually activate an alarm except when needing an immediate
police response to an emergency. (2006 Code)
5-5-7: ALARM SYSTEM MONITORING COMPANIES:
   A.   An alarm system monitoring company engaging in business activities in
the town shall:
      1.   Obtain all necessary business licenses as required by the town and
the state of Arizona;
      2.   Maintain a current record, accessible to the chief of police at all
times, that includes: the names of the alarm users serviced by the company; the
addresses of the protected properties; the type of alarm system, original
installation date and subsequent modifications, if any, for each protected
property; and a record of the false alarms at each property;
      3.   Provide the chief of police such information as the chief requests
regarding: the nature of the company's security alarms; the company's method of
monitoring the alarms; the company's program for preventing false alarms,
including educational programs for alarm users; and the company's method for
disconnecting audible alarms;
      4.   Provide each of its alarm system users with: operating instructions
for the alarm system, including an explanation of the alarm company's alarm
verification process; a telephone number to call for assistance in operating
the system; and a summary of the provisions of this chapter relating to
penalties for false alarms and the possibility of no police response to alarm
systems experiencing excessive false alarms;
      5.   Maintain a verification process, as specified in section
5-5-8 of this chapter, for all monitored security alarm systems in order to
prevent unnecessary police dispatches resulting from false alarms;
      6.   Communicate requests for police response to the department in a
manner specified by the chief;
      7.   Communicate requests for cancellations of police response in a
manner specified by the chief;
      8.   Maintain a record of all requests for police response to an alarm,
including: the date and time of the alarm and request for police response; the
alarm system user's name and address; evidence of the company's attempt to
verify the alarm; and, to the best of its knowledge, an explanation of the
cause of any false alarm; and
      9.   Work cooperatively with the alarm system user and the chief in order
to determine the cause of any false alarm and to prevent recurrences. (2006
Code)
5-5-8: SECURITY ALARM VERIFICATION PROCESS:
   A.   A verification process is an independent method of an alarm system
monitoring company for determining that a signal from a security alarm system
requires immediate police response. The verification process shall not take
more than five (5) minutes, calculated from the time that the alarm company
receives the alarm signal until the alarm company determines whether to request
a police dispatch. The means of verification shall include at least one of the
following:
      1.   The establishment of voice communications with the alarm user or a
person authorized by the user at or near the premises with the alarm who may
indicate whether there is an immediate need for police response;
      2.   A feature that permits the alarm user or a person authorized by the
user to send a special signal to the alarm company that will cancel the alarm
immediately after the signal has been sent and prevent the alarm company from
calling the police;
      3.   The installation of a video system that provides the alarm company
when the alarm signal is received with the ability to ascertain whether
activity is occurring that warrants immediate police response;
      4.   A confirmation that an alarm signal reflects a need for immediate
police response from either the alarm user or a person authorized by the user
or an alternate response agency made before dispatching the police; or
      5.   An alternate system that the chief determines has or is likely to
have a high degree of reliability. (2006 Code)
5-5-9: UNLAWFUL ACTIVATION OR REPORT OF ALARM:
   A.   No person shall activate a security alarm system for the purpose of
summoning the police except in the event of an unauthorized entry, robbery, or
other crime being committed or attempted on the premises, or if the person
needs immediate assistance in order to avoid injury or serious bodily harm.
   B.   Any person who shall notify the police of an activated alarm and have
knowledge that such activation was apparently caused by an electrical or other
malfunction shall at the same time notify the police of the apparent
malfunction. (2006 Code)
5-5-10: DETERMINATION OF FALSE ALARM; REBUTTABLE PRESUMPTION:
   A.   For the purposes of this chapter, there is a rebuttable presumption
that the following determinations made by the chief of police or by a police
officer dispatched to the premises reporting an alarm signal are correct:
      1.   There is no evidence of a crime or other activity that would warrant
a call for immediate police assistance at the premises.
      2.   No individual who was on or near the premises or who has viewed a
video communication from the premises called for a police dispatch or verified
a need for an immediate police response; and
      3.   There is no evidence that violent conditions of nature or other
extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the alarm user caused the
activation of the alarm. (2006 Code)
5-5-11: PENALTY FOR FALSE ALARM:
   A.   A false alarm is a civil infraction, and the alarm system user shall be
penalized by a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00) for the second false alarm
responded to by the police department within a calendar year and for each false
alarm responded to thereafter within the same calendar year. (2006 Code)
5-5-12: APPEAL OF FALSE ALARM FINE:
   A.   The justice court may waive the civil penalty incurred by an alarm
system user for a false alarm and clear the notice of violation as a warning
if:
      1.   The notice to the alarm user describes a violation of section
5-5-11 of this chapter; and
      2.   Within fifteen (15) days after the date of the notice of a false
alarm, the alarm user either follows the instructions on the back of the notice
of violation to arrange an appearance in court or mails a written response to
the court requesting a waiver and clearance as a warning.
      3.   The alarm user may present evidence before the court or in the
written response to the court that shows: the steps that the alarm user or
alarm system monitoring company has taken, or is taking, to correct the false
alarm problem; the incidence of crime in the area of the property; the facts
and circumstances of the false alarm; and other relevant information. (2006
Code)
5-5-13: NO RESPONSE TO FREQUENT FALSE ALARMS; APPEAL OF NO RESPONSE
DETERMINATION:
   A.   When the chief of police determines whether to make an immediate
dispatch in response to notification of a signal from a security alarm system,
the chief may disregard a call for police assistance when:
      1.   The call for assistance comes from an alarm system for a premises
that has a record of sending four (4) false alarms in a six (6) month period;
and
      2.   The call is the only basis for making the dispatch.
   B.   The chief may consider such a call for assistance as an additional
factor in the chief's decision to order an immediate police response when an in
person call, verification from a person at or near the premises, or other
independent evidence shows a need for immediate police assistance at the
premises.
   C.   To discourage false alarms, the chief shall adopt a process of sending
a letter or delivering other written notice informing the alarm user who has
had a false alarm of the consequences of excessive false alarms, the need to
take corrective action, and the prospect that four (4) false alarms in a six
(6) month period shall result in the police disregarding alarms from the
premises and not responding to requests for immediate police assistance unless
there is an in person call for assistance from someone at or near the premises
or other independent information that verifies the need for an immediate police
response.
   D.   Before determining not to respond to alarms from a premises as
specified above, the chief shall send or deliver notice to the alarm user that:
      1.   Four (4) false alarms have been received from the property within a
six (6) month period;
      2.   The remedy authorized in subsection A of this section may be taken;
      3.   The alarm system user may request a hearing before the chief or the
chief's designee and explain why the chief should not take the proposed action;
      4.   If no hearing is requested, the department will after ten (10) days
from the delivery of the notice disregard alarms from the premises unless there
is an in person call for assistance from someone at or near the premises or
other independent information that verifies the need for an immediate police
response; and
      5.   A requirement of an in person communication or other verification
shall remain in effect for a period of one year.
   E.   If a hearing is requested, the chief shall schedule the hearing within
ten (10) days of the receipt of the request. At the hearing, the chief may
consider such factors as: the steps that the alarm user or alarm system
monitoring company has taken, or is taking, to correct the problem; the
incidence of crime in the area of the premises; the facts and circumstances of
the false alarms; and other relevant information presented by the alarm user or
the alarm system monitoring company.
   F.   The chief may suspend or cancel the remedy under subsection A of this
section if the chief determines that the alarm user or alarm system monitoring
company has taken appropriate actions to prevent the recurrence of false
alarms. (2006 Code)
5-5-14: VIOLATION; CIVIL PENALTIES:
   A.   An alarm system monitoring company's failure to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter shall be a civil infraction, punishable by a fine
of up to two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Each day of noncompliance shall
constitute a separate offense.
   B.   The violations of the other sections of this chapter shall be a civil
infraction and punishable by a fine of up to fifty dollars ($50.00), unless
otherwise specified.
   C.   There shall be a maximum penalty of fifty dollars ($50.00) for any of
the following:
      1.   Failure to respond to a false alarm notice within fifteen (15) days
of receipt of the notice;
      2.   Failure to appear for a hearing requested pursuant to this chapter;
and
      3.   Failure to pay any fine imposed pursuant to this chapter.
   D.   Any fines imposed under this section are appealable to the justice
court. (2006 Code)
5-5-15: FALSE ALARM PREVENTION PROGRAMS:
   A.   All fines collected pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
directed to the town of Star Valley. (2006 Code)
5-5-16: SEVERABILITY:
   A.   Severability is intended throughout and within the provisions of this
chapter. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of
this chapter is held to be invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent
jurisdiction, then that decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this chapter. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Sale Of Products Containing Pseudoephedrine
5-6-2: Penalty
5-6-1: SALE OF PRODUCTS CONTAINING PSEUDOEPHEDRINE:
   A.   In this chapter, unless the context otherwise requires:
    PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT: Any product containing ephedrine or
pseudoephedrine and includes any compound, mixture or preparation that contains
any detectable quantity of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, norpseudoephedrine, or
phenylpropanolamine or their salts, optical isomers or salts of optical
isomers. Product packaging that lists ephedrine, pseudoephedrine,
norpseudoephedrine, or phenylpropanolamine as an active ingredient shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the product is a pseudoephedrine product.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business that offers any pseudoephedrine
products for sale at retail.
   B.   The operator of a retail establishment shall keep all products
containing pseudoephedrine behind a store counter or otherwise in a manner that
is inaccessible to customers without the assistance of the operator or an
employee of the establishment.
   C.   A person making a retail sale of a product containing pseudoephedrine
shall require a government issued, photo identification from the purchaser and
shall record the purchaser's name, date of birth, quantity of pseudoephedrine
product purchased, transaction date and the initials of the seller.
   D.   The information required to be obtained by subsection C of this section
will be retained by the retail establishment for a period of ninety (90) days,
and will be considered a confidential document that will only be available to
the operator of the retail establishment, and shall be available to the town of
Star Valley and Payson police department officers, Arizona, department of
public safety officers, Gila County sheriff's department officers, and other
law enforcement officers. (2006 Code)
5-6-2: PENALTY:
   A.   A violation of this chapter is a class 1 misdemeanor. (2006 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
6-1-1: Enforcement
6-1-2: Traffic Violations
6-1-3: Traffic Accidents
6-1-4: Annual Safety Report
6-1-1: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Duty Of Police: It shall be the duty of the police to provide for the
enforcement of the street traffic regulations of the town and all of the state
vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in the town, to make arrests for
traffic violations, to investigate accidents and to assist in developing ways
and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out all duties specially
imposed upon the police by this title.
   B.   Peace Officer Authority: Any peace officer of the town may be
authorized by the police chief to perform any of the duties of the police chief
included in this title. (2006 Code)
6-1-2: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Records Maintained: The police shall keep a record of all violations of
the traffic laws of the town or of the state vehicle laws of which any person
has been charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all such
alleged offenses. Such record shall accumulate during at least a five (5) year
period and from that time on the record shall be maintained complete for at
least the most recent five (5) year period.
   B.   Numbering Forms: All forms for records of violations and notices shall
be serially numbered. For each month and year, a written record shall be kept
available to the public showing the disposal of all such forms.
   C.   Public Records: All records and reports shall be public records. (2006
Code)
6-1-3: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Investigation: It shall be the duty of the police to investigate
traffic accidents and to arrest and assist in the prosecution of those persons
charged with violations of law causing or contributing to such accidents.
   B.   Reports Required: The police chief shall maintain a suitable system of
filing traffic accident reports.
   C.   Studies: Whenever the accidents at any particular location become
numerous, the police chief shall conduct studies of such accidents and
determine remedial measures. (2006 Code)
6-1-4: ANNUAL SAFETY REPORT:
The police chief shall annually prepare a traffic report which shall be filed
with the town manager. Such report shall contain information on traffic matters
in the town as follows:
   A.   Accident Data: The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons
killed, the number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident
data.
   B.   Investigations; Safety Activities: The number of traffic accidents
investigated and other pertinent data on the safety activities of the police
chief.
   C.   Plans And Recommendations: The plans and recommendations of the police
chief for future traffic safety activities. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC CONTROL
SECTION:
6-2-1: Directing Traffic; Authority
6-2-2: Obedience Required
6-2-3: Traffic Control Devices
6-2-4: Crosswalks, Safety Zones, Traffic Lanes
6-2-5: Speed Limits
6-2-6: Obstruction Of View
6-2-7: Through Streets, Stops, Rights Of Way
6-2-8: One-Way Streets And Alleys
6-2-9: Turning Regulations
6-2-10: Processions
6-2-11: Trucks And Large Vehicles
6-2-12: Coasters, Roller Skates And Rollerblades
6-2-13: Use Of Engine Brakes Prohibited
6-2-1: DIRECTING TRAFFIC; AUTHORITY:
   A.   Police: The police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by
voice, hand or signal.
   B.   Fire Officials: Appropriate fire officials may direct or assist the
police in directing traffic when necessary to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the community, but only in an emergency situation. (2006 Code)
6-2-2: OBEDIENCE REQUIRED:
   A.   Regulations: It is unlawful, except as otherwise provided in this code,
for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by
this title or wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of the police or of any fire department official.
   B.   Signs: Whenever traffic signs are erected as provided in this title,
every driver of a vehicle shall obey such signs unless directed to proceed by
the police or a traffic control signal. No driver shall drive upon or through
any private property such as an oil station, vacant lot or similar property to
avoid obedience to any regulation included in this title. (2006 Code)
6-2-3: TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
The police chief, after discussion with the public works director, and with the
approval of the town manager, shall authorize the placement and maintenance of
traffic control devices, signs and signals when and as required under the
traffic regulations of the town to make effective the provisions of said
regulations, and may authorize placement and maintenance of additional traffic
control devices as he may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic
laws of the town, or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic. The town
manager, in an open meeting, will advise the town council of any authorized
changes. (2006 Code)
6-2-4: CROSSWALKS, SAFETY ZONES, TRAFFIC LANES:
The police chief is hereby authorized, on approval by the town council:
   A.   Crosswalks: To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or
lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where in his
opinion there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he may deem necessary.
   B.   Safety Zones: To establish safety zones of such kind and character and
at such places as he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
   C.   Traffic Lanes: To mark lanes for traffic on street pavement at such
places as he may deem advisable, consistent with the traffic laws of the town.
(2006 Code)
6-2-5: SPEED LIMITS 1 :
   A.   Public Streets: Any speed in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour
shall be prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable and is a civil
traffic violation on every public street of the town, except state or county
highways where the posted speed limit is different and those streets designated
by resolution of the town council as having other speed limits.
   B.   Public Schools: Any speed in excess of fifteen (15) miles per hour on
any street adjacent to a public school located within the town limits shall be
prima facie evidence that the speed is not reasonable and is a civil traffic
violation. This subsection shall be in force from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to
four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on days school is in session. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 28-703.
6-2-6: OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW:
It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any tree, hedge, billboard
or other obstruction which prevents persons driving vehicles on public streets,
alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when approaching an
intersection or pedestrian crosswalk. (2006 Code)
6-2-7: THROUGH STREETS, STOPS, RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The police chief, after discussion with the
public works director and with the approval of the town manager, shall
designate through streets, intersections where stops are required, and
intersections where vehicles shall yield the right of way. The town manager, in
an open meeting, will advise the town council of any authorized changes.
   B.   Placement Of Signs: When the police chief shall designate any through
street or intersection where vehicles are to stop or yield the right of way,
the police chief, in conjunction with the public works department, shall erect
and maintain the appropriate signs at every location where a vehicle must stop
or yield the right of way. The town manager, in an open meeting, will advise
the town council of any authorized changes. (2006 Code)
6-2-8: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Authority To Designate: The town council shall, by resolution,
designate any streets or alleys which are to be limited to one-way traffic.
   B.   Placement Of Signs: When any resolution of the town council designates
any one-way street or alley, the police chief shall, in conjunction with the
public works department, place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no
such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(2006 Code)
6-2-9: TURNING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Limitations And General Safety: The driver of any vehicle shall not
turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in
a business district and shall not upon any other street so turn a vehicle
unless such movement can be made in safety and without interfering with other
traffic.
   B.   Course Traveled:
      1.   Placement Of Markers: The police chief is authorized to place
markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the
course to be traveled by vehicles turning at such intersections, and such
course to be traveled as so indicated may conform to or be other than as
prescribed by law.
      2.   Obedience: When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are
placed within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles
turning, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
   C.   Right, Left Or U-Turns:
      1.   Placement Of Signs: The police chief, on approval by the town
council, is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at which drivers
of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place proper signs
at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between
certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event the same
shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or such signs may be removed when such
turns are permitted.
      2.   Obedience: Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no
right, left or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of any such sign. (2006 Code)
6-2-10: PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Permit Required: No procession or parade, except funeral processions,
shall be held without first securing a permit from the police chief, and all
such requests for permits shall state the time, place of formation, proposed
line of march, destination and such other regulations as the police chief may
set forth therein.
   B.   Identification: A funeral procession composed of a procession of
vehicles shall be identified by such methods as may be determined and
designated by the police chief.
   C.   Drivers In Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practical and safe.
   D.   Driving Between Vehicles Prohibited: No driver of a vehicle shall drive
between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while
they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated. This
provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is controlled by
traffic control signals or the police. (2006 Code)
6-2-11: TRUCKS AND LARGE VEHICLES:
   A.   Defined: A "truck or large vehicle" shall be defined as any vehicle,
trailer or combination, with eight (8) wheels or more.
   B.   Restriction: No person shall operate or park any truck or large vehicle
in any residentially zoned area within the town.
   C.   Placement Of Signs: The town may cause signs to be posted as necessary
to regulate the entrance of trucks and large vehicles into residentially zoned
areas.
   D.   Vehicle Operator; Responsibility: Whenever any truck or large vehicle
is operated in violation of the provisions of this section, the person
operating the truck or large vehicle at the time of the violation shall be
responsible for such violation and is subject to the penalty therefor. This may
include damages that result from the violation.
   E.   Exceptions:
      1.   This restriction shall not apply to anyone operating a truck or
large vehicle for deliveries or pickups in a residentially zoned area;
provided, that the operator shall use the shortest and most direct route to and
from the nearest nonresidential street for such a trip and shall not park
longer than required to load or unload the truck or large vehicle
expeditiously.
      2.   This restriction shall not apply to anyone operating a truck or
large vehicle in a residentially zoned area if the origin or destination of the
trip is not accessible from a nonresidential area. In this case, the operator
shall use the shortest and most direct route between the origin or destination
and the nearest nonresidential street and the operator shall not park on the
street.
      3.   This restriction shall not apply to the operation of emergency
vehicles.
      4.   This restriction shall not apply during special events, such as
parades, where no alternative route is available. (2006 Code)
6-2-12: COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND ROLLERBLADES:
No person upon roller skates, rollerblades or riding any coaster, toy vehicle
or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a street on
a crosswalk, and, when crossing, such person shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians. (2006
Code)
6-2-13: USE OF ENGINE BRAKES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor vehicle on any street or highway within
the town limits with the assistance of an engine brake (commonly referred to as
a "jake brake") or similar device. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
6-3-1: Authority To Erect Signs; Obedience
6-3-2: Method Of Parking
6-3-3: Blocking Traffic
6-3-4: Adjacent To Schools
6-3-5: Vehicles On Sidewalks
6-3-6: Handicapped Areas
6-3-7: Adjacent To Parks
6-3-8: Abandoned Vehicles
 
Notes
1 1. ARS title 28, chapter 6, article 14.
6-3-1: AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS; OBEDIENCE:
The police chief, after discussion with the public works director and with the
approval of the town manager, may erect signs requiring parking at an angle to
the curb, allowing parking on the left hand curb on one-way streets, notifying
drivers that parking is prohibited, and restricting parking in any way that may
be necessary. When such signs have been erected, no person shall stop or stand
a vehicle in disobedience to such parking restrictions. The town manager, in an
open meeting, will advise the town council of any authorized changes. (2006
Code)
6-3-2: METHOD OF PARKING:
Except as otherwise provided by resolution of the town council, every vehicle
stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are adjacent curbs shall be so
stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such vehicle parallel to and
within eighteen inches (18") of the right hand curb. (2006 Code)
6-3-3: BLOCKING TRAFFIC:
   A.   Streets: No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle, or
other vehicle, upon a street in the town in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than twenty feet (20') of the width of
the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, except that a person
may stop temporarily, in the actual loading or unloading of passengers, or when
necessary, in the observance of traffic signs or signals of the police.
   B.   Alleys: No person shall park a motor vehicle, or other vehicle, within
an alley or entrance to a private driveway, except for the loading or unloading
of materials, and not then unless such loading or unloading can be accomplished
without blocking the alley to the free movement of vehicular traffic. (2006
Code)
6-3-4: ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS:
When signs are erected indicating no parking on that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any such
designated place for one hour before school opens until one hour after school
closes on any school day. (2006 Code)
6-3-5: VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall park any vehicle, whether in usable condition or not, nor shall
an owner permit his vehicle to be parked upon any sidewalk in the town. (2006
Code)
6-3-6: HANDICAPPED AREAS:
   A.   Insignia Display: No person shall park a vehicle in a parking space set
aside and identified for use only by persons with physical disabilities, unless
the vehicle has displayed thereon a distinguishing insignia as provided in
section 28-881 of the Arizona Revised Statutes.
   B.   Identified Spaces: Subsection A of this section shall apply only to
those parking spaces that are identified with standard signs or other markers,
as approved by the police.
   C.   Consent For Enforcement: Any person or business which causes a parking
space to be set aside for use only by persons with physical disabilities and
identifies such parking space by the methods described in subsection B of this
section, shall be deemed to have given consent to the police to enforce a
violation of this section, when such violation occurs on the private property
of such person or business. (2006 Code)
6-3-7: ADJACENT TO PARKS:
No person shall park a vehicle or allow a vehicle to remain parked on any
public road or alley adjacent to or abutting any town park during the hours
between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. The police
may remove any vehicle in violation at the expense of the owner. (2006 Code)
6-3-8: ABANDONED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle left unattended, after being tagged by the police, for more than
forty eight (48) hours within the right of way of a highway, road, street or
other public thoroughfare or on any sidewalk, is declared to be an abandoned
vehicle and the police may forthwith remove the same from the sidewalks or
streets of the town at the expense of the owner of such vehicle. (2006 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC PARKS 1
SECTION:
7-1-1: Supervision
7-1-2: Presence In Parks
7-1-3: Intoxicating Beverages; Permit Required
7-1-4: Riding Vehicles On Grounds
7-1-5: Improper Use Of Facilities
7-1-6: Animals
7-1-7: Camping
7-1-8: Garbage And Trash
7-1-9: Glass Bottles Or Containers
7-1-10: Tennis And Handball Courts
7-1-11: Use Contrary To Regulations; Permit Required
7-1-12: Additional Rules And Regulations; Authority
 
Notes
1 1. ARS § 9-494.
7-1-1: SUPERVISION:
The town shall supervise all parks, park scheduling and park maintenance. Any
construction, alterations, additions or repairs to the parks effected by anyone
other than the town shall require written advance permission and comply with
all specifications imposed by the town or its designated agent for such
purposes. (2006 Code)
7-1-2: PRESENCE IN PARKS:
   A.   Hours Authorized: It is unlawful for any person to be upon or remain
upon any town park, ball field or golf course between eleven o'clock (11:00)
P.M. and dawn of each day.
   B.   Exception: Any authorized town employee or such other person as
authorized in writing by the chief of police shall be excepted from subsection
A of this section. (2006 Code)
7-1-3: INTOXICATING BEVERAGES; PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall consume any spirituous liquor of any kind in the town
playgrounds, ball fields or parks, except by written permit issued by the town
manager or other person designated by the town council. Designated areas where
absolutely no drinking of spirituous liquors of any kind whatsoever is allowed
in the parks are the playground equipment areas, ball stands, basketball
courts, tennis courts, fenced ball fields and swimming pools. Designated areas
where alcoholic beverages may be consumed shall be determined by the town
council and shall be posted on the permit. The period of use shall be posted on
the permit. A duplicate of the permit shall be retained by the issuer of the
permit. (2006 Code)
7-1-4: RIDING VEHICLES ON GROUNDS:
No person shall at any time drive or ride on any automobile, truck, motorcycle,
motor scooter or other motor vehicle upon the grounds of any town park,
playground, ball field or golf course, except in public streets running through
such premises or within designated parking areas located upon such premises,
without the written permission of the town manager or such other person as the
town council may designate. (2006 Code)
7-1-5: IMPROPER USE OF FACILITIES:
No person shall damage or improperly use the toilets, or water and sewer
facilities in any town park, playground, ball park or golf course or cause the
lighting facilities to be turned on during other than normal hours, without the
written consent of the town manager or such other person as the town council
may designate. (2006 Code)
7-1-6: ANIMALS:
No animals shall be allowed in town parks, golf course, playgrounds or ball
fields, unless such animals are leashed or in direct control of the owner.
(2006 Code)
7-1-7: CAMPING:
No person shall sleep or camp overnight in any town park or its adjacent
streets, except by written permit issued by the town manager or other person
designated by the town council. (2006 Code)
7-1-8: GARBAGE AND TRASH:
No person shall dump, spill, deposit, place, throw or leave refuse, rubbish,
filthy or odor causing objects, substances or other trash in the parks,
playgrounds, ball fields, golf course or any other town owned or operated
recreation area. No trash, except that associated with picnic activity at the
park or recreation area shall be deposited in the trash receptacles provided by
the town at those locations. (2006 Code)
7-1-9: GLASS BOTTLES OR CONTAINERS:
No person shall bring glass bottles or containers into or on the premises of
the parks, playgrounds, ball fields, golf course or any other town operated
recreation area. (2006 Code)
7-1-10: TENNIS AND HANDBALL COURTS:
The following rules and regulations shall apply to all public tennis and
handball courts in the town:
   A.   Skateboards, Roller Skates Or Blades: No skateboards, roller skates or
rollerblades on courts.
   B.   Vehicles: No bicycles, motorcycles or other types of vehicles allowed
on courts.
   C.   Shoes: Tennis or flat, soft-soled shoes required on courts.
   D.   Play Limit: Be courteous; limit play to one hour or match when other
players are waiting.
   E.   Use Limits: Tennis courts are for playing tennis only. Handball courts
are for playing handball only.
   F.   Destruction: No writing or drawing on or defacing of buildings, walls,
sidewalks, curbs, roadways, fences or courts.
   G.   Penalty: Any violation of any provision of this section, except
subsection F of this section, shall be a petty offense. A violation of
subsection F of this section shall be a class one misdemeanor. Violators are
subject to the penalty provisions provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (2006 Code)
7-1-11: USE CONTRARY TO REGULATIONS; PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any individual or group who wishes to use parks in a manner contrary to this
chapter must obtain a park use permit from the town manager or other person
designated by the town council. (2006 Code)
7-1-12: ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS; AUTHORITY:
The town council may adopt additional rules and regulations from time to time
as they deem reasonably necessary for the safety and efficient use by the
public of the parks. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TREES, PLANTS AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Applicability
7-2-2: Administrative Authority
7-2-3: Definitions
7-2-4: Tree Planting, Maintenance And Removal
7-2-5: Violation And Penalty
7-2-1: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter provides authority over all trees, plants and shrubs, located
within street rights of way (street trees) and public places of the town (park
trees); and trees, plants and shrubs located on private property that
constitute a hazard or threat as described herein. (2006 Code)
7-2-2: ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY:
The town council or its designee shall implement, administer and enforce this
chapter, and may establish rules, regulations and procedures to implement,
administer and enforce this chapter. When requested by the town council, the
town arborist shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend
upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of his/her work.
(2006 Code)
7-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
PARK TREE(S): Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the town or to which the
public has free access as a park, including town owned cemeteries and grounds
surrounding town owned buildings.
REMOVE OR REMOVAL: The actual removal of a tree, by digging up, cutting down,
or the effective removal through damage.
STREET TREE(S): Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the town.
TOWN ARBORIST: Any person employed or retained by the town wherein his/her
capacity has obtained current certification from the international society of
arboriculture (ISA) as a certified arborist.
TREE TOPPING: Tree topping is the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger
than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so
as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree.
TREE(S): Any self-supporting, woody plant of a species which normally grows at
maturity to an overall height of a minimum of ten feet (10'), and is six inches
(6") or greater in diameter at a height of four feet six inches (4'6") from the
ground. (2006 Code)
7-2-4: TREE PLANTING, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL:
It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of planting, cutting, trimming, pruning, removing, spraying or
otherwise treating street or park trees within the town without first providing
sufficient proof of competence, certification or licensing to the town council
or its designee. A permit will then be issued (at no charge) to the qualifying
party, with an outline of the scope of work to be performed and assure
compliance with standards, specifications and inspections. No such proof or
permit will be required of any public service company or town employee doing
such work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors.
   A.   Street Trees To Be Planted: The following list constitutes the official
street tree species for the town. No species other than those included in this
list may be planted as street trees without the written permission of the town
council or its designee. The town arborist will keep on file "The Town of Star
Valley Tree Selection Guide", a recommended list of other trees, not designated
"Street Trees", that will grow well in our area.
Small Trees   Medium Trees Large Trees
(25' Or Less) (25' To 60') (Over 60')
Small Trees                Medium Trees              Large Trees
(25' Or Less)              (25' To 60')              (Over 60')
Amur maple                 Green or red ash          Northern red oak
English hawthorn           Honey locust (thornless)   
Crabapple                  London plane               
Flowering plum             Callery or flowering pear  
Mayday tree or bird cherry (Pyrus calleryana)         
(Prunus padus)             European mountain ash      
                          Locust (purple robe)       
                          Goldenrain tree            
                          (Koelreuteria paniculata)  
                          Austrian black pine        
 
   B.   Spacing: The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
three (3) species size classes listed in subsection A of this section, and no
trees may be planted closer together than the following: small trees, twenty
five feet (25'); medium trees, thirty five feet (35'); and large trees, forty
feet (40'); except in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape
architect.
   C.   Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: The distance trees may be planted from
curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three (3)
species size classes listed in subsection A of this section. No trees may be
planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two
feet (2'); medium trees, three feet (3'); large trees, four feet (4').
   D.   Distance From Street Corners And Fire Hydrants: No street tree shall be
planted closer than thirty feet (30') of any street corner, measured from the
point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree shall be
planted closer than ten feet (10') of any fire hydrant.
   E.   Utilities: No street tree shall be planted within five (5) lateral feet
of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
No street tree other than those species listed as "small trees" in subsection A
of this section may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of any
overhead utility wire.
   F.   Public Tree Care: The town shall have the right to plant, prune, treat,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to
ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such
public grounds.
The town council or its designee may remove or cause or order to be removed,
any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of
its nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water
lines or other public improvements or is affected with any injurious fungus,
insect or other pest. This section does not prohibit the planting of street
trees by adjacent property owners providing that the selection and location of
said trees are in accordance with subsections A through D of this section.
   G.   Tree Topping: It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person,
firm, or town department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on
public property. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain
trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices
are impractical may be exempted from this subsection at the determination of
the town council or its designee.
   H.   Pruning, Corner Clearance: Every owner of any tree overhanging any
street or right of way within the town shall prune the branches so that such
branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view
of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight
feet (8') above the surface of the street or sidewalk.
Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or
decayed limbs, which constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The town
shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it
interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a streetlight
or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or sign.
   I.   Removal Of Stumps: All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed
below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project
above the surface of the ground. (2006 Code)
7-2-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter or who fails to comply with
any notice issued pursuant to provision of this chapter, upon conviction or
plea of guilty, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each separate offense. Each day during which any violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense.
If after the third offense the violation is not remedied, the violation will be
treated as a class one misdemeanor under subsection
1-4-1A of this code. If, as a result of the violation of any provision of this
chapter, the injury, mutilation, or death of a street or park tree on town
owned property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement, or the appraised
dollar value of such tree, shall be borne by the party in violation. The value
of trees shall be determined in accordance with the latest revision of "A Guide
To The Professional Evaluation Of Landscape Trees Specimen Shrubs And
Evergreens", as published by the International Society of Arboriculture. (2006
Code)
CHAPTER 3
RIGHT OF WAY
SECTION:
7-3-1: Right Of Way Permit
7-3-1: RIGHT OF WAY PERMIT:
Any person or entity desiring to make a street cut or bore under any town
street, or desiring to perform other construction work within any street right
of way within the town, shall apply for and obtain a town of Star Valley right
of way permit prior to performing any construction within the town right of
way. Said right of way permit will only be given to a person or entity approved
by the town's public works director, or his designee, to work in the right of
way. The town shall not be liable for any loss, damages, or injury, which may
occur as a result of the person or entity performing construction work within
the town's right of way. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
STREET NAMING AND PROPERTY NUMBERING
SECTION:
7-4-1: Purpose
7-4-2: Short Title
7-4-3: Applicability
7-4-4: Severability
7-4-5: Definitions
7-4-6: Definitions Of Thoroughfare Designations
7-4-7: Assigning Numbers To Individual Properties
7-4-8: Street Names
7-4-9: Street Signs
7-4-10: Posting Of Property Numbers
7-4-11: Penalties
7-4-12: Fees
7-4-13: Amendments
7-4-1: PURPOSE:
A chapter adopted to provide for the uniform assignment of property numbers on
all private residences, public buildings, businesses and any other building
used for human occupancy, rights of way, easements or any other access routes;
renaming of existing streets with conflicting or duplicate names and naming of
unnamed and new accesses in order to provide for efficient emergency services
and the safety of Star Valley residents; provide for generation and collection
of fees for assignment of new addresses; provide for the enforcement of said
chapter; and prescribing penalties for the violation thereof. (Ord. O 09-08,
10-6-2009)
7-4-2: SHORT TITLE:
For the purpose of identification these regulations shall be known as the
STREET NAMING AND PROPERTY NUMBERING ORDINANCE FOR STAR VALLEY. (Ord. O 09-08,
10-6-2009)
7-4-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to all unincorporated and nonreservation lands within
the area of Star Valley. (Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-4: SEVERABILITY:
Should any article, section or regulation of this chapter be judicially
declared unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of this chapter as a whole, or any portion thereof other than the
article, section or regulation so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-5: DEFINITIONS:
ADDRESS PREFIXES AND SUFFIXES: Address prefixes are words preceding a street
name and indicating a direction. Address suffixes are words following a street
name and indicating the type of street.
FRONTAGE UNITS: A standard interval in front footage of an existing parcel used
to assign consecutive property numbers, on a street, right of way, easement or
access route beginning from the nearest grid lines.
GRID LINES: Imaginary lines constructed perpendicular and parallel to
baselines. These lines indicate the point where block numbers change from one
hundred (100) to the next higher hundred. The zero point for Gila County is the
NW corner of sec. 27, T4N, R12E.
THOROUGHFARE DESIGNATIONS: Streets are sometimes ranked by function and size,
and each category is assigned a specific name suffix called thoroughfare
designations. (Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-6: DEFINITIONS OF THOROUGHFARE DESIGNATIONS:
BOULEVARD: A street with a median reflecting the boulevard character and so
indicated by the name (also applied to parkways). A major thoroughfare running
in a diagonal direction, rather than east-west or north-south. It must connect
at least two (2) sections and act as a collector.
COURTS: Permanently closed streets such as cul-de-sacs. Horseshoe shaped
streets generally designated by one name throughout their entire length. East-
west streets less than five hundred feet (500') in length.
DRIVES: Winding thoroughfares, diagonal, curvilinear, or other types of roads
not previously mentioned. Roads that meander about and continue through to
other rights of way.
HIGHWAYS: Designated state or federal highways. This term could be used even
when a road generally runs north-south or east-west. U.S. routes are designated
as highways.
INTERSTATE: Roads of the highest order, characterized by limited access, wide
right of way, prohibited adjacent to development and with through traffic
preference.
LANES: Reduced rights of way branching from courts, places, or ways. Curving
streets of less than five hundred feet (500'). An uninterrupted street ending
in a cul-de-sac and generally designated by a name.
LOOPS AND CIRCLES: Circles could be short streets that return to themselves.
Loops could be short drives that begin and end in the same street.
PARKWAYS: (Also see definition of Boulevard.) A special scenic route or park
drive, generally designated by a name.
PATHS: A minor local street running in a diagonal direction, usually between a
north-south "street" and an east-west "avenue"; a path may also be a diagonal
connector between offset portions of a north-south or east-west collector
thoroughfare.
PLACE: A cul-de-sac or permanent dead end road. North-south streets less than
five hundred feet (500') in length.
ROADS: Limited thoroughfares that are frequently used, have heavy traffic
volume, and run in any direction. Secondary facilities connecting with a U.S.
or state primary highway.
STREETS AND AVENUES: Streets run north and south and avenues run east and west,
but this may be reversed in municipal areas previously addressed by other
authorities using a different method.
TRAILS: A diagonal local street serving as a collector for one or more local
thoroughfares.
WAYS: Dead end rights of way under five hundred feet (500') running at oblique
angles to the four (4) points of the compass. If there are three (3) or more
homes off a main road, the road is designated on the grid, even if it is
private. (Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-7: ASSIGNING NUMBERS TO INDIVIDUAL PROPERTIES:
Property numbers for dwelling units and places of business on all public and
private streets shall be assigned by the rural addressing office in accordance
with provisions outlined herein.
   A.   Uniformity: Property numbering shall be uniform, based on street
frontage.
   B.   Consecutive Numbering: Property numbering shall be in a consecutive
manner.
   C.   Prefixes: Pursuant to subsection
7-4-8B of this chapter, all streets deemed to run north from the zero point at
the NW corner of sec. 27, T4N, R12E shall have a "North" prefix designation.
All streets deemed to run south from the zero point shall have a "South" prefix
designation. All streets deemed to run east from the zero point shall have an
"East" prefix designation. All streets deemed to run west from the zero point
shall have a "West" prefix designation.
   D.   Even And Odd Numbering: Even numbers shall always be assigned on one
side of the street and odd numbers shall be assigned on the other. Even numbers
shall be on the north and west sides of streets and odd numbers shall be on the
south and east sides of the streets with the exception of municipal areas
previously addressed by other authorities using a different method. Once
assigned, numbers shall not be arbitrarily altered by utilities, or departments
of the cities or county. If an area is annexed by a municipality, the existing
addresses will be changed at the discretion of the municipality.
   E.   Expansion: The numbering system shall allow for expansion to
accommodate future growth in the area.
   F.   Conformance With Grid System: Numbering shall be in accordance with the
Gila County grid system. Numbers shall change by one every six feet (6').
   G.   Apartments/Condominiums/Group Housing:
      1.   Numbers shall be assigned to the property where a driveway joins the
street; this becomes the street address of all units which face upon the
interior court. Separate internal units of condominiums and apartments shall be
designated with subnumbers or letters, not individual property numbers.
      2.   Mobile home parks shall be treated like other multi-family
developments. The property shall be assigned one number, and each mobile home
shall receive numerical designations such as Sp. 1, Sp. 2, Sp. 3, etc. However,
if the development is a mobile home subdivision built in conformance with
subdivision regulations, the properties shall be treated as individual
residences.
   H.   Business Districts: In a business district, the main entrance to each
separate establishment shall have its own number in sequence with other
businesses along the street.
   I.   Numbering When Streets Change Direction: As a general rule, if a street
changes direction drastically and for a substantial length, the numbering shall
be changed to reflect the orientation with a different baseline and name.
   J.   Street Starting From Different Points On The Same Cross Street: When a
street does not begin at the same location as a parallel street, the numbers
shall begin with the same number measured from the baseline as on the parallel
street. Likewise, buildings facing streets that do not extend to the baseline
at present shall be assigned numbers as if they extended.
   K.   Diagonal Streets: The general principle to apply when numbering
diagonal streets is to treat the street as either a north-south or an east-west
street based on the greatest distance covered in any specific direction.
   L.   Corner Lots: When assigning a number to a building on a corner lot,
assign a number from the street upon which the front entrance faces for a
business; or assign a number from the street from which the driveway enters for
a residence. Dual addresses shall be avoided. If a corner building has two (2)
entrances which both look like front entrances, the decision is based on the
general site layout and driveway entrance.
   M.   Duplex Buildings And Rear Houses On Interior Lots:
      1.   Separate numbers shall be assigned to the entrances of a duplex
dwelling, and for separate single-family dwellings in the rear of other single-
family dwellings (i.e., garage apartments).
      2.   If a commercial enterprise that is part of a residence has a
separate entrance from the street, it may also be assigned a separate number.
If there is a rear entrance or a hidden structure, a post should display the
number on the path leading to the entrance, even if it is reached through
another structure.
      3.   For units on alleys or interior malls where there is no access to a
street paralleling the alley, a name is given to the alley and property numbers
are assigned.
      4.   If there is access from a parallel street, numbers are assigned from
the series on that street. In the case of commercial or industrial facilities,
auxiliary buildings would not be assigned separate numbers, but the main
building, where mail is received and business is transacted, would receive a
property number.
   N.   Numbering On Circle Streets And Horseshoes: Circle streets or horseshoe
shaped streets begin and end touching the same street. It is advisable in such
cases to ignore compass directions and to give numbers on such streets to
correspond with numbering on the streets where the circle originated. The even
numbers shall be on the inside of the circle and the odd numbers shall be on
the outside of the circle. There will be more properties on the outside of the
circle than on the inside of the circle. In such cases, numbers shall be
assigned in a regular manner to the outside of the street, using consecutive
odd numbers. Numbers should then be assigned to the side having the shorter
frontage so that the numbers correspond with property on the opposite side of
the street. Avoid duplication of numbers if an auxiliary street using a
different thoroughfare designation carries the same number as the main street.
(Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-8: STREET NAMES:
   A.   Choice Of Names: Names should be chosen that relate to the scale and
location of the project.
      1.   Objectives: Name should be pleasant sounding, appropriate, easy to
read (so that the public, and children in particular, can handle the name in an
emergency situation), and should add to pride of home or business ownership.
      2.   Categories: Large developments to use a single, significant
category; small subdivisions should use the same category as the surrounding or
adjacent area, which helps establish location identity.
      3.   Unacceptable Street Names: Numerical names (1st, 2nd); alphabetical
letter (A, B, C, etc.); surnames of living persons (pioneer families with
accompanying documentation excluded); frivolous, complicated, or undesirable
names; unconventional spelling; compound names should be used sparingly and not
on short streets.
      4.   Name Length: A complete road name shall consist of no more than
sixteen (16) spaces, including road name, spaces between and the county signing
approved abbreviation for road suffix.
      5.   Complete Name: A complete name shall consist of no more than four
(4) words, including prefix and suffix. Examples:
         a.   North Toya Vista Road.
            (1)   Prefix (1 word), primary (2 words), suffix (1 word).
         b.   South Calle De Caballos.
            (1)   Prefix (1 word), primary (3 words). Primary includes the
suffix equivalent.
   B.   Prefixes: All street names shall begin with one directional prefix,
either N., S., E., or W., which shall be assigned with permanent addresses.
Additional unnecessary prefixes and suffixes shall be avoided. Combinations of
directions are not acceptable. Example: Northwest Sierra Circle.
   C.   Suffixes: Boulevard, Drive, Road and Parkway for arterial highways used
with the discretion of the rural addressing office. Also acceptable are Lane,
Avenue, Street, Loop, Circle, Court, Path, Trail and any other designation
consistent with the intent of this section reviewed and approved by rural
addressing staff.
   D.   Name Duplication: Similar sounding names are considered to be
duplication regardless of spelling. No duplication of names is permitted within
the projected service area of the
9-1-1 emergency response system. Preferably, the avoidance of duplication
should be countywide due to the possibility of future urbanization.
   E.   Continuity:
      1.   A continuous street, or one proposed to be continuous, should bear
the same name throughout, even though it changes directions. If it is
interrupted by a channel, freeway, railroad, etc., and eventual connection is
not probable, the segments may bear different names.
      2.   No separate name is to be used for a cul-de-sac that provides street
frontage for less than three (3) lots or units. The name shall be the same as
that of the intersecting street. Where there is a series of long and short cul-
de-sacs, all should have separate names.
   F.   Existing Streets Naming And Renaming:
      1.   Rural addressing personnel shall determine the need to name an
existing street, right of way or private access determined upon criteria set
forth in this section. Proposed naming may also be initiated by citizen
petitions in accordance with this subsection F. Citizen petitions must have
signatures of at least fifty percent (50%) of the residents and/or property
owners who reside and/or own property adjacent the street subject to the
proposed naming.
      2.   Rural addressing personnel shall determine the need to rename an
existing street, right of way, or private access, based upon criteria set forth
in this section. Proposed renaming may also be initiated by citizen petition in
accordance with this subsection F. Citizen petitions must have signatures of at
least fifty percent (50%) of the residents and/or property owners who reside
and/or own property adjacent the street subject to the proposed renaming.
      3.   For proposed changes to an existing street, right of way or private
access which has been identified as meeting the criteria for necessary naming
or renaming, rural addressing personnel shall proceed with one of the two (2)
methods set forth in subsection F4 of this section for public notification. The
method shall be determined by a standard of numbers to notify, economics and
time constraints.
      4.   Rural addressing personnel shall notify the public of a proposed
road naming or name change by one of the following methods:
         a.   Rural addressing personnel shall originate a public notice for
publication in three (3) consecutive issues of the local newspaper showing the
old name, the proposed name change, a sketch of the road in question, a
description of the policy to oppose this change, the data for filing objections
as well as the data scheduled for the renaming to go before the town council
for action. The public will be given two (2) weeks from the last publish date
to file objection petitions as set forth in subsection F5 of this section.
         b.   Rural addressing personnel shall originate a letter describing
the naming or name change and a sketch of the road in question to be sent
directly to all property owners of record along the road proposed to be named
or renamed. This letter shall state the reason for naming or renaming the road,
the policy for filing objections to the change as well as the date to respond
to the name change and the date the matter is scheduled to go before the town
council for action. The property owners will be given a minimum of three (3)
weeks from the date the letters are sent to file objection petitions as set
forth in subsection F5 of this section.
      5.   To file objections to name changes initiated by the rural addressing
staff, petition, or town council, residents and/or property owners must submit
an alternate petition or objection in writing to the engineering services
department in accordance with the time periods stated in subsection F4 of this
section. Petitions must have signatures of at least fifty one percent (51%) of
the residents and/or property owners who reside and/or own property adjacent
the street subject to the proposed naming or renaming. Petitioners must have
agreed to a name to be used as an alternative to that proposed by the rural
addressing office or the town council. To submit an objection in writing to a
proposed name change, the resident and/or property owner should include the
name of the road to be changed and their reason for objecting to it.
      6.   If proposed name changes are not objected to or if alternative names
presented by residents and/or landowners are approved, changes may be adopted
by the Gila County and/or town council at their next regularly scheduled
meeting.
      7.   After the granting of a name change, any subsequent proposed name
change shall not be considered for a period of five (5) years.
      8.   All renaming of streets not required by this chapter will be done at
the expense of the person or group submitting the request of name change. The
fees will be set in accordance to the rural addressing fee schedule approved by
the town council and the fee must be receipted in the engineering services
office prior to proceeding with the request. A petition will need to be
completed, following the steps as stated in subsection F1 of this section. The
petition will be presented to the town council for approval.
   G.   Guidelines For Renaming Existing Streets: The following guidelines
shall be followed for renaming existing streets which have names that are
duplicated within Gila County. They are not listed in order of preference or
importance.
      1.   Does one street have any historical reason for having the name it
has?
      2.   Which street has the least number of houses on it and thus would
require the least number of address changes?
      3.   Which street has had its name for the longest period of time?
      4.   Is the name appropriate according to the other street names in the
neighborhood?
      5.   Which street name is used for the longest distance or the most
traveled section?
   H.   Street Names And Numbering In New Subdivisions: Street names and
numbering shall be determined in accordance with the street naming and
numbering policy adopted by resolution of the town council. Along with the
preliminary plat map, the subdivider shall submit a street naming proposal to
the department of engineering services for use by the rural addressing office.
Said proposal shall include copies of: 1) a map of the overall tract
illustrating street layout, the name proposed for each street, and 2) an
alphabetical list of the proposed street names, together with an alternate name
for each name proposed. The rural addressing office shall review the proposed
street names for duplication of names, appropriateness of names, and for
overall compliance with the street naming policy. Approved street names shall
be included in the final plat map which is submitted to the town council for
approval and for recordation. (Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-9: STREET SIGNS:
   A.   Characteristics: Signs used on county roads and public rights of way
will be approved by the director of engineering services and will be brown and
white in color. Signs used on private roads or easements will also be approved
by the director of engineering services and will be brown and white in color.
   B.   Installation: Street name signs, approved by the director of
engineering services shall be installed within subdivisions by the subdivider
at the intersection of all streets and highways and at such other locations as
may be determined to be necessary by the director of engineering services.
(Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-10: POSTING OF PROPERTY NUMBERS:
   A.   Methods And Characteristics For Posting Designated Street Addresses:
      1.   Property numbers shall be attached to dwelling units or buildings,
located so as to be visible from and oriented toward the street from which
address is taken. These numbers shall be of comparable size and material as
those initially provided by the rural addressing office.
      2.   When a house or building is some distance from a road, or when view
of the house or building is blocked by trees or shrubs, property number shall
be on a sign attached to a tree, fence, gate, or lawn stake.
      3.   On a corner lot, the property number shall face street named in the
address.
      4.   Numerals indicating the official address for each principal building
or each front entrance to such building shall be posted in a manner as to be
legible and distinguishable from the street on which the property is located.
      5.   If there is a rear entrance or a hidden structure, a post shall
display the number on the path leading to the entrance.
      6.   In the case where a principal building is occupied by more than one
business or family dwelling unit (duplex), each separate front entrance shall
display a separate number.
      7.   Devices providing numbering for directional assistance may be placed
throughout an apartment or condominium complex. Where parking facilities are
not attached to the dwelling units, no property numbers shall be affixed to
said parking facilities.
   B.   Responsibilities To Post Property Numbers:
      1.   Each owner or occupant or every person in charge of any residence or
building to which a number has been assigned may be notified in writing by the
rural addressing office of the number assigned to the same at any time after
the adoption of this chapter.
      2.   Within sixty (60) days after the receipt of such written
notification from the rural addressing office the owner or occupant or person
in charge of a residence or building to which a number has been assigned shall
affix the number in a conspicuous manner in a conspicuous place.
      3.   It shall be the duty of such owner or occupant or person in charge
thereof upon affixing the new number to remove any different number which might
be mistaken for or confused with the number assigned to said structure by the
department.
      4.   If a property number is damaged, lost, or in any way destroyed, said
number shall be replaced immediately by the owner, occupant or person in charge
of the residence or building at their expense. Said replacement shall be
purchased from the rural addressing office or shall be of comparable material
and size as the original numbers posted by the rural addressing office. (Ord. O
09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   Enforcement By Civil Penalty: In the event that the owner or occupant
or person in charge of any residence, building or structure to which a correct
address has been assigned refuses to comply with the terms of this chapter
within sixty (60) days of notification by failing to affix the number assigned
or to remove any old numbers affixed to such house, or house entrance, or
elsewhere, which may be confused with the number assigned thereto, they shall
be subject to civil penalty.
   B.   Violations:
      1.   For a first violation of this chapter, the penalty shall be not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) for an individual person or one hundred dollars
($100.00) for an enterprise, and shall not be more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) for an individual person or six hundred dollars ($600.00) for an
enterprise.
      2.   For a second or subsequent violation arising out of the same facts,
the penalty shall not be less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for an
individual person or two hundred dollars ($200.00) for an enterprise, and shall
not be more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for an individual person or one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for an enterprise.
   C.   Jurisdiction Of Hearing Officer: All violations of this chapter shall
result in a civil penalty being assessed and shall fall under the jurisdiction
of a county hearing officer appointed for this purpose. The hearing officer
shall not have the jurisdiction to impose criminal penalties.
   D.   Rules Of Procedure: All rules of procedure for hearings in front of the
county hearing officer shall apply to civil violations arising under this
chapter. (Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-12: FEES:
   A.   A schedule of fees shall be set by the town council to collect monies
to cover expenses incurred during road name changes and property addressing.
The schedule of fees shall be posted in a prominent place in the rural
addressing office and copies shall be available to the public upon request.
   B.   The town council may change the schedule of fees as needed to keep
current with the rising costs without effecting any change in this chapter
itself. (Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
7-4-13: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   The provisions of this chapter may, from time to time, be amended,
supplemented, changed, modified, or repealed at the initiation of the Gila
County engineering services office following a public hearing at which parties
in interest and other citizens have an opportunity to be heard.
      1.   Upon initiation of a hearing to amend, the engineering services
office shall set a date, time and place and cause notice of same to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the county at least thirty
(30) days prior to the date of said hearing. (Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Application For Service; Deposit
8-1-2: Town And Consumer Responsibilities; Discontinuation
8-1-3: Water Supply And Storage Requirements
8-1-4: Temporary Service
8-1-5: Discontinuance Of Service; Change Of Occupancy
8-1-6: Guidelines For Documenting Available Groundwater Resources
8-1-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE; DEPOSIT:
   A.   Compliance Required: A consumer shall make application for service to
the town at the town hall in person or by first class mail and shall make the
deposits as required in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Application; Deposit:
      1.   All consumers, before domestic water shall be furnished to them,
shall submit a deposit to the chief fiscal officer or his authorized
representative in a sufficient amount to protect the town against loss
occasioned by nonpayment of water bill. This amount shall be determined by the
procedures outlined in section
8-4-3 of this title.
      2.   The individual, partnership, business or corporation in whose name
the application and deposit are made shall be responsible for payment of all
bills incurred in connection with the service furnished. This is in addition to
any other persons who may be found liable under the law.
      3.   A separate deposit shall be required for each meter installed.
      4.   The deposit receipt shall not be negotiable.
      5.   Upon discontinuance of service by the consumer, if all bills have
been paid, the town shall refund the deposit.
      6.   Where the town finds that a request for a deposit refund is
questionable, the town shall require the consumer to produce the deposit
receipt.
      7.   Upon discontinuance of service for nonpayment of bills, the town
shall apply the deposit toward settlement of the account. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-
2012)
8-1-2: TOWN AND CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITIES; DISCONTINUATION:
   A.   Town Responsibilities And Liabilities:
      1.   The town shall not assume the responsibility of inspecting
consumer's piping or apparatus and shall not be responsible therefor.
      2.   The town shall refuse service unless consumer's lines or piping are
installed in such manner as to prevent cross connections or backflow.
      3.   Under normal conditions, the town shall notify a consumer of any
anticipated interruption of service.
      4.   The town shall not be responsible for negligence of third persons or
forces beyond the control of the town, resulting in any interruption of
service.
   B.   Consumer Responsibilities:
      1.   Piping on consumer's premises shall be so arranged that the
connections are conveniently located with respect to the municipal water system
lines or main.
      2.   If consumer's piping on consumer's premises is so arranged that it
is necessary for the town to provide additional meters, each place of metering
shall be considered as a separate and individual account.
      3.   Where a meter is placed on a consumer's premises, the consumer shall
provide a suitable place for the meter, which place shall be unobstructed and
accessible at all times to the meter reader.
      4.   Consumer shall furnish and maintain a private cutoff valve on
consumer's side of the meter, and the town shall provide a like valve on the
town's side of each meter.
      5.   Consumer shall install consumer's piping and apparatus and maintain
it in a safe and efficient manner and at consumer's own expense, in accordance
with the town's rules and regulations and in full compliance with the
regulations of the state department of health services.
      6.   Consumer shall safeguard the town's property placed on consumer's
premises and shall permit access to it only by the authorized representatives
of the town.
      7.   In the event of any loss or damage to the property of the town being
used to provide water service to consumer, consumer shall pay to the town the
cost of the necessary repairs or replacements, and consumer shall assume any
liability otherwise resulting. The town shall add the amount of the loss or
damage to consumer's bill, and, if the amount is not paid, the town shall
discontinue service to consumer.
      8.   Only consumer, members of consumer's household, guests, tenants and
employees of consumer shall use water furnished by the town. Consumer shall not
sell water to any other person or permit any other person to use water.
      9.   During a critical water condition, as determined by the town or
another public agency, consumer shall use water only for those purposes which
the town shall specify. Consumer's disregard for this rule shall be sufficient
cause for discontinuance of service or refusal of renewed service.
      10.   If consumer alters the grade of the land surrounding any of the
town's meters or other water system facilities, such that alteration of the
facility is necessitated thereby, a consumer shall pay to the town actual costs
of alteration by town. The town shall add the amount of the costs to consumer's
bill, and, if the amount is not paid, the town shall discontinue service to
consumer.
      11.   Consumer shall obtain and maintain a connection to an approved
sewer or septic system.
   C.   Discontinuation:
      1.   a. Upon receipt of an official notice from the sanitary district
that a consumer's sewer service is subject to disconnection on a date specific,
the town may discontinue water service to the consumer no more than three (3)
days prior to the disconnection date.
         b.   Prior to discontinuation of water service under this subsection,
the town or sanitary district will provide the consumer with at least ten (10)
days' notice of such discontinuation. If prior to discontinuation of water
service, the consumer provides the town with proof that the consumer's sewer
service is no longer subject to disconnection, water service shall not be
discontinued.
      2.   The town may discontinue water service without notice for any of the
following reasons:
         a.   To prevent fraud or abuse.
         b.   The consumer's wilful disregard of or refusal to comply with this
chapter.
         c.   To prevent or stop any serious public health hazard, including,
but not limited to, lack of connection to an approved sewer or septic system or
the discharge of sewage in any manner other than to an approved sewer or septic
system. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-1-3: WATER SUPPLY AND STORAGE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   At the time of the issuance of any building permit, the permittee shall
pay the then existing water development fees set forth in section
8-5-2 of this title.
   B.   1. Notwithstanding subsection A of this section, a new development may
provide the town with a new water supply in lieu of paying the technical
studies recapture fee and the water supply recapture fee set forth in section
8-5-3 of this title. Such new water supply shall be credited only at the site
of such new development and in no case shall any transferable credits be
created, recognized or allowed for sale.
      2.   Any new water supply provided pursuant to subsection B1 of this
section shall be capable of producing the greater of 0.4 gallons of water per
minute for each equivalent residential unit (as defined by section
8-5-2 of this title) needed for the development, or thirty five (35) gallons
per minute.
      3.   For the purposes of this section, a "new water supply" shall mean
water that is not accessible by and does not impact or affect the town's
current water system or supplies.
   C.   This section shall not apply to building units erected upon property
which receives or has previously received metered water service from the town,
as long as the new building unit(s) erected upon the property do(es) not
increase the number of equivalent residential units it uses, and a water
development fee has been paid for each equivalent residential unit the property
uses.
   D.   All persons or entities who establish water service requiring new or
upgraded public water service facilities shall bear all costs associated with
the establishment or upgrading of the water service facilities to meet the
water demands and requirements of the new use.
   E.   In order to ensure the proper and orderly development of the public
water system, it may be necessary for the water superintendent to require of a
developer the construction of water system facilities over and above the needs
of a developer's project.
      1.   In such instances, the developer is entitled to enter into a water
facilities recapture agreement with the town, whereby the developer may be
reimbursed for any expenses associated with the oversizing of water system
facilities for any future users of the water system facilities.
      2.   In no event shall a developer recover more than one hundred percent
(100%) of the cost representing construction of the upgraded or oversized
facilities.
   F.   All planned improvements and alterations of the town's water system
facilities shall be approved prior to construction, and shall pass final
inspection prior to town's acceptance of the construction.
      1.   The town shall receive title to all improvements and alterations,
free and clear of all liens or encumbrances.
      2.   All water system facilities shall be constructed within dedicated
easements or, if necessary, upon land for which title is deeded to the town,
upon completion of the improvements and alterations.
   G.   All construction and alterations to the water system facilities shall
be governed by a two (2) year warranty for parts and labor which will benefit
the town.
      1.   The two (2) year warranty shall commence upon the date the town
finally approves the construction and has received title to the constructed
water system facility.
      2.   During the course of construction or alteration of the town's water
system, the town shall be held harmless from all claims arising from the course
of construction by all contractors, and all owners or employees of contractors.
   H.   Reserved.
   I.   When a homeowner extends public water mains or fire protection
facilities solely for the benefit of his or her residence, he or she shall be
entitled to enter into a special recapture agreement, whereby the homeowner is
entitled to receive for each lateral connection to the public water main a sum
of money equal to the following formula, the money to be collected from anyone
wishing to construct a service connection to the main by the water department
as a recapture fee and forwarded to the homeowner:
Total homeowner cost to construct main divided by the total number of building
units that could be connected to that main (based on number of lots times the
density per each lot that could be served in effect at the time the special
recapture agreement is executed).
      1.   This recapture program shall be limited to a period of ten (10)
years after the water department's acceptance of the facilities.
      2.   If a person builds on a lot or parcel that could be served by these
facilities, but does not desire public water service, the fee is due before
issuance of a building permit.
   J.   In the event town monies are used to construct public water mains,
pressure booster facilities, and/or fire protection facilities, a special
recapture condition is implied, whereby the town may recover such monies based
on a per lot or unit served pro rata division of the entire monies expended for
such facilities on any particular construction project.
   K.   1. Specifications and requirements for the design and construction of
facilities necessary for the expansion of the public water system shall be on
file in the office of the public works engineer and with the town clerk.
      2.   In order to ensure its proper and orderly development, the water
superintendent shall review all plans and documents relating to the expansion,
extension or construction of the public water system.
      3.   The water superintendent shall recommend changes necessary to assure
the proper growth of the water system on a townwide basis.
      4.   The water superintendent shall approve all proposed additions to the
public water system if and when such additions are determined to be for the
public benefit as a whole, as well as for the benefit of any particular
development.
      5.   In the event it is necessary to alter or change any specifications
or requirements relating to the design and construction of the public water
system, the water superintendent shall make necessary changes and file them
with the town clerk. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-1-4: TEMPORARY SERVICE:
The town may, in its discretion, supply services for temporary purposes,
provided that the town has water available in excess of the town's regular
needs, and provided the town has available material and equipment necessary to
supply the service. Each applicant must pay to the town in advance the town's
reasonable estimate of the cost of labor and materials for the service. (Ord. O
12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-1-5: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE; CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY:
Consumer shall give the town not less than three (3) days' notice in person or
in writing to discontinue service or to change occupancy. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-
2012)
8-1-6: GUIDELINES FOR DOCUMENTING AVAILABLE GROUNDWATER RESOURCES:
The "Guidelines For Documenting Available Groundwater Resources For New
Developments Within The Town Of Star Valley Limits", a copy of which is
available for review at the office of the clerk during regular business hours,
is hereby adopted and made a part of this code as though fully set forth
herein, to be used in conjunction with section
8-1-3 of this chapter for the evaluation of the adequacy of water supply and
storage facilities for new residential, commercial or industrial units or lots.
(Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 2
EXTENSIONS; DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
8-2-1: Extensions To Mains And Services
8-2-2: Design And Construction Specifications
8-2-1: EXTENSIONS TO MAINS AND SERVICES:
Extensions to water mains and services shall meet the specifications,
regulations, and requirements of the town as to the transmission, distribution,
supply, storage and treatment of water and shall meet with the approval of the
superintendent of the water department. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-2-2: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   All design and construction of facilities for the transmission,
distribution, supply, storage and treatment of water shall conform to Arizona
department of health services, bureau of water quality control, bulletin 10
standard specifications, American Water Works Association (AWWA) specifications
and the fire code.
   B.   All pipe shall be ductile iron or PVC approved by the UPC or other
listed approved products and the water superintendent, inspected and tested to
conform to the requirements of the American Water Works Association. The factor
test and class shall appear on all pipe and couplings. Pipe shall be supported
and installed as recommended by the manufacturer and as approved by the water
superintendent.
   C.   Couplings shall be "ring-tite" or "fluid-tite", or equal, UPC or other
listed approved products, as furnished by the pipe manufacturer. Rubber ring
gaskets shall be in accordance with ASTM D-1869, latest revision.
   D.   Fittings shall be cast iron, UPC or other listed approved products, and
shall conform to ASA specification A-21-10, latest revision, for two hundred
fifty (250) psi working pressure plus water hammer, or equal, and shall have
C1.250 cast into each fitting.
   E.   Fittings shall have "ring-tite" or "fluid-tite" bells for class 150
ductile iron pipe.
   F.   All fittings shall be cement lined, in accordance with ASA
specification A-21-4, except that the lining shall be one-half inch (1/2")
thickness specified.
   G.   All valves shall conform to AWWA tentative standard specification for
gate valves for ordinary waterworks service. Valves shall be double disk iron
body, resilient seat type with nonrising stem. Valves shall have "ring-tite" or
"fluid-tite" bells for class 150 ductile iron pipe.
   H.   Valve boxes shall be of standard, adjustable, heavy pattern, cast iron
extension type roadway boxes. Boxes shall be installed so that no load can be
transmitted from the valve box to the valve. All valves shall have valve boxes
installed.
   I.   All dead ends shall be plugged or capped and fitted with blow offs.
   J.   Blocking for water valves and thrust blocks for water lines shall be in
accordance with the pipe manufacturer's recommendations and approved by the
water superintendent.
   K.   Fire hydrants shall be Waterous WB-67 DDP or Mueller A-423, yellow in
color.
   L.   Disinfection of the water lines shall be in accordance with the
recommendation of the Arizona state department of health services, bureau of
water quality control, and MAG standard specification 611.
   M.   Tracing wire, 16-gauge minimum, shall be buried with all mains and
services.
   N.   All services shall be iron pipe size pack-joint polyethylene.
   O.   Service saddles shall be malleable iron or bronze, single or double
strap.
   P.   All services shall have corporation stops and lock wing angle or ball
valves.
   Q.   All service boxes shall have steel lids with minimum of eighteen inch
(18") bury for services at the box. Service fittings shall be set twenty inches
(20") below maximum anticipated finished grade.
   R.   All DIP and PVC pipe must conform to AWWA standards.
   S.   All specifications shall be subject to the interpretation of the water
superintendent. All materials must be inspected by the water superintendent,
and written approval of their acceptance must be given before their
installation. All facilities are subject to the approval and acceptance of the
water superintendent to ensure compatibility with existing facilities.
   T.   The town shall charge a supervision and inspection fee of 2.5 percent
of the total award of the water system facilities construction contract and of
all other costs necessary to distribute water within a subdivision.
   U.   Subdivider shall provide certification of the entire water
transmission, distribution, supply, storage and treatment of water.
   V.   The town shall determine whether the general contractor and the
contract for purchasing, installing and constructing of any of the water system
facilities are acceptable. If the town determines that the prices on any or all
phases of construction are excessive, the town reserves the right to construct
the facilities itself at a lesser cost or to employ a contractor or the labor
necessary to build the system at a cost less than that of the contract
previously determined to be excessively high.
   W.   If the town determines that the cost of construction on any or all of
the above facilities is justified but excessive relative to the efficient
utilization of the facilities, the town may substitute the use of a fee,
nonrefundable, to be charged to the developer. These monies, to be specified by
the town, shall be used by the town for the improvement of the municipal water
system.
   X.   All storage and pumping facilities shall conform to Arizona department
of health services, bureau of water quality control, bulletin 10
specifications, American Water Works Association specifications and the fire
code.
   Y.   Whenever any requirements of any of the noted specification standards
conflict, the more stringent standard shall prevail. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 3
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose; Responsibilities
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Approval
8-3-4: Installation Of Devices
8-3-5: Schedule Of Premises Requiring Backflow Preventive Devices
8-3-6: Approved Backflow Preventive Assemblies
8-3-7: Maintenance, Testing And Records
8-3-8: Inspections
8-3-9: Discontinuance Of Service
8-3-10: Existing Devices And Users
8-3-11: Disclaimer Of Liability
8-3-1: PURPOSE; RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   In order to protect the public water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution by isolating within the user's system
any contaminants or pollutants which could backflow into the public water
supply; and to provide for the monitoring and enforcement of a continuing
program of backflow prevention, which will prevent the contamination or
pollution of Star Valley's potable water supply, the following rules,
regulation and guidelines shall be and are hereby adopted and shall henceforth
be enforced within the town.
   B.   The water department (hereinafter called the "department") of the town
is invested with the authority and responsibility for the implementation of an
effective cross connection control program, and for the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter, and to prevent water from unapproved sources to
enter the potable water system. No water service connection to premises of a
type specified in this chapter shall be installed or maintained unless the
public water supply is protected as required by this chapter.
   C.   The user shall not allow any pollutants and contaminants to enter the
public potable water system, from the point of delivery from the public potable
water system. The user shall at his own expense install, operate, test and
maintain approved backflow preventive assemblies as directed by the department.
(Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between
the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing
fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the vessel. An approved air
gap shall be at least double the diameter of the supply pipe, measured
vertically, above the overflow rim of the vessel, and in no case less than one
inch (1").
APPROVED: Accepted by the department as meeting an applicable specification
stated or cited in this section, and as suitable for the proposed use.
AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY: Any water supply on or available to the premises other
than the public potable water supply, including, but not limited to, water from
another purveyor's public or private potable water supply, treated effluent,
wastewaters, industrial fluids or private wells.
BACK PRESSURE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances under
pressure into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any
source or sources other than the intended source.
BACK SIPHONAGE: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water supply from any source other than its
intended source caused by the reduction of pressure in the potable water supply
system.
BACKFLOW: The reversal of the normal flow of water caused by either back
pressure or back siphonage.
BACKFLOW PREVENTER: An assembly or means designed to prevent the reversal of
the normal flow of water caused by either back pressure or back siphonage.
CONTAMINATION: An impairment of the quality of the potable water by sewage,
industrial fluids or waste liquids, compounds or other materials to a degree
which creates an actual or potential hazard to the public health through
poisoning or through the spread of disease.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement of piping or fixtures
between two (2) otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains
potable water and the other nonpotable water or industrial fluids through
which, or because of which, backflow may occur into the potable water system.
This would include any temporary connections, such as swing connections,
removable sections, four-way plug valves, spools, dummy section of pipe, swivel
or changeover devices or sliding multiport tube.
DOUBLE CHECK BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: An assembly of two (2) independently operating
approved check valves with resilient seated shutoff valves on each end of the
check valves, plus properly located test cocks for the testing of each check
valve. The entire assembly shall meet the design and performance specifications
as determined by a recognized laboratory and approved by the department for
backflow prevention assemblies. To be approved these devices must be readily
accessible for in line testing and maintenance.
POLLUTION: The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic or
biological) in the water which tends to degrade its quality so as to constitute
a hazard or impair the usefulness or quality of the water to a degree which
does not create an actual hazard to the public health but which does adversely
and unreasonably affect the waters for domestic use.
PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER ASSEMBLY: An assembly containing an independently
operating loaded check valve and an independently operating loaded air inlet
valve located on the discharge side of the check valve. The assembly shall be
equipped with properly located test cocks and resilient seated shutoff valves
located at each end of the assembly.
REDUCED PRESSURE BACKFLOW ASSEMBLY: An assembly of two (2) independently acting
approved check valves together with a hydraulically operating, mechanically
independent differential pressure relief valve located between the check valves
and, at the same time, below the first check valve. The unit shall include
properly located test cocks and resilient seated shutoff valves at each end of
the assembly. The entire device shall meet the design and performance
specifications as determined by a recognized laboratory and approved by the
department for backflow prevention assemblies. To be approved, these devices
must be readily accessible for in line testing and maintenance.
TESTER, RECOGNIZED: A person who has proven his/her competency to the
satisfaction of the department. Each person certified to make competent tests
or to repair, overhaul and make reports on backflow prevention assemblies shall
be conversant with the applicable laws, rules and regulations and have had
experience in plumbing or pipefitting or have other qualifications which are
equivalent in the opinion of the department.
WATER, NONPOTABLE: Water which is not safe for human consumption.
WATER, POTABLE: Any water which, according to the town, meets nationally
recognized standards for human consumption.
WATER, SERVICE CONNECTION: The terminal end of the service line from the public
potable water system at its point of delivery to the user's water system. If a
meter is installed at the end of the service connection, then the "service
connection" shall mean the downstream end of the meter. Unprotected takeoffs
from the service line will not be permitted upstream of any meter or any
backflow prevention device located at the point of delivery to the user's water
system. Service connection shall also include water service connection from a
fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency water service connections
from the public potable water system. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-3-3: APPROVAL:
   A.   Each backflow prevention assembly required hereunder shall be approved
by the department prior to installation, and shall be installed by and at the
expense of the user.
   B.   The department may approve backflow assemblies when such devices have
received approval from the Foundation For Cross Connection Control And
Hydraulic Research of the University Of Southern California, American Water
Works Association (AWWA), and the manufacturer has a parts and service center
located within Arizona. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-3-4: INSTALLATION OF DEVICES:
   A.   Assemblies shall be installed at the service connection or near the
property line but in all cases, before the first branch line leading off of the
service line, and in an accessible location approved by the department. All
assemblies shall be shown and specified on all required building and
engineering plans and approval shall be obtained prior to issuance of building
and/or engineering permit. All assemblies shall be installed according to
standard detail.
   B.   Backflow preventive assemblies shall have at least the same cross
sectional area as the water service and/or meter. In those instances where a
continuous water supply is necessary, or if the water supply cannot be
temporarily interrupted for testing of assemblies, then two (2) sets of
backflow preventive assemblies shall be installed in parallel.
   C.   No bypass shall be installed around backflow prevention assemblies.
   D.   Double check valve assemblies may be installed belowground in a vault
if approved, in writing, on a case by case basis, by the department. Double
check valve assemblies installed in vaults shall have sufficient clearance
provided to permit testing in place or removal for maintenance, as prescribed
in the standard details. Copies are available upon request from the department.
   E.   A reduced pressure principle backflow preventive assembly shall be
installed aboveground. Assemblies installed shall be accessible for testing as
not to endanger the tester. Under no conditions except as provided for herein
will backflow prevention assemblies be installed less than twelve inches (12")
or more than twenty four inches (24") above grade level.
   F.   All pressure type backflow prevention assemblies which are designed for
periodic field testing shall be equipped with resilient seated valves on both
the upstream and the downstream side of the assembly. In addition, test cocks
shall be provided and located so that test equipment may be connected to the
assembly at such points that the pressure in each pressure zone may be detected
and, in addition, a test cock shall be located upstream of the upstream shutoff
valve, as close as possible to the upstream shutoff valve.
   G.   Backflow assemblies shall be protected from freezing by a method
acceptable to the department. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-3-5: SCHEDULE OF PREMISES REQUIRING BACKFLOW PREVENTIVE DEVICES:
An approved backflow prevention assembly of the type specified in this section
shall be the minimum installation of each service connection (whether from a
fire hydrant, temporary, regular or other water service connection), to the
following type of premises or systems. Premises or systems not listed herein
shall be subject to review by the department so as to determine the necessity
for the installation of an appropriate backflow prevention device.
Premises Requiring    Type Of Assembly Required (And/Or)
Approved Backflow     Double Check Reduced Pressure Air Gap Pressure Vacuum
Prevention Assemblies                                       Breaker
Premises Requiring     Type Of Assembly Required (And/Or)
Approved Backflow      Double Check Reduced Pressure Air Gap Pressure Vacuum
Prevention Assemblies                                        Breaker
Animal clinics, animal             X                        
grooming shops
Automotive repair with
steam and/or acid                  X                        
cleaning equipment or
solvent facilities
Auxiliary water
systems                            X                        
(interconnected)
Auxiliary water
systems                X                                    
(noninterconnected)
Beverage bottling                  X                        
plants
Breweries              X                                    
Buildings greater than
3 stories or 34 feet   X                                    
in height
Buildings with house
pumps or potable water X                                    
storage
Buildings with sewer               X                        
ejectors
Canneries,
packinghouses, and                 X                        
reduction plants
Car wash facilities                X                        
Centralized heating
and air conditioning               X                        
plants
Chemical plants                    X                        
Chemically treated
potable or nonpotable              X                        
water systems
Civil works
(government owned or
operated facilities                X                        
not open for
inspection by the
department)
Commercial laundries               X                        
Dairies and cold       X                                    
storage
Dye works                          X                        
Film processing labs               X                        
Food processing                    X                        
Grade school, high                 X                        
school and colleges
Holding tank disposal              X                        
stations
Hospitals and                      X                        
mortuaries
Medical and dental                 X                        
buildings
Sanatoriums, rest and  X                                    
convalescent homes
Irrigation systems
(premises having                   X                       X
nonpotable piping 1
inch and larger)
Irrigation systems
(premises having                   X                        
separate systems)
Labs using
contaminating                      X                        
materials
Manufacturing,
processing and
fabricating plants                 X                        
using contaminating
materials
Mobile home parks                  X                        
Motion picture studios             X                        
Oil and gas production             X                        
facilities
Plating plants                     X                        
Radioactive materials              X                        
processing
Restricted, classified
or other closed                    X                        
facilities
Sand and gravel plants             X                        
Sewage and storm                   X                        
drainage facilities
Shopping centers                   X                        
Any premises where a
cross connection is                X                        
maintained
Water trucks,
hydraulic sewer                    X                X        
cleaning equipment
Any premises where
water supplied by the
town is subject to
deterioration in                   X                        
sanitary quality and
its entry into the
public water system
Direct connection from
public water system    X                                    
(noncontaminating)
Direct connection from
public water system                X                        
(contaminating)
With pump and/or                   X                        
storage tank
With auxiliary supply              X                        
 
(Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-3-6: APPROVED BACKFLOW PREVENTIVE ASSEMBLIES:
   A.   As designated in section
8-3-3 of this chapter, the standard installation at each service connection to
premises or each system requiring an approved backflow prevention assembly
shall be a model and size approved by the department.
   B.   The term "approved backflow prevention assembly" means an assembly
approved by the department, and may mean an assembly that has been manufactured
in full conformance with the standards established by the American Water Works
Association - AWWA C506-78 most recent revised publication "Standards For
Reduced Pressure Principle And Double Check Valve Backflow Prevention
Assemblies", and have met completely the laboratory and field performance
specifications of the Foundation For Cross-Connection Control And Hydraulic
Research (FCCCHR) of the University Of Southern California, established by
specifications of backflow prevention assemblies 10th edition of the most
current issue of the "Manual Of Cross-Connection Control", which will be
available for inspection.
   C.   Backflow prevention assemblies which may be subject to back pressure or
back siphonage that have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate
of approval by FCCCHR may be listed on the current list of "approved backflow
prevention assemblies", which will be made available upon written request to
the department. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-3-7: MAINTENANCE, TESTING AND RECORDS:
   A.   The user shall maintain accurate records of tests and repairs made to
backflow prevention assemblies and provide the department with copies of the
records. The records shall be on forms approved by the department and shall
include the list of materials or replacement parts used.
   B.   The user shall notify the department fifteen (15) days in advance when
the annual tests are to be done, so that an official representative may witness
the tests if so desired by the department.
   C.   Following the installation or any repair, repiping, overhaul or
relocation of an assembly, the user shall have it inspected by the department,
tested, and provide the department with results of the test, before the
certificate of occupancy is issued.
   D.   Testing, maintenance and repairs to assemblies shall be made at the
customer's expense by a certified backflow prevention assembly tester who is
approved by the department or any other agency designated by the department to
prescribe test methods or to certify or approve persons to conduct such tests.
It shall be the duty of the user to see that these tests are made at least once
a year, on the anniversary date of the initial inspection. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-
2012)
8-3-8: INSPECTIONS:
The user's system must be open for inspection at all reasonable times, and in
all emergencies to authorized representatives of the department to determine
whether cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including
violations of these regulations, exist. When such a condition becomes known,
the department may deny or immediately discontinue service to the premises by
providing a physical break in the service line until the user has corrected the
condition in conformance with this chapter. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-3-9: DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE:
Service of water to any premises may be discontinued by the department if a
backflow prevention assembly required by this section is not installed, tested
and maintained; if it has been found that a backflow prevention assembly has
been removed or bypassed; or if a cross connection exists on the premises.
Service will not be restored until the conditions or defects are corrected. The
town may also terminate a user's service upon twenty (20) days' notice in
writing in nonemergency cases. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-3-10: EXISTING DEVICES AND USERS:
   A.   If the department determines that a user's backflow prevention assembly
does not meet current standards, the user shall retrofit his assembly so that
it will meet current standards.
   B.   Users that have water service prior to the effective date of this
chapter are subject to all requirements imposed by this chapter. (Ord. O 12-01,
2-7-2012)
8-3-11: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
This chapter shall not create any liability or duty on the part of the town,
any officer or employee. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 4
RATES, CHARGES AND BILLING
SECTION:
8-4-1: Minimum Charge
8-4-2: Installation; Meter Advances
8-4-3: Rate Schedule And Deposits
8-4-4: Meter Reading, Billing And Collecting
8-4-1: MINIMUM CHARGE:
   A.   The town shall require the payment of the initial or minimum charge, as
provided in the rate schedule, for each meter installed, regardless of
location. The town shall require a separate meter reading sheet for each meter
installed, each meter reading sheet covering a separate and individual account.
   B.   The town shall require the payment of the minimum monthly charge which
shall be the regular monthly charge for the meter size used, for service to
mobile home parks, campgrounds or multiple unit dwellings. The town shall bill
for excess water at the authorized rates.
   C.   If a consumer takes exception to this method of an established minimum
charge, the consumer may, upon paying to the town the regular connection charge
and deposit for each meter requested, request that a meter be installed for
each residential unit. The town may, in its discretion, require installation of
a meter for each residential unit.
   D.   If service is requested for a location for a consumer, or for any
member of the consumer's household, who has ordered a service disconnection at
that same location within the preceding twelve (12) month period, a
nonrefundable charge as provided in the rate schedule, shall be required as a
precondition to the service. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-4-2: INSTALLATION; METER ADVANCES:
   A.   The town shall run a service line from the town's distribution line to
the property line if its distribution line exists and runs adjacent and
parallel to the property to be served. Each consumer shall pay to the town the
sum set forth in the rate schedule for service.
   B.   The town shall install the meter at the property line or, at the town's
option, on the consumer's property, or in a mutually agreed upon location.
(Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-4-3: RATE SCHEDULE AND DEPOSITS:
The town shall require various payments for connection fees, deposits and usage
rates, according to a schedule as determined by resolution of the council. The
connection fees, deposits and usage rates shall be changed periodically by the
council through resolution, according to the changing costs to the town in
supplying the service, and to afford protection to the town for nonpayment of
bills. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-4-4: METER READING, BILLING AND COLLECTING:
   A.   Meters shall be read and bills shall be rendered monthly.
   B.   Bills for water shall be computed in accordance with the town's
authorized rate schedule and shall be based on the amount of water consumed for
the period covered by the meter readings, except that, where consumer requests
a turn on or a turnoff resulting in a period of availability of service of less
than one month, the town may bill the consumer the minimum charge for one
month's full service.
   C.   Charge for service shall commence when the meter is installed and
connection made, whether used or not.
   D.   Readings from different meters shall not be combined for billings,
irrespective of the fact that the meters may be for the same premises, for the
same or different consumers or for the same or different services.
   E.   Bills shall be due when rendered and shall be delinquent fifteen (15)
days thereafter. It is the policy of the town to discontinue utility service to
consumers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.
      1.   If any bill becomes delinquent, a second bill will be mailed
containing a cutoff notice, stating that if the bill is not paid within ten
(10) days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment.
      2.   Any consumer disputing the correctness of a bill shall have a right
to a hearing at which time the consumer may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or in
writing his or her complaint and contentions to the town official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the consumer's
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the consumer's complaint.
      3.   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained at
this hearing; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing
procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified,
but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least thirty
(30) days.
      4.   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a consumer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn on
charge in the sum of twenty dollars ($20.00).
   F.   Consumer's bills shall become delinquent despite consumer's failure to
receive bills or notices, and consumer shall not be relieved of his or her
obligation therein due to his or her failure to receive bills or notices.
   G.   If consumer believes the bill is in error, he or she shall present a
claim to the town before the bill becomes delinquent.
   H.   The town shall make special meter readings at the request of a consumer
for a fee of five dollars ($5.00), provided that, if the special reading
discloses that the meter was overread, no charge shall be made.
   I.   Meters shall be tested at a consumer's request. Consumer shall pay to
the town the actual cost of the test, provided that, if the test discloses that
the meter overregistered beyond three percent (3%) of the correct volume, no
charge shall be made. The town shall add the amount of the cost to consumer's
bill and, if the amount is not paid, the town shall discontinue service to
consumer.
   J.   If the seal of a meter is broken by anyone other than the town's
representative, consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of
consumer's previous bills or from other proper data.
   K.   If a meter fails to register or stops for any cause for which consumer
is not responsible, consumer shall pay an amount estimated from the record of
consumer's previous bills or from other proper data until the meter is repaired
or replaced.
   L.   Service discontinued for delinquency of bills shall be restored after
all due bills are paid in full, redeposit made, if required, and a service
charge of ten dollars ($10.00) for each service reestablished. (Ord. O 12-01,
2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 5
WATER DEVELOPMENT FEES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Purpose
8-5-2: Equivalent Residential Unit
8-5-3: Credits Against Fees
8-5-4: Time For Payment
8-5-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority of Arizona Revised Statutes
9-463.05 for the purpose of assessing water development fees to offset costs to
the town of Star Valley associated with providing necessary public water
services to development so that new development pays for its fair share of
public water facilities through the imposition of development fees that will be
used to finance, defray or reimburse all or a portion of the costs incurred by
the town of Star Valley for public water facilities that serve such
development. The water development fees shall be determined by resolution of
the council. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-5-2: EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT:
   A.   An equivalent peak residential unit shall be the amount of water
necessary to serve a residential unit in any peak month with seven thousand
five hundred (7,500) gallons of potable water.
   B.   Each of the following shall be deemed to use one equivalent peak
residential unit, excluding swimming pool and spa installations, and subject to
the actual proposed use and landscaping employed:
      1.   1.5 apartment, townhouse or condominium units;
      2.   2.2 motel rooms (without spas);
      3.   Three (3) nursing home beds;
      4.   Five thousand (5,000) square feet of professional office space; or
      5.   Seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet of retail
merchandising space.
   C.   1. The number of equivalent peak residential units projected to be
required by any project for which no specific provision is made in this section
shall be subject to review and determination by the water superintendent at the
time of plan submittal.
      2.   Such projected peak monthly water use shall be reviewed by the water
superintendent at the conclusion of two (2) years from the date of issuance of
a certificate of occupancy. After review, the water superintendent shall
determine whether the project requires or has utilized a greater number of
equivalent peak residential units than first projected or the same or a lesser
number.
         a.   In making such determination, the water superintendent shall
consider:
            (1)   The actual water use of the project for the two (2) year
historic period;
            (2)   Any changes made in the use over such two (2) year period;
and
            (3)   Any proposed future changes to be made in the use.
         b.   In addition, the water superintendent may consider such other
matters as he/she deems relevant and material.
      3.   After such review, the water superintendent shall adjust the
initially projected number of equivalent peak residential units. If such
adjustment results in a change in the amount of water development fee to be
paid relative to such project, then the water superintendent shall:
         a.   Require the then current user to pay an additional water
development fee or portion thereof;
         b.   Make a refund of the water development fee or portion thereof to
the party who originally paid the projected water development fee; or
         c.   Permit the original number of equivalent peak residential units
projected and water development fees paid to remain unchanged.
      4.   This provision shall be applicable to any multi-family project
developed under a federal low income housing tax credit program.
      5.   If the water superintendent determines that additional water
development fees are owed as a result of the review and determination provided
for herein, the party owing such additional water development fee shall make
payment of the same together with an additional twenty percent (20%) thereof to
the town within thirty (30) days of request therefor by the water
superintendent, or water service to such party shall be terminated. (Ord. O 12-
01, 2-7-2012)
8-5-3: CREDITS AGAINST FEES:
The person or entity paying a water development fee shall be entitled to
receive one or more of the following credits against such fee:
   A.   For areas for which a developer has provided a viable water supply
technical study, a credit of up to one hundred sixty three dollars ($163.00)
for each equivalent peak residential unit shall be permitted against the
technical studies recapture fee.
   B.   For areas for which a developer has provided a viable water storage
tank, a credit of up to two hundred twenty five dollars ($225.00) for each
equivalent peak residential unit shall be permitted against the storage tank
recapture fee.
   C.   For areas for which a developer has provided a viable water supply, a
credit of up to seven thousand one hundred eighty two dollars ($7,182.00) for
each equivalent peak residential unit shall be permitted against the water
supply recapture fee.
   D.   For areas for which a developer has prepaid water development fees, a
credit of up to the amount per equivalent peak residential unit up to a maximum
of the original platted density units allowed shall be permitted. (Ord. O 12-
01, 2-7-2012)
8-5-4: TIME FOR PAYMENT:
   A.   Except as set forth in subsections B, C, D, and E of this section, the
water development fee required under this section shall be paid no later than
the issuance of construction permits.
   B.   For commercial and multi-family projects, the town may enter into an
agreement for the deferred collection of the water development fee subject to
the following:
      1.   Such agreements shall not exceed sixty (60) months;
      2.   Such agreements shall be approved by the public works director;
      3.   Payments on the outstanding water development fee shall be made
monthly or annually; and
      4.   No interest shall accrue or be payable if the water development fee
is paid in full within sixty (60) months and in accordance with the terms of
the agreement.
   C.   For commercial and multi-family projects requiring five (5) or more
equivalent peak residential units, the town may enter into an agreement for the
deferred collection of the water development fee subject to the following:
      1.   Such agreements shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) months;
      2.   Such agreements shall be approved by the town council;
      3.   Payments on the outstanding water development fee shall be made
monthly or annually; and
      4.   The interest rate, if any, that shall be charged on the outstanding
water development fee shall be determined by the town council.
   D.   For commercial and multi-family projects requiring more than ten (10)
equivalent peak residential units, the town may enter into an agreement for the
deferred collection of the water development fee subject to the following:
      1.   Such agreements shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) months;
      2.   Such agreements shall be approved by the town council;
      3.   Payments on the outstanding water development fee shall be made
monthly or annually. The agreement may allow for the deferral of the first
payment for up to thirty six (36) months; and
      4.   The interest rate, if any, that shall be charged on the outstanding
water development fee shall be determined by the town council.
   E.   For residential projects, the town may enter into a development
agreement for the deferred collection of the water development fee if such
deferral is permissible under state law and the terms of the development
agreement conform with state law.
   F.   Any agreement for the deferral of water development fees pursuant to
this section shall be in a form approved by the town attorney, and shall be
secured by any assurances deemed necessary by the town. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-
2012)
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-6-1: Access To Premises
8-6-2: Variance
8-6-3: Water Waste
8-6-1: ACCESS TO PREMISES:
   A.   Duly authorized agents of the town shall have access, at all reasonable
hours, to the premises of consumer for the purposes of installing or removing
town property, inspecting piping, reading or testing meters, or for any other
purpose in connection with the town's service or facilities.
   B.   Each consumer shall grant or convey or shall cause to be granted or
conveyed to the town a permanent easement across any property owned or
controlled by the consumer wherever the easement is necessary to enable the
town to furnish water. Consumer shall not erect a fence around, across or on
the easement or any other water system facility without the approval of the
town. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-6-2: VARIANCE:
The council shall permit a variation from the terms and conditions of this
chapter only upon the verified application of an affected party to the council,
setting forth the circumstances whereby the public interest requires variation
and upon the issuance of a special resolution of the council. The council may
require an application for variation to be presented in a public hearing. (Ord.
O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
8-6-3: WATER WASTE:
   A.   Water Waste Prohibited: No person, firm, corporation, county, state,
federal, or municipal facility or operation which is served by the water
department shall cause or permit to occur any water waste.
   B.   Unforeseeable Events: For unforeseeable or unpreventable failure or
malfunction of plumbing or irrigation hardware, the town shall generally issue
a formal warning notice prior to taking enforcement action. Prior to taking
formal enforcement action, the town may instruct the water user to not operate
the faulty system until it is appropriately repaired. If operating the system
is integral to the operation of the facility, the town may, in its discretion,
provide a period of time in which to remedy the violation prior to commencing
formal enforcement action. Once a warning notice or an initial citation has
been issued for an outdoor occurrence, subsequent water waste events shall be
subject to strict enforcement. Strict enforcement may include the issuance of
citations and such other actions as the town deems necessary to bring the user
into compliance. For indoor water waste events and for those water waste events
outdoors caused by a faulty system which is integral to the operation of the
facility, the waste must be abated within seven (7) calendar days of the
issuance of a warning notice. Enforcement action shall be commenced if the
water waste continues to occur beyond the seven (7) day period.
   C.   Fugitive Water Flow Prohibited: No person, firm, corporation, county,
state, federal, or municipal or other government facility or operation shall
cause or permit the occurrence of fugitive water.
   D.   Exemptions:
      1.   "Water waste" shall not include:
         a.   Flow resulting from firefighting or routine inspection of fire
hydrants or from fire training activities.
         b.   Water applied to abate spills of flammable or otherwise hazardous
materials.
         c.   Water applied to prevent or abate health, safety, or accident
hazards when alternate methods are not available.
         d.   Water which reaches or flows onto adjacent property or public or
private right of way when caused by vandalism, wind, emergencies, or acts of
God.
         e.   Flow resulting from a routine inspection or maintenance of the
town water utility system.
         f.   Water used by the town in the installation, maintenance, repair,
or replacement of public facilities and structures including, but not limited
to, traffic control devices, storm and sanitary sewer structures, and road or
street improvements.
         g.   Water used by contractors or utilities including, but not limited
to, saw cutting of pavement, compaction, or other use required under terms of
their contract.
         h.   Firefighter training activities for which written approval has
been granted by the water department.
      2.   "Fugitive water" shall not include:
         a.   Storm runoff, including snowmelt runoff, allowed under provisions
of article VIII SFCC 1987 14-90.4.
         b.   Flow resulting from temporary town water utility system failures
or malfunctions.
         c.   Water applied, such as in the cleaning of hard surfaces, to
prevent or abate public health, safety, or accident hazards when alternate
methods are not available. The washing of outdoor eating areas and sidewalks is
not included in this exemption.
         d.   Flow resulting from vandalism, high winds, emergencies, and acts
of God.
         e.   The occurrence of an unforeseeable or unpreventable failure or
malfunction of plumbing or irrigation system hardware prior to the issuance of
a formal warning notice issued to the water user. Once a formal warning notice
has been issued, the water user is instructed not to operate the faulty system
until it is appropriately repaired, unless operating the system is integral to
the operation of the facility. Once a warning notice has been issued,
subsequent fugitive water events at the same location will be subject to
issuance of citations. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 7
WATER EMERGENCY OPERATION PLAN
SECTION:
8-7-1: Adopted
8-7-1: ADOPTED:
The Arizona department of environmental quality and the USA patriot act require
that the town have a water emergency operation plan in place at all times. The
town council by resolution shall adopt a water emergency operation plan which
fully complies with the regulations of the Arizona department of environmental
quality and the USA patriot act. (Ord. O 12-01, 2-7-2012)
CHAPTER 8
PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-8-1: Violations; Penalty
8-8-1: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this title, as
amended, shall be guilty of a civil offense or a class one misdemeanor. Each
day that a violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as
hereinabove described. A class one misdemeanor shall be punishable by up to six
(6) months in jail and a fine of up to two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00). Each day a violation continues after a citation for the violation
has been issued constitutes a separate violation.
   B.   By enforcing this title, the town undertakes only to promote the
general welfare and health of the community. It does not assume, nor does it
impose on its officers and employees, an obligation for breach of which it is
liable in money damages to any person claiming injury from such breach. (Ord. O
12-01, 2-7-2012)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE; PERMITS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code
9-1-2: Building Permit
9-1-3: Manufactured Home Permit
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the building requirements set forth in this
chapter is to provide minimum standards safeguarding life or limb, health,
safety, property and public welfare by regulating and controlling the design,
construction and quality of materials of all buildings and structures within
the town limits.
   B.   Building Official: The building official, inspector, or other
administrative authority referenced in this chapter shall be vested in the
office of the town manager, or such other person the town manager may appoint,
subject to town council approval. It shall be the duty of the building official
to administer this chapter. All town law enforcement officials and agencies
shall, whenever requested by the building official, enforce this chapter to the
extent they are lawfully authorized to do so.
   C.   Rules And Regulations: The building official may adopt rules and
regulations, subject to the approval of the town council, in the interest of
public safety, health, and general welfare, to implement the provisions of this
chapter and to secure the intent thereof. But no such rule shall have the
effect of waiving technical provisions specifically provided in the adopted
building code or of violating accepted engineering practices involved in public
safety. (2006 Code)
   D.   Standards: No person shall construct or cause to be constructed any
building or addition to any building within the corporate limits of the town
that does not meet or exceed the standards as set forth in the town’s adopted
building codes, which are the:
      1.   INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE
         (A)   The International Residential Code, 2018 Edition, published on
or after August 31, 2017 by the International Code Council (ICC), is proposed
to be adopted.
         (B)   The following local amendments to the International Residential
Code are proposed to be adopted:
         1.   Section 101.2 Scope. Exception: Remove last sentence of first
paragraph and change the number of occupants from five to six in number 2.
Also, add the words “provided all are capable of self-preservation,” to the end
of number 4. and number 5.
         2.   Section 105.1 Required. The following language is added to the
end of this section “In addition, Park Models require a building permit for
placement. At minimum, approved hold down anchors must be installed at building
corners and electrical and mechanical equipment that are hard-wired and/or
exterior to the unit require a separate permit.
         3.   Section 105.2 (3) The section is revised so that height is
measured from the top of the footing or retaining walls instead of the bottom.
         4.   Section 108.6 Work commencing before permit issuance. The
following language is added to the end of section “An investigation fee, in
addition to the permit fee, shall be collected whether or not a permit is then
or subsequently issued. The investigation fee shall be equal in amount to the
permit that would have been required to authorize such work to be done, except
that the minimum amount to be collected may be not less than $70.”
         5.   Section 112.2.1 Determination of substantial improvement in flood
hazard area. This subsection is not adopted.
         6.   Section 112.2.2 Criteria for issuance of a variance flood hazard
areas. This subsection is not adopted.
         7.   Section 113.2.2 Construction Debris. “Construction sites shall be
kept reasonably clear of construction debris during the course of construction.
Construction debris shall be removed or stored on the site and not be at risk
of being displaced due to weather conditions”.
         8.   Section 202 Definitions. The following definition is added “Park
Model Living Unit. Any factory assembled portable unit to which is affixed an
Arizona recreational vehicle seal, mounted on a chassis and wheels not more
than 12 feet in width and no greater than 400 square feet in area. In addition,
not less than 320 square feet in total area and permanently connected to
utilities that are necessary for the operation of the installed park model
living unit with no holding tank, other than an approved water heater.”
         9.   Table R301.2 (1) Climatic and Geographical Design Criteria. Shall
be amended as follows:
            Ground Snow Load - 48lbs/sq. ft.
            Wind Design - 115/vult 89/asd Exposure B
            Seismic Design Category - B
            Weathering - Negligible
            Frost Depth - 18"
            No Ice Barrier Required
            Engineering Department Deals with Flood Hazard Determination
            Air Freezing Index - 1000
            Mean Annual Temperature - 65/F
         10.   Modify Habitable Attics and Bedrooms to reflect a live load of
40. Footnote (i) is added to Table 301.5 and shall read as follows: “When attic
storage trusses exceed (4) four trusses for HVAC units and exceed the limits
listed elsewhere in this table, or in the footnotes, a 40 pound live load
design shall be used.”
         11.   Section 302.6 Change the type of drywall listed from ½” to 5/8"
type X.
         12.   Table 302.6 printed dimension of ½” is replaced with 5/8" type
X.
         13.   309.5 Fire sprinklers. The following language is added at the
beginning of the section: “When required by Town of Star Valley Ordinances”.
         14.   Section 310.2.1 - Delete the Exception.
         15.   Section 311.3.1 Exception & 311.3.2 Max height increased to 8"
from 7-3/4".
         16.   R302.7 Modify ½” drywall to 5/8" type X.
         17.   Section 313.2 One and two-family dwellings automatic fire
systems. The following language is added to the end of the paragraph: “When
either of the two conditions listed below exist:
            1.   When such buildings have more than 4800 sq. ft. of livable
area.
            2.   When operational procedures include provisions that more than
one person not capable of self-preservation in a group home, that is unrelated
to the person in control of the property occupies a residential unit for more
than 30 consecutive days.”
         18.   Section 313.2.1 Design and Installation. Strike reference to
require fire sprinklers in all single-family homes, by striking the words, “and
installed” from this section.
         19.   Section 320.1 Scope. The following language is added before the
existing paragraph: “Where disabled, unrelated persons occupy a residential
unit, the building and bedroom entry, main level living area and at least one
bathroom to be used by such persons shall comply with the provisions of Chapter
11 of the International Building Code, additionally.”
         20.   Section 322 Flood-Resistant Construction. The Building Official
may use flood resistant construction requirements in this section under his
authority to determine structure construction requirements, however the Town
Engineer shall use local ordinances to mandate when a flood potential exists
and all benchmarks and grading must be completed in compliance with Engineering
Department adopted standards.
         21.   Section 506.1 General. The following sentence is added to the
section “Control Joints in unreinforced concrete slab floors on grade shall be
provided at a maximum of 12 feet on center, in both directions.”
         22.   Stud size, height and spacing 602.3.1 Exception 3. Modify the
roof live load to “not to exceed 40" and the ground snow load to “not to exceed
48.”
         23.   Section 606.6.4.1 Horizontal lateral support. Revise the section
to read as follows “Minimum reinforcement requirements for masonry elements.
Masonry elements shall be reinforced by at least one #4 rebar, in both the
horizontal and vertical directions at no further than 4' on center.
Additionally, a single #4 rebar is required within 6 inches of the top of
masonry walls, placed horizontally and within 18" vertically placed, of the end
of the wall and at openings.”
         24.   The energy conservation provisions of Chapter 11 are recognized
but not adopted as being required with the exception of the following:
INSULATION AND FENESTRATION REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENTS (a)
Excerpts from Table 1102.1.2
 
                                                   WOOD  MASS                 SLAB  CRAWL
        FENESTRATION SKYLIGHT GLAZED               FRAME WALL  FLOOR BASEMENT R-    SPACE
CLIMATE U-FACTORS    (b) U-   FENESTRATION CEILING WALL  R-    R-    WALL R-  VALUE WALL
ZONE    (b)          FACTOR   SHGC (b)     R-VALUE R.    VALUE VALUE VALUE    &     VALUE
                                                   VALUE (b)         (c)      DEPTH (c)
                                                                              (d)
                                                   20 or                      10,
4       0.35         0.55     0.40         38      13+5  8/13  19    10/13    18"   10/13
                                                   (h)
 
a.   R-VALUES ARE MINIMUMS. C-FACTORS ARE MAXIMUMS. WHEN INSULATION IS
INSTALLED IN A CAVITY WHICH IS LESS THAN LABEL OR DESIGN THICKNESS OF THE
INSULATION, THE INSTALLED R-VALUE OF THE INSULATION SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN THE
VALUE SPECIFIED IN THE TABLE.
b.   THE FENESTRATION U-FACTOR COLUMN EXCLUDES SKYLIGHTS. THE SHGC COLUMN
APPLIES TO ALL GLAZED FENESTRATION.
c.   “10/13" MEANS R.IO CONTINUOUS INSULATION ON THE INTERIOR OR EXTERIOR OF
THE HOME OR R-13 CAVITY INSULATION AT THE INTERIOR OF THE BASEMENT WALL.
d.   R-5 SHALL BE ADDED TO THE REQUIRED SLAB EDGE R.VALUES FOR HEATED SLABS.
INSULATION DEMI-I SHALL BE 18' BELOW GRADE.
e.   DELETED
f.   DELETED
g.   DELETED
   THE FIRST VALUE IS CAVITY INSULATION. THE SECOND VALUE IS CONTINUOUS
INSULATION. THEREFORE, AS AN EXAMPLE, “13+5" MEANS R-13 CAVITY INSULATION PLUS
R-5 CONTINUOUS INSULATION.
   IECC Table R402.1.3 and IRC Section N1102.1.3 - Tables are amended as
follows:
TABLE N1102.1.3
EQUIVALENT U-FACTORS (a)
 
                              CEILING FRAME   MASS             BASEMENT CRAWL
CLIMATE FENESTRATION SKYLIGHT U-      WALL U- WALL U- FLOOR U- WALL U-  SPACE
ZONE    U-FACTOR     U-FACTOR FACTOR  FACTOR  FACTOR  FACTOR   FACTOR   WALL U-
                                              (b)                       FACTOR
4       0.35         0.55     0.03    0.057   0.098            0.059    1/0
 
a.   NON-FENESTRATION U-FACTORS SHALL BE OBTAINED FROM MEASUREMENT, CALCULATION
OR AN APPROVED SOURCE.
b.   WHEN MORE THAN HALF THE INSULATION IS ON THE INTERIOR, THE MASS WALL U-
FACTOR SHALL BE A MAXIMUM OF 0.087
         25.   N1103.3.1 (R403.3.1) Insulation (Prescriptive). Inclusive of
Exception. Adopt Section as printed.
         26.   N1103.3.2 (R403.3.2) Sealing (Mandatory). Adopt section as
printed.
         27.   Section M 1305.1 Appliance access for inspection service, repair
and replacement. Only the first sentence of this subsection is adopted. Add the
following at the end of the paragraph: “This section does not apply to
appliances located on roofs.”
         28.   P 2904.1.1 The words “as specified in amended section 313.2 and
in Townhouses” are inserted after the words dwelling unit.
         29.   Appendix Chapters to be adopted specifically:
            (a)   Appendix M - Home Day Care-R3 Occupancy
            (b)   Appendix Q - Tiny Houses
            (c)   Appendix R - Light Straw Clay Construction
            (d)   Appendix S - Straw Bale Construction
      2.   INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE
         (A)   The International Building Code, 2018 Edition, published on or
after August 31, 2017 by the International Code Council (ICC), is proposed to
be adopted.
         (B)   The following local amendments to the International Building
Code are proposed to be adopted:
         1.   Section 101.4 Referenced codes. The last line after the words
‘code to’ is revised to read: “such codes that have been specifically adopted
by the Town of Star Valley.”
         2.   Section 104.10.1 Flood hazard areas. This subsection is not
adopted.
         3.   Insert new section 105.8 Construction debris. “Construction sites
shall be kept reasonably clear of construction debris during the course of
construction. Construction debris shall be removed or stored on the site and
not be at risk of being displaced due to weather conditions”.
         4.   Section 107.2.6.1 Design flood elevations: This subsection is not
adopted.
         5.   Section 109.4 Work commencing before permit issuance. Add the
following language to the end of this section, “An investigation fee, in
addition to the permit fee, shall be collected whether or not a permit is then,
or subsequently issued. The investigation fee shall be equal in amount to the
permit that would have initially been required to authorize such work to be
done, except that the minimum amount to be collected may be not less than $70.”
         6.   Section 110.3.11.1 Flood hazard documentation. Subsection is
amended to read “If located in a flood hazard area, documentation of the
elevation of the lowest floor as required by adopted town floodplain ordinances
shall be submitted to the town engineering department for review and approval,
prior to the issuance of a Certificate of Occupancy.”
         7.   412.4.5 Height and area limits. (Residential aircraft hangars)
This subsection is not adopted.
         8.   903.2.8 The following language is added to the end of the
subsection “Except for single family detached and duplex structures with less
than 4800 sq. ft. of livable area.”
         9.   Table 2902.1 add footnote (g) Drinking fountains are required for
occupant loads exceeding 99 occupants.
         10.   Appendix Chapters are not specifically adopted.
      3.   NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
         (A)   The National Electrical Code, 2017 Edition, effective on or
after August 24, 2016, published by the National Fire Protection Association
(NFPA), is adopted.
         (B)    No local amendments to the National Electrical Code are
adopted.
      4.   INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
         (A)   The International Mechanical Code, 2018 Edition, published by
the International Code Council (ICC), is adopted.
         (B)   The following local amendments to the International Mechanical
Code are adopted:
         1.   401.2 Ventilation required. This section is amended to read:
“Every occupied space shall be ventilated by natural means in accordance with
Section 402 or by mechanical means in accordance with Section 403. Where the
air filtration rate in a dwelling unit is less than 5 air changes per hour when
tested with a blower door at a pressure of 0.2 inch water column (50 Pa) in
accordance with Section 402.4.1.2, Building Thermal Envelope Testing Option, of
the International Energy Conservation Code, the dwelling unit shall be
ventilated by mechanical means in accordance with Section 403".
      5.   INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE
         (A)   The International Fuel Gas Code, 2018 Edition, published on or
after August 31, 2017 by the International Code Council (ICC), is adopted.
         (B)   The following local amendments to the International Fuel Gas
Code are adopted:
         1.   306.3 Appliances in attics. The first sentence is amended to read
as follows: “Attics containing appliances shall be provided with an opening and
unobstructed passageway large enough to allow removal of the largest component
of the appliance.” The words ‘component of’ are added to the end of the
paragraph after the word largest and before the word appliance.
         2.   306.4 Appliances under floor. Same modification as 306.3.
      6.   INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE
         (A)    The International Plumbing Code 2018 Edition, published on or
after August 31, 2017 by the International Code Council (ICC), is adopted.
         (B)   The following local amendments to the International Plumbing
Code are adopted.
         1.   312.3 The first sentence (“plastic pipe shall not be tested using
air”) is not adopted.
      7.   INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE
         (A)   The International Existing Building Code, 2018 Edition,
published on or after August 31, 2017 by the International Code Council (ICC),
is adopted.
         (B)   No local amendments to the International Existing Building Code
are adopted.
      8.   INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE
         (A)   The International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, 2018 Edition,
published on or after August 31, 2017 by the International Code Council (ICC),
is adopted.
         (B)   No local amendments to the International Swimming Pool and Spa
Code are adopted.
      9.   INSTALLATION OF SOLID FUEL BURNING STOVES
         (A)   No person shall install or operate any woodstove unless such
woodstove is:
         (1)   Safety listed by a recognized safety testing laboratory; and
         (2)   Certified when new, to be at least as clean as the EPA Phase II
Standards for wood heaters as prescribed by the U.S.E.P.A. (MSP, 40 C.F.R. Part
60, Subpart AAA), or is a fireplace, pellet stove or masonry heater; and
         (3)   Is an EPA Phase II woodstove or pellet stove installation; and a
permit and final inspection for such installation have been obtained from the
Building Department of the town for such installation in accordance with the
applicable provisions of the International Mechanical Code or the International
Residential Code adopted pursuant to this chapter.
         (B)   Definitions
         (1)   Fireplace means a chimney connected, solid fuel or gas burning
appliance, that is intended primarily for occasional recreational and aesthetic
use and only secondarily for incidental heating and that ordinarily is
permanently installed into the structure of a building.
         (2)   Masonry heater means a vented, wood burning radiant heating
system constructed primarily of masonry materials weighing at least 1,754
pounds, either site built or assembled from factory made components, that is
designed to burn rapidly, capturing and storing the resultant heat energy in
the mass of the appliance through internal heat exchange flue channels.
         (3)   Pellet stove means a safety listed appliance designed to burn
only wood pellets or any naturally pelleted fuel that is incapable of burning
cord wood and may or may not be certified 40 C.F.R., Section 60.
         (4)   Woodstove means an airtight wood-heater, either freestanding or
inserted into a fireplace.
      10.   ENERGY STANDARDS
         (A)   The following minimum energy values shall apply for all
residential and commercial buildings:
         Roof R-38
         Wall R-20
         Basement Walls 13
         Floor R-19
         Window U-Factor .35
         Skylight U-factor .55
      (B)   The International Energy Code, 2018 Edition, published by the
International Code Council (ICC), is adopted as an optional/non-required
standard with the amendments set forth in subsection (C) below. If an applicant
requests to follow the code at the time of plan submission and the construction
complies with the code, the town shall note such compliance on the Certificate
of Occupancy.
      (C)   The following local amendments to the International Energy Code are
adopted:
      1.   IECC Table R402.1.1 and IRC Section NI 102.1.1 - Tables are amended
as follows:
TABLE N1102.1.1
INSULATION AND FENESTRATION REQUIREMENTS BY COMPONENTS (a)
 
                                               WOOD  MASS                 SLAB  CRAWL
CLIMA FENESTRATION SKYLIGHT GLAZED       CEILI FRAME WALL  FLOOR BASEMENT (d)   (c)
ZONE  U-FACTORS    FACTOR   FENESTRATION VALUE WALL  R-    VALUE WALL R-  VALUE SPACE
      (b)                   SHGC (b) (e)       R.    VALUE       VALUE    DEPTH WALL
                                               VALUE (i)                        VALUE
                                               20 or                      10,
4     0.35         0.55     0.4          38    13+5  8/13  19    10/13    18t   10/13
                                               (h)
 
h.   R-VALUES ARE MINIMUMS. C-FACTORS ARE MAXIMUMS. WHEN INSULATION IS
INSTALLED IN A CAVITY WHICH IS LESS THAN LABEL OR DESIGN THICKNESS OF THE
INSULATION, THE INSTALLED R-VALUE OF THE INSULATION SHALL NOT BE LESS THAN THE
R-VALUE SPECIFIED IN THE TABLE.
i.   THE FENESTRATION U-FACTOR COLUMN EXCLUDES SKYLIGHTS. THE SHGC COLUMN
APPLIES TO ALL GLAZED FENESTRATION.
j.   “10/13" MEANS R.10 CONTINUOUS INSULATION ON THE INTERIOR OR EXTERIOR OF
THE HOME OR R-13 CAVITY INSULATION AT THE INTERIOR OF THE BASEMENT WALL.
k.   R-5 SHALL BE ADDED TO THE REQUIRED SLAB EDGE R. VALUES FOR HEATED SLABS.
INSULATION DEMI-I SHALL BE 18' BELOW GRADE.
l.   FIRST VALUE IS CAVITY INSULATION, SECOND IS CONTINUOUS INSULATION OR
INSULATED SIDING, SO + s MEANS R-13 CAVITY INSULATION PLUS CONTINUOUS
INSULATION OR INSULATED SIDING. IF STRUCTURAL SHEATHING COVERS 40 PERCENT OR
LESS OF THE EXTERIOR, CONTINUOUS INSULATION R-VALUE SHALL BE PERMITTED TO BE
REDUCED BY NO MORE THAN R.3 IN LOCATIONS WHERE STRUCTURAL SHEATHING IS USED TO
MAINTAIN A CONSISTENT TOTAL SHEATHING THICKNESS.
      2.   IECC Table R402.1.3 and IRC Section N1102.1.3 - Tables are amended
as follows:
TABLE N1102.1.3
EQUIVALENT U-FACTORS (a)
 
                                      FRAME                   BASEMENT CRAWL
CLIMATE FENESTRATION SKYLIGT CEIm,.l  WALL   MASS WALL FLOOR  WALL     SPACE
ZONE    U-FACTOR     FACTOR  U-FACTOR FACTOR FACTOR    FACTOR FACTOR   WALL U-
                                                                       FACTOR
4       0.35         0.55    0.03     0.057  0.098            0.059    1/0
 
c.   NON-FENESTRATION U-FACTORS SHALL BE OBTAINED FROM MEASUREMENT, CALCULATION
OR AN APPROVED SOURCE.
d.   WHEN MORE THAN HALF THE INSULATION IS ON THE INTERIOR, THE MASS WALL U-
FACTOR SHALL BE A MAXIMUM OF 0.087.
      3.   IECC R402.3.3 and IRC NI 102.3.3 Glazed Fenestration Exemption.
Replace the printed area of “up to 15 square feet” with “up to 25 square feet”
of glazed fenestration per dwelling unit shall be permitted to be exempt from
U-Factor and SHGC requirements in N 1102.1.1, exemption does not apply to U-
Factor alternative or total alternative approach.
      4.   IECC R402.4.1.1 and IRC NI 102.4.1.1 Installation components of the
building thermal envelope as listed in Table R402.4.1.1 shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and the criteria listed in
Table R402.4.1.1 as applicable to the method of construction. The code official
shall recognize the provisions listed in Table R402A.1.1 as a visual
alternative to building or dwelling unit testing in R402.4.1.2.
      5.   IECC R402.4.1.2 and IRC NI 1024.1.2 Building Thermal Envelope Air
Leakage Testing option the building or dwelling unit shall be tested and
verified as having an air leakage rate of 5 air changes per hour.
   11.   MANUFACTURED HOME CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS
      (A)   Manufactured home construction and safety standards adopted by the
U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), pursuant to the
National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42
USC 5401 et seq., and amendments thereto, are hereby adopted as manufactured
home construction and safety standards for the town. Three copies of 42 USC
5401 are hereby maintained in the Town Clerk’s office and are hereby adopted by
this reference.
      (B)   The Building Official shall not issue a building permit for
installation of a manufactured home within the town unless the manufactured
home can be proven to comply with those standards set forth in division (A)
above. This prohibition shall also apply to any manufactured home unit
installation permit sought to be issued for the relocation of any manufactured
home unit within the town.
      (C)   It shall be the responsibility of permit applicants to demonstrate
to the Building Official that any manufactured home for which an installation
permit is requested is in compliance with the standards set forth in division
(A) above. Proof of compliance shall include: a label certifying that the
manufactured home unit has been inspected and constructed in accordance with
the requirements of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
in effect at the date of manufacture wherein such date shall not have been
prior to June 15, 1976. Additionally, proof that the manufactured home roof
construction complies with a 40lb/sq. ft. snow load capacity prior to issuance.
   12.   INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
      (A)   The International Fire Code, 2018 Edition, published on or after
August 31, 2017 by the International Code Council (ICC), is adopted.
      (B)   The following local amendments to the International Fire Code are
adopted:
         1.   Section 109 is deleted in its entirety. The town’s Board of
Adjustment, organized pursuant to Chapter 3, Section 2-3-1 to 2-3-4 shall act
as the Board of Appeals.
         2.   Section 503.5.1 This section is amended to read as follows: “When
required, gates and barricades shall be secured in an approved manner with a
Knox box lock to facilitate access by fire department personnel, roads, trails,
and other access ways that have been closed or obstructed in the manner
prescribed by Section 503.5 shall not be trespassed on or used unless
authorized by the owner and the town manager.”
         3.   Section 503.6 Security Gates - Is amended by adding:
         The installation of security gates across a fire apparatus access road
shall be approved by the town manager. Where security gates are installed, they
shall have an approved Knox brand padlock for means of emergency operation.
         The installation of security gates across a fire apparatus road shall
be approved by the town manager. Security gates and their emergency operation
shall be maintained operational. The security gates and the emergency operation
shall be maintained at all times. Electric gate operators, where provided,
shall be listed in accordance with UL 325. Gates intended for automatic
operation shall be designed, constructed and installed to comply with the
requirements of ASTM F2200. Electric access gates installed in residential
applications shall be equipped with an approved override key switch and shall
be listed in accordance with UL 325. All electric gates installed for access
control in residential subdivision and commercial applications shall be
equipped with an “Opticom” rapid entry system and an approved key override
system and shall comply with all applicable standards.
         4.   Section 505.1 Address identification - Section 505.1.1 - One and
two-family residential - New and existing One-and two-family residential
buildings shall be provided with approved address identification. The address
identification shall be legible and placed in a position that is visible from
the street or road fronting the property. Address numbers shall be Arabic
numbers or alphabetical letters. Numbers shall not be spelled out.
         5.   Section 505.1.2 All buildings except one and two family - Address
numbers on buildings shall be a minimum of 6 inches high with a 1-inch brush
stroke on a contrasting background.
         New and existing buildings more than 200 feet long or set back from
the road more than 100 feet, shall be identified with building address numbers
that are a minimum of 24 inches high with a 4 inch brush stroke of a
contrasting color.
         Building address shall be visible from all accessible directions.
         Suite numbers are required for multi-tenant complexes and shall be
located over the front door and on the rear door with 6 inch high by 1-inch
brush stroke on a contrasting background. Numbering larger than 6 inch may be
required by the fire code official to obtain adequate visibility of the
premises identification.
         The following is designed to replace the “Fire Flow Requirements,”
Amended Section 507 entitled “Fire Protection Water Supplies”, by adding:
         6.   Section 507.5 Fire Hydrant Systems - Fire hydrant systems shall
comply with Sections 507.5.1 through 507.5.6
         7.   507.5.1 Where required - Where a portion of the facility or
building hereafter constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction is more
than 400 feet from a hydrant on a fire apparatus access road, as measured by an
approved route around the exterior of the facility or building, on-site fire
hydrants and mains shall be provided where required by the town manager.
         Exceptions:
            1.   For Group R-3 and Group U occupancies, the distance
requirement shall be 600 feet.
            2.   For buildings equipped throughout with an approved automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1 or 903.3.1.2,
the distance requirement shall be 600 feet.
            3.   Individual One-and two-family dwellings with a livable area of
1500 feet or less.
         Amended Section 901.6.3 entitled “Records”, by adding:
         8.   Section 901.6.3 Records. Records of all system inspections, tests
and maintenance required by the referenced standards shall be maintained.
         9.   Section 901.6.3.1 Records information. Initial records shall
include the name of the installation contractor, type of components installed
and manufacturer of the components, location and number of components installed
per floor. Records shall include the manufacturers’ operation and maintenance
instruction manuals. Such records shall be maintained for the life of the
installation. Records of all system inspections, tests and maintenance required
by the referenced standards shall be maintained on the premises for a minimum
of three years, annual or semiannual reporting and deficiencies shall be copied
to the authority having jurisdiction electronically within thirty (30) business
days.
         Amended Section 903 entitled “Automatic Sprinkler Systems”, by adding:
         10.   Section 903.1 General. Automatic sprinkler systems shall comply
with this section.
         11.   Section 903.1.1 Alternative protection. Alternative automatic
fire-extinguishing systems complying with Section 904 may be permitted instead
of automatic sprinkler protection where recognized by the applicable standard
and approved by the town manager.
         12.   Section 903.2 Where required. Approved automatic sprinkler
systems in new buildings and structures shall be provided in the locations
described in Sections 903.2.1 through 903.2.12. In addition to the requirements
of the fire codes as listed below, an approved automatic monitored sprinkler
system shall be installed throughout all levels of all new Group B, E, F, M, U
and S occupancies 4800 square feet or greater and install buildings over 3
stories in height regardless of the total square footage.
         Exception: Spaces or areas in telecommunications buildings used
exclusively for telecommunications equipment, associated electrical power
distribution equipment, batteries and standby engines, provided that those
spaces or areas are equipped throughout with an automatic smoke detection
system in accordance with Section 907.2 and are separated from the remainder of
the building by not less than 1-hour fire barriers constructed in accordance
with Section 707 of the International Building Code or not less than 2-hour
horizontal assemblies constructed in accordance with Section 711 of the
International Building Code, or both.
         13.   Section 903.2.1 Group A. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout buildings and portions thereof used as Group A occupancies
as provided in this section.
         14.   Section 903.2.1.1 Group A-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall
be provided throughout stories containing Group A-1 occupancies and throughout
all stories from the Group A-1 occupancy to and including the levels of exit
discharge serving that occupancy where one of the following conditions exists:
            1.   The fire area exceeds 4800 square feet.
            2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.
            3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit
discharge serving such occupancies.
            4.   The fire area contains a multiple-theater complex.
         15.   Section 903.2.1.3 Group A-3. An automatic sprinkler system shall
be provided throughout stories containing Group A-3 occupancies and throughout
all stories from the Group A-3 occupancy to and including the levels of exit
discharge serving that occupancy where one of the following conditions exists:
            1.   The fire area exceeds 4800 square feet.
            2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.
            3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit
discharge serving such occupancies.
         16.   Section 903.2.1.4 Group A-4. An automatic sprinkler system shall
be provided throughout stories containing Group A-4 occupancies and throughout
all stories from the Group A-4 occupancy to and including the levels of exit
discharge serving that occupancy where one of the following conditions exists:
            1.   The fire area exceeds 4800 square feet.
            2.   The fire area has an occupant load of 300 or more.
            3.   The fire area is located on a floor other than a level of exit
discharge serving such occupancies.
         17.   Section 903.2.7 Group M. An automatic sprinkler system shall be
provided throughout buildings containing a Group M occupancy where one of the
following conditions exists:
            1.   A Group M fire area exceeds 4800 square feet.
            2.   A Group M fire area is located more than three stories above
grade plane.
            3.   A Group M occupancy used for the display and sale of
upholstered furniture, or mattresses exceeds 4800 square feet.
         18.   Section 903.2.9 Group S-1. An automatic sprinkler system shall
be provided throughout all buildings containing a Group S-1 occupancy where one
of the following conditions exists:
            1.   A Group S-1 fire area exceeds 4800 square feet.
            2.   A Group S-1 fire area is located more than three stories above
grade plane.
            3.   A Group S-1 fire area used for the storage of commercial motor
vehicles where the fire area exceeds 4800 square feet.
            4.   A Group S-1 occupancy used for the storage of upholstered
furniture or mattresses exceeds 2,500 square feet.
         19.   Amended Sections 903.2 and 907.2. To read “Where an approved
system is required, an approved KNOX brand security box shall be installed at a
location determined by the AHJ (Authority Having Jurisdiction).”
         20.   An applicant may seek an exemption from a provision of the
International Fire Code through the installation of sprinklers if (i)
sprinklers are not otherwise required;
            (ii)   the use of sprinklers would mitigate any danger addressed by
such Code provision;
            (iii)   the exemption request is initiated by the applicant; and
(iv) such exemption is not in contravention of State Law. The approval of any
such request shall be within the discretion of the town manager.
         21.   D103.2 Grade. Fire apparatus access roads shall not exceed 15
percent in grade.
         Exception: Grades steeper than 15 percent as approved by the town
manager.
         22.   Table D103.4. Length 501-750 shall be changed to 24 feet from 26
feet.
         23.   Table 6104.3 footnote d is amended and shall read as follows:
“At a consumer site, the aggregate water capacity of a multi-container
installation, comprised of individual LP-gas containers having a water capacity
of less than 125 gallons, where the total volume equals 125 gallons or more,
the minimum distance shall comply with the appropriate portion of Table 6104.3,
applying the aggregate capacity rather than the capacity per LP-gas container.
If more than one such installation is made, each installation shall be
separated from other installations by at least 25 feet.”
         Propose - Adoption Appendixes B, C, D, F, H & N
         Adopt Appendix L with a threshold of 48 foot tall buildings or 5
stories whichever is less.
   E.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the requirements of this section
shall be guilty of a class one misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in
section 1-4-1 of this code, and may also be required to remove portions of any
building which are in violation of this section.
(2006 Code; amd. Res. R 08-15, 7-15-2008; Ord. O 24-01, 8-20-2024)
9-1-3: MANUFACTURED HOME PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall install or cause to be installed any
manufactured home within the corporate limits of the town without first
obtaining a manufactured home permit issued by the building official.
   B.   Permit Requirements: A manufactured home permit shall not be issued
until satisfactory evidence has been provided by the applicant that the
proposed manufactured home shall conform to all applicable zoning requirements.
   C.   Permit Fee: A manufactured home permit fee shall be adopted by
resolution of the town council.
   D.   Penalty: A person installing a manufactured home without a manufactured
home permit as required under this section may be charged a penalty fee in
addition to the normal permit fee, as established by resolution of the town
council. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Defined
9-2-2: Declared Nuisance
9-2-3: Town Officials; Duties
9-2-4: Standards
9-2-5: Emergency Cases
9-2-6: Owner Absent
9-2-7: Administrative Liability
9-2-8: Violations
9-2-1: DEFINED:
All buildings or structures which have any or all of the following defects
shall be deemed "dangerous buildings":
   A.   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind or other causes so as to
have become dangerous to life, safety or the general health and welfare of the
occupants or the people of the town.
   B.   Those which are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe or because of any other
conditions, constitute a fire hazard or are unsanitary, or otherwise are
dangerous to the health, safety or general welfare of the people of this town.
(2006 Code)
9-2-2: DECLARED NUISANCE:
All "dangerous buildings", as defined by section
9-2-1 of this chapter, are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be
repaired, vacated or demolished as provided in this chapter. (2006 Code)
9-2-3: TOWN OFFICIALS; DUTIES:
   A.   Building Inspector: The building inspector shall:
      1.   Complaints By Persons: Inspect any building, wall or structure about
which complaints are filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall or
structure is or may be existing in violation of this chapter.
      2.   Reports By Town Departments: Inspect any building, wall or structure
reported by the police departments as probably existing in violation of the
terms of this chapter.
      3.   Notify Interested Persons: Notify in writing the owner, occupant,
lessee, mortgagee, agent and all other persons having an interest in said
building, as shown by the land records of the Gila County recorder, of any
building found by him to be a dangerous building, within the standard set forth
in section
9-2-1 of this chapter, that:
         a.   The owner must vacate, or repair, or demolish said building in
accordance with the terms of the notice and this chapter;
         b.   The occupant or lessee must vacate said building or may have it
repaired in accordance with the notice and remain in possession;
         c.   The mortgagee, agent or other persons having an interest in said
building as shown by the land records of the Gila County recorder may at his
own risk repair, vacate or demolish said building or have such work or act
done; provided, that any person notified under this subsection to repair,
vacate or demolish any building shall be given such reasonable time, not
exceeding sixty (60) days, as may be necessary to do, or have done, the work or
act required by the notice provided for herein.
      4.   Description Of Conditions: Set forth in the notice provided for in
subsection A3 of this section, a description of the building or structure
deemed unsafe, a statement of the particulars which make the building or
structure a dangerous building and an order requiring the same to be put in
such condition as to comply with the terms of this chapter within such length
of time, not exceeding sixty (60) days, as is reasonable.
      5.   Report Noncompliance: Report to the town manager any noncompliance
with the "notice" provided for in subsections A3 and A4 of this section.
      6.   Appearance At Hearings: Appear at all hearings conducted by the town
manager or town council and testify as to the condition of dangerous buildings.
      7.   Placement Of Notice; Contents: Place a notice on all dangerous
buildings reading as follows:
This building has been found to be a dangerous building by the Building
Inspector. This notice is to remain on this building until it is repaired,
vacated or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been given to the
owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee or agent of this building, and all other
persons having an interest in said building, as shown by the land records of
the Gila County Recorder. It is unlawful to remove this notice until such
notice is complied with.
   B.   Town Manager: The town manager shall:
      1.   Notice To Appear: Upon receipt of a report of the building
inspector, as provided for in subsection A5 of this section, give written
notice to the owner, occupant, mortgagee, lessee, agent and all other persons
having an interest in said building, as shown by the land records of the Gila
County recorder, to appear before him on the date specified in the notice, to
show cause why the building or structure reported to be a dangerous building
should not be repaired, vacated or demolished in accordance with the statement
of particulars set forth in the building inspector's notice provided for in
subsection A4 of this section.
      2.   Conduct Hearing: Hold a hearing and hear such testimony of
witnesses, including the building inspector and the owner, occupant, mortgagee,
lessee or any other person having an interest in said building, as shown by the
land records of the Gila County recorder, shall offer relative to the dangerous
building.
      3.   Written Findings: Make written findings of fact from the testimony
offered pursuant to subsection B2 of this section as to whether or not the
building in question is a dangerous building within the terms of section
9-2-1 of this chapter.
      4.   Issue Order: Issue an order based upon findings of fact made
pursuant to subsection B3 of this section commanding the owner, occupant,
mortgagee, lessee, agent and all other persons having an interest in said
building, as shown by the land records of the Gila County recorder, to repair,
vacate or demolish any building found to be a dangerous building within the
terms of this chapter; and provided, that any person so notified, including the
owners, shall have the privilege of either vacating or repairing said dangerous
building; or any person having an interest in said building as shown by the
land records of the Gila County recorder may demolish said dangerous building
at his own risk to prevent the acquiring of a lien against the land upon which
said dangerous building stands by the town as provided in subsection B5 of this
section.
      5.   Noncompliance; Town Authority: If the owner, occupant, mortgagee or
lessee fails to comply with the order provided for in subsection B4 of this
section within twenty (20) days, the town manager shall cause such building or
structure to be repaired, vacated or demolished as the facts may warrant, under
the standards provided for in section
9-2-4 of this chapter, and shall, with the assistance of the town attorney
cause the costs of such repair, vacation or demolition to be charged against
the land on which the building existed as a municipal lien or cause such costs
to be added to the tax duplicate as an assessment, or to be levied as a special
tax against the land upon which the building stands or did stand, or to be
recovered in a suit at law against the owner; provided, that in cases where
such procedure is desirable and any delay thereby caused will not be dangerous
to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of the people of this town,
the town manager may notify the town attorney to take legal action to force the
owner to make all necessary repairs or demolish the building.
      6.   Report To Town Attorney: Report to the town attorney the names of
all persons not complying with the order provided for in subsection B4 of this
section.
      7.   Appeal To Town Council: A person to whom an order of the town
manager is directed shall have the right, within ten (10) days of the service
of such order, to appeal to the town council. The town council shall convene a
quorum within thirty (30) days to review such order. If the order is affirmed
or modified, the person to whom it is directed shall comply with the order as
so affirmed or modified within twenty (20) days. If such person fails to comply
with the order, the town manager shall cause such building or structure to be
repaired, vacated or demolished as set forth in subsection B5 of this section.
   C.   Town Attorney: The town attorney shall:
      1.   Appear At Hearings: Appear upon request at all hearings before the
town manager in regard to dangerous buildings.
      2.   Bring Suit: Bring suit to collect all municipal liens, assessments
or costs incurred by the town manager in repairing or causing to be vacated or
demolished dangerous buildings.
      3.   Other Legal Action Necessary: Take such other legal action as is
necessary to carry out the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   D.   Police And Fire Officials: The appropriate fire and police officials
shall promptly make a report in writing to the building inspector of all
buildings or structures which are, may be, or are suspected to be dangerous
buildings within the terms of this chapter. (2006 Code)
9-2-4: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall be followed in substance by the building
inspector in ordering repair, vacation or demolition:
   A.   Repair: If the dangerous building can reasonably be repaired so that it
will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this chapter, it shall be
ordered repaired.
   B.   Vacation: If the dangerous building is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, morals, safety or general welfare of its occupants, it
shall be ordered to be vacated.
   C.   Demolition: In any case where a dangerous building is fifty percent
(50%) damaged or decayed, or deteriorated from its original value or structure,
it may be demolished, and in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so
that it will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this chapter it shall
be demolished. In all cases where a dangerous building is a fire hazard
existing or erected in violation of the terms of this chapter and cannot
reasonably be repaired, it shall be demolished. (2006 Code)
9-2-5: EMERGENCY CASES:
In cases where it reasonably appears that there is immediate danger to the life
or safety of any person unless a "dangerous building", as defined in this
chapter, is immediately repaired, vacated or demolished, the building inspector
shall report such facts to the town manager and the town manager shall cause
the immediate repair, vacation or demolition of such dangerous building. The
costs of such emergency repair, vacation or demolition of such dangerous
building shall be collected in the same manner as provided in subsection 9-2-
3B5 of this chapter. (2006 Code)
9-2-6: OWNER ABSENT:
In cases, except emergency cases, where the owner, occupant, lessee or
mortgagee is absent from the town, all notices or orders provided for in this
chapter shall be sent by registered mail to the owner, occupant, mortgagee,
lessee and all other persons having an interest in said building, as shown by
the land records of the Gila County recorder, to be the last known address of
each, and a copy of such notice shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the
dangerous building to which it relates. Such mailing and posting shall be
deemed adequate service. (2006 Code)
9-2-7: ADMINISTRATIVE LIABILITY:
No officer, agent or employee of the town shall render himself personally
liable for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any
act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under this chapter.
Any suit brought against any officer, agent or employee of the town as a result
of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his duties under this
chapter shall be defended by the town attorney and/or the county risk pool and
its representatives and lawyers until the final determination of the
proceedings therein. (2006 Code)
9-2-8: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Owner: It is unlawful for the owner of any dangerous building to fail
to comply with any notice or order to repair, vacate or demolish said building
given by any person authorized by this chapter to give such notice or order.
   B.   Occupant; Lessee: It is unlawful for the occupant or lessee in
possession to fail to comply with any notice to vacate and to fail to repair
said building in accordance with any notice given as provided for in this
chapter.
   C.   Notice Removal: It is unlawful for any person to remove the notice
provided for in subsection 9-2-3A7 of this chapter. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM 1
(Rep. by Ord. O 09-08, 10-6-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 7, chapter 4 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
DARK SKY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Conformance With Applicable Codes
9-4-3: Approved Material And Methods Of Installation
9-4-4: Definitions
9-4-5: General Requirements
9-4-6: Prohibitions
9-4-7: Permanent Exemptions
9-4-8: Procedures For Chapter Compliance
9-4-9: Temporary Exemptions
9-4-10: Penalties
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is intended to restrict the permitted use of outdoor artificial
illuminating devices emitting undesirable light/rays into the night sky which
have a detrimental effect on astronomical observations. (Ord. O07-06, 6-19-
2007)
9-4-2: CONFORMANCE WITH APPLICABLE CODES:
All outdoor artificial illuminating devices shall be installed in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter, the town zoning regulations, and any
building code ordinance which may hereafter be enacted, as applicable.
Where any provisions of any Arizona state statutes, or any federal law, or any
companion ordinance comparatively conflicts with the requirements of this
chapter, the most restrictive shall govern. (Ord. O07-06, 6-19-2007)
9-4-3: APPROVED MATERIAL AND METHODS OF INSTALLATION:
The provisions of this chapter are not intended to prevent the use of any
material or method of installation not specifically prescribed by this chapter
provided any such alternative has been approved. The community development
director may approve any such alternative provided he finds that the proposed
design, material or method:
   A.   Provides approximate equivalence to those specific requirements of this
chapter; or
   B.   Is otherwise satisfactory and complies with the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. O07-06, 6-19-2007)
9-4-4: DEFINITIONS:
INDIVIDUAL: Any private individual, tenant, lessee, owner, or any commercial
entity including, but not limited to, companies, partnerships, joint ventures
or corporations.
INSTALLED: The initial installation of outdoor light fixtures defined herein,
following the effective date hereof but shall not apply to those outdoor light
fixtures installed prior to such date.
OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURES: Outdoor artificial illuminating devices, outdoor
fixtures, lamps and other devices, permanent or portable, used for illumination
or advertisement. Such devices shall include, but are not limited to, search,
spot, or flood lights for:
   A.   Buildings and structures.
   B.   Recreational areas.
   C.   Parking lot lighting.
   D.   Landscape lighting.
   E.   Billboards and other signage (advertising or other).
   F.   Street lighting. (Ord. O07-06, 6-19-2007)
9-4-5: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Shielding: All exterior illuminating devices, except those exempt from
this chapter and those regulated by subsection 9-4-6C of this chapter shall be
fully shielded as required in subsection C of this section.
"Fully shielded" shall mean that those fixtures shall be shielded in such a
manner that light rays emitted by the fixture, either directly from the lamp or
indirectly from the fixture, are projected below a horizontal plane running
through the lowest point on the fixture where light is emitted.
   B.   Filtration: Those outdoor light fixtures requiring a filter in
subsection C of this section shall have glass, acrylic or translucent
enclosures. (Quartz does not meet this requirement.)
   C.   Requirements For Shielding And Filtering: The requirements for
shielding and filtering light emissions from outdoor light fixtures shall be as
set forth in the following table:
REQUIREMENT FOR SHIELDING AND FILTERING
Fixture Lamp Type Shielded Filtered 3
Fixture Lamp Type                    Shielded Filtered 3
Fluorescent                          Fully4   Yes1
Fossil fuel                          None     None
Glass tubes filled with neon, argon, None     None
krypton
High pressure sodium                 Fully    None
Incandescent (100 W or less)         None     None
Incandescent (greater than 100 W)    Fully    None
Low pressure sodium                  None     None
Mercury vapor                        Fully6   Yes6
Metal halide5                        Fully    Yes
Quartz2                              Fully    None
Other sources                        (As approved by the community development
                                     director)
 
Notes:
1.   Warm white and natural lamps are preferred to minimize detrimental
effects.
2.   For the purposes of this chapter, quartz lamps shall not be considered an
incandescent light source.
3.   Most glass, acrylic, or translucent enclosures satisfy these filter
requirements.
4.   Outdoor advertising signs of the type constructed of translucent materials
and wholly illuminated from within do not require shielding.
5.   Metal halide lamps shall be in enclosed luminaries.
6.   Recommended for existing fixtures. The installation of mercury vapor
fixtures is prohibited effective 90 days after the adoption date hereof.
(Ord. O07-06, 6-19-2007)
9-4-6: PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Searchlights: The operation of searchlights for advertising purposes is
prohibited.
   B.   Recreational Facility: No outdoor recreational facility, public or
private, shall be illuminated after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. except to
conclude a specific recreation or sporting event or any other activity
conducted at a ball park, outdoor amphitheater, arena, or similar facility in
progress prior to eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
   C.   Outdoor Building Or Landscaping Illumination: The unshielded outdoor
illumination of any building, landscaping, signing or other purpose, is
prohibited except with incandescent fixtures of one hundred (100) W or less.
   D.   Mercury Vapor: The installation of mercury vapor fixtures is prohibited
effective ninety (90) days after the adoption date hereof. (Ord. O07-06, 6-19-
2007)
9-4-7: PERMANENT EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Nonconforming Fixtures: All outdoor light fixtures existing and fully
installed prior to the effective date hereof may remain "nonconforming"
indefinitely; provided, however, that no change in use, replacement, structural
alteration, or restoration after abandonment of outdoor light fixtures shall be
made unless it thereafter conforms to the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Fossil Fuel Light: Produced directly or indirectly by the combustion of
natural gas or other utility type fossil fuels.
   C.   Federal And State Facilities: Those facilities and lands owned,
operated or protected by the U.S. federal government or the state of Arizona
are exempted by law from all requirements of this chapter. Voluntary compliance
with the intent of this chapter at those facilities is encouraged.
   D.   Special Exemption: The community development director may grant a
special exemption to the requirements of subsection
9-4-5C of this chapter only upon a written finding that there are extreme
geographic or geometric conditions warranting the exemption and that there are
no conforming fixtures that would suffice. (Ord. O07-06, 6-19-2007)
9-4-8: PROCEDURES FOR CHAPTER COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Applications:
      1.   Any individual applying for a building or use permit under the
zoning regulations intending to install outdoor lighting fixtures shall as a
part of said application submit evidence that the proposed work will comply
with this chapter.
      2.   All other individuals intending to install outdoor lighting fixtures
shall submit an application to the community development director providing
evidence that the proposed work will comply with this chapter.
      3.   Utility companies entering into a duly approved contract with the
town in which they agree to comply with the provisions of these regulations,
shall be exempt from applying for and obtaining a permit for the installation
of outdoor light fixtures, including residential security lighting.
   B.   Contents Of Application Or Submission: The submission shall contain but
shall not necessarily be limited to the following, all or part of which may be
part of or in addition to the information required elsewhere in the town of
Star Valley zoning regulations upon application for the required permit:
      1.   Plans indicating the location on the premises, and the type of
illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports, other devices, etc.
      2.   Description of the illuminating devices, fixtures, lamps, supports
and other devices, etc. This description may include, but is not limited to,
manufacturer's catalog cuts and drawings (including sections where required).
The above required plans and descriptions shall be sufficiently complete to
enable the town of Star Valley community development director to readily
determine whether compliance with the requirements of this chapter will be
secured. If such plans and descriptions cannot enable this ready determination,
by reason of the nature of configuration of the devices, fixtures or lamps
proposed, the applicant shall submit evidence of compliance by certified test
reports as performed by a recognized testing lab.
   C.   Issuance Of Permit: Upon compliance with the requirements of this
chapter, the community development director shall issue a permit for the
installation of the outdoor lighting fixtures to be installed as in the
approved application. In the event the application is part of the building
permit application under the zoning regulations, the issuance of the building
permit will be made if the applicant is in compliance with this chapter as well
as the other requirements for issuance under the zoning regulations. Appeal
procedures of the zoning regulations for decision of the community development
director shall apply.
   D.   Amendment To Permit: Should the applicant desire to substitute outdoor
light fixtures or lamps after a permit has been issued, the applicant must
submit all changes to the community development director for approval, with
adequate information to assure compliance with this chapter. (Ord. O07-06, 6-
19-2007)
9-4-9: TEMPORARY EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Request For Temporary Exemptions: Any "individual" as defined herein
may submit a written request on a form prepared by the community development
department to the community development director for a "temporary exemption" to
the requirements of this chapter. Such temporary exemption to be valid for
thirty (30) days or more at the discretion of the community development
director. The request for a temporary exemption shall contain at a minimum the
following listed information:
      1.   Specific exemptions requested.
      2.   Type and use of exterior light involved.
      3.   Duration of time for requested exemption.
      4.   Type of lamp and calculated lumens.
      5.   Total wattage of lamp or lamps.
      6.   Proposed location of exterior light.
      7.   Previous temporary exemptions, if any.
      8.   Physical size of exterior light and type of shielding provided.
In addition to the above data, the community development director may request
any additional information which would enable him to make a reasonable
evaluation of the request for temporary exemption.
   B.   Appeal For Temporary Exemption: The community development director
within five (5) days from the date of the properly completed request for
temporary exemption, shall approve or reject in writing the request. If
rejected, the individual making the request shall have the right of appeal to
the board of adjustment for review pursuant to the procedures applicable to any
other appeal of a decision of the community development director. (Ord. O07-06,
6-19-2007)
9-4-10: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a class one misdemeanor, and each such person
shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion
thereof during which a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
committed, continued or permitted and upon conviction of any such violation
such person, firm, or corporation shall be punished as prescribed by the
Arizona Revised Statutes. (Ord. O07-06, 6-19-2007)
CHAPTER 5
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN REVIEW GUIDELINES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Purpose And Applicability
9-5-2: Procedure Generally
9-5-3: Building Exterior And Design
9-5-4: Building Materials
9-5-5: Building Colors
9-5-6: Site
9-5-7: Landscaping And Screening Standards
9-5-8: Parking Lot
9-5-9: Signage
9-5-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
   A.   These criteria are not intended to restrict imagination, innovation, or
variety, but rather to assist in focusing design principles, which can result
in creative solutions that will develop a satisfactory visual appearance within
the town, preserve taxable values, and promote the public health, safety and
general welfare. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, this section is
applicable to all commercial and industrial uses within all zoning districts,
and any multi-family development consisting of four (4) or more units under the
same roof in Star Valley.
   B.   Specifically, this is aimed at achieving the following:
      1.   To promote the desired character and a shared vision of future
commercial and multi-family development projects within the town;
      2.   To provide clear design guidance for citizens, developers,
engineers, architects, landscape architects and other professionals in
preparing development and construction plans;
      3.   To provide guidance to town staff, the architectural design review
commission and the town council in reviewing and evaluating future commercial
and multi-family development projects within the town;
      4.   To provide minimum standards for development while allowing the
greatest degree of flexibility and creativity;
      5.   To promote complementary and harmonious development adjacent to
existing commercial and multi-family development.
   C.   The guidelines addressed in this chapter apply to proposed commercial
and multi-family projects, including new projects, additions, renovations,
remodels and other related projects requiring building permits. (Ord. O07-16,
2-7-2008)
   D.   This chapter shall also apply to all commercial buildings, structures
and signs which are hereafter erected, constructed, converted, established,
altered, painted, repainted or enlarged which are located within the town
except those explicitly exempted below.
      1.   Nonilluminated directional leasing or informational signs not
exceeding six (6) square feet;
      2.   Public utility electrical transmission structures. (Ord. O07-12, 8-
21-2007; amd. Ord. O07-16, 2-7-2008)
   E.   The text contained herein and photo illustrations on file with the city
are not intended to dictate solutions and/or limit creativity. They are general
and may be applied with some flexibility in their application to specific
projects. Beyond the guidelines, creative adaptation and innovation are
encouraged, provided the proposed development plan also adheres to general
design principles to the greatest extent possible. Presubmittal review of
development plans and design concepts prior to formal submittal is encouraged
to assist developers and other project proponents in realizing the goals
established within these design guidelines. (Ord. O07-16, 2-7-2008)
9-5-2: PROCEDURE GENERALLY:
Prior to the preparation of final drawings for any building or structure to
which this section is applicable, the property owner or representative shall
submit the following information for consideration by the architectural design
review commission:
   A.   Application for review on forms furnished by the town of Star Valley;
   B.   Preliminary site plan showing the areas devoted to buildings, parking,
and landscaping treatment;
   C.   Elevation drawings of the front, side, and rear of the building or
structure illustrating the building's appearance and treatment. Exterior
materials and colors shall be included on the drawings or a separate list;
   D.   Landscaping plan;
   E.   Other supportive information may be required if deemed necessary by the
architectural design review commission to aid in clarifying the application.
(Ord. O07-12, 8-21-2007)
9-5-3: BUILDING EXTERIOR AND DESIGN:
   A.   Review Of Applications: The architectural design review commission
shall review applications for design approval of new construction, alterations,
additions, or renovations to existing buildings or structures and shall have
the power to conditionally approve, or disapprove all such requests. The
decisions will be based on the following criteria:
      1.   Architectural merit.
      2.   Proportion.
      3.   Openings.
      4.   Pattern.
      5.   Spacing.
      6.   Accessory features.
   B.   Building Design: The overall design of the structure and its site shall
not adversely affect the present or potential development of the nearby
properties or the traffic pattern on abutting streets by virtue of the type of
structure, its placement on the lot, or the location of parking and driveway
access areas. The building design shall integrate building functions (e.g.,
entryways, stairways and mechanical areas) with building elements (e.g., tower,
projecting wall, recess, canopy, angular orientation, and change in building
material). The building design shall avoid large, unadorned facades and
monotonous repetition of unrelated or inappropriate detail.
   C.   Undesirable Elements: Elements that should be minimized or avoided
include:
      1.   Square, "boxlike" structures.
      2.   Large blank, unarticulated wall surfaces.
      3.   Highly reflective surfaces.
      4.   Metal siding on the main facade.
      5.   Gray concrete precision block walls.
      6.   Plastic siding.
      7.   Primary, bright, or fluorescent colors.
   D.   Building Openings: Door openings shall be protected, shaded and
articulated with roof overhangs, building projections or recesses, or other
suitable means. Buildings should have an inviting and lighted entryway and
identifying facade.
   E.   Screening: Screen walls and the screening of on site components (e.g.,
mechanical equipment, parking lots, satellite dishes, and trash bins) shall be
constructed of a material compatible with the primary structure. Mechanical
equipment (e.g., air conditioning, heating and ventilating equipment) shall be
located within a structure or within a roof enclosure of compatible
architectural design and color so as to be screened from all sides as allowed
by code within the limitations of the equipment.
   F.   Rooftop Equipment: Objects other than television or radio antennas and
satellite dishes shall not be placed upon or above the roof of a structure,
except and unless the units are architecturally concealed from view. All
rooftop equipment shall be painted a compatible color to blend with surrounding
colors of roof and screening materials where practical and if allowable. (Ord.
O07-16, 2-7-2008)
9-5-4: BUILDING MATERIALS:
In considering any application for design approval, the architectural design
review commission shall be governed by the following criteria:
   A.   New buildings, structures, signs and exterior remodeling or resurfacing
projects shall be designed with special attention to ADR recommendations.
   B.   Where practical and economically feasible, primary materials used in
the construction of a new building's exterior front, side and rear elevations
should consist of the following:
      1.   Wood: Must be properly stained and treated for pests and the
elements.
      2.   Stone: Must resemble stone predominantly found in the surrounding
natural areas.
      3.   Stucco: Must be used in combination with wood and/or stone. Visible
elevations consisting only of stucco will be reviewed.
      4.   Metal: May be used in combination with a wood and/or stone facade on
all visible sides.
   C.   Synthetic or fabricated materials intended to resemble the above
materials are approved provided they faithfully represent the natural material.
Decorative materials may be used to enhance the decorative features of the
building.
   D.   Materials used in constructing and finishing a structure shall be of
permanent and good quality and be compatible with the materials used in the
structures in the vicinity.
   E.   Where practical and economically feasible, reflective glossy surfaces
and materials should be avoided with the exception of windows. (Ord. O07-16, 2-
7-2008)
9-5-5: BUILDING COLORS:
   A.   Compatibility With Existing Structures: Building color should be
compatible with existing structures and should reinforce the visual character
of the proposed building. The town color book should be consulted and will be
reviewed by the commission every five (5) years.
      1.   The color should not be such that the building is competing for
attention.
      2.   Generally, building colors should be subdued and not garish, and
should not in any way become "signing" of the building or site.
      3.   Warm, muted shades should be used as the body or overall building
background color.
      4.   Brighter and richer hues of related or contrasting color should be
used as accent colors and highlight colors for architectural elements.
      5.   Paint colors should be related to the natural material and colors
found on the building, such as brick, terra cotta, stone, tile, wood or cast
iron.
      6.   Brick and stone should be left natural.
   B.   Building Colors: Exterior walls and roofs, retaining walls, and
accessory structures shall be compatible with the predominant natural colors of
the area. (Ord. O07-16, 2-7-2008)
9-5-6: SITE:
   A.   Compatibility With Existing Structures: It is strongly recommended that
owners or builders consult with the architectural design review commission in
the early planning stages of a new construction project. New construction
should be compatible with existing structures in the immediate area in the
following ways:
      1.   Size, height and setback of structures;
      2.   Relationship of the structures to the open space between it and
neighboring structures;
      3.   Exterior features, such as windowsill or header lines, the
proportion of window and door openings to the overall facade, and the
horizontal or vertical emphasis of major building elements; and
      4.   Building materials.
   B.   Grading: Site grading should respect the natural topography of the site
and preserve existing vegetation as much as possible.
   C.   Site Utilities: On site utilities shall be located underground from the
property line to the building or structure for all uses.
   D.   Effect On Other Properties: The overall site design and design of the
building, structure or sign shall not adversely affect the existing or
potential development of properties in the general proximity.
   E.   Compatibility With Host Development: Buildings detached from the main
commercial development within the same commercial center (pad buildings) shall
be designed in a compatible architectural style, and incorporate the same
materials, colors and landscaping as the host development.
   F.   Circulation: Locate structures and on site circulation systems to
minimize pedestrian/vehicle conflicts where possible. Link structures to the
public sidewalk where possible with textured paving, landscaping and trellises.
   G.   Outdoor Spaces: Recognize the importance of spaces between structures
as "outdoor rooms" that are the public realm. Outdoor spaces should have clear,
recognizable shapes that reflect careful planning and are not simply
"afterthought" areas between structures. Such spaces should provide pedestrian
amenities.
   H.   Loading Facilities: Loading facilities should not be located at the
front of the structure where it is difficult to adequately screen them from
public view. (Ord. O07-16, 2-7-2008)
9-5-7: LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING STANDARDS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of these landscaping requirements is to implement
the goals of the general plan in regard to providing landscaping standards for
landscaping that will capitalize in the town of Star Valley's mountain ranch
forest character and identity while preserving natural resources, native plants
and scarce water supplies.
   B.   Landscaping Requirements:
      1.   Landscape plan: Landscaping will be developed in accordance with
approved plan.
      2.   Plants: Trees to be twenty four inch (24") box or fifteen (15)
gallon, shrubs to be two (2) or five (5) gallon, ground covers to be four
inches (4") to one gallon.
      3.   Hardscape: Will be local granite size one-fourth inch (1/4") to one-
half inch (1/2") and boulders or rock or gravel that is the same color or
compatible with the local native hardscapes.
      4.   Irrigation: All plants must be irrigated with a drip system.
      5.   Prohibited plants:
         a.   Willows: Any plant in the Salix family.
         b.   Poplar: Any plant in the poplar family except quaking aspen.
      6.   Turf: No grass, except buffalo grass or blue gamma grass.
   C.   Preservation Of Existing Vegetation: Preserve existing vegetation and
incorporate native plants, low water need plant communities, and ecosystems
into landscape design. Refer to the town of Star Valley preferred plant list.
   D.   Interpretation Of Landscaping Terms: Where necessary to interpret the
precise meaning of technical landscaping terms used in this section, reference
shall be made to "The American Standard For Nursery Stock", as published by the
American Nursery and Landscape Association (ANLA), which document is hereby
incorporated by reference as if set forth in its entirety herein. A copy is
available for review at town hall or by visiting the ANLA website. (Ord. O07-
16, 2-7-2008)
9-5-8: PARKING LOT:
   A.   Visual and/or physical separation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic
may be required when necessary to ensure the safety of pedestrians or the safe
operation of motor vehicles.
   B.   Parking lots shall be landscaped in accordance with the requirements of
landscaping and screening standards. (Ord. O07-16, 2-7-2008)
9-5-9: SIGNAGE:
   A.   Signs shall relate to the exterior architectural design of the building
or structure and shall be compatible therewith and conform to the sign
regulations.
   B.   All signage shall be compatible with the building architecture and site
design relative to color, material and placement.
   C.   Monument base signs are the preferred alternative for business
identification whenever possible. Where several tenants occupy the same site,
individual wall mount signs are appropriate in combination with a monument sign
identifying the development and address.
   D.   Wall painted signs are prohibited. (Ord. O07-16, 2-7-2008)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ADOPTION OF PLANNING AND ZONING ORDINANCE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Adoption
10-1-1: ADOPTION:
That certain document entitled the zoning ordinance, dated June 20, 2006, is
declared to be the official zoning ordinance of the town and made a part of
this chapter the same as though said ordinance was specifically set forth in
full herein; and at least three (3) copies of said ordinance shall be filed in
the office of the town clerk and kept available for public use and inspection.
(2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CITIZEN REVIEW PROCESS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Purpose
10-2-2: Requirements
10-2-3: Notice Area
10-2-4: Submittals
10-2-5: Citizen Review Report
10-2-6: Requirements Are Cumulative
10-2-7: Early Implementation
10-2-8: Incomplete Citizen Review Plan And Report
10-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the citizen review process is to provide citizens and adjacent
landowners with notice of proposed rezoning map amendments and zoning text
amendments, and the opportunity to express any issues or concerns that they may
have with the proposed rezoning map amendment or zoning text amendment before
the public hearing. (2006 Code)
10-2-2: REQUIREMENTS:
Every application for zoning map amendment and zoning text amendment that
requires a public hearing shall include a citizen review process which must be
implemented prior to the first public hearing. (2006 Code)
10-2-3: NOTICE AREA:
The level of citizen interest and the number of potentially affected parties
will vary depending on the nature of the application and, for zoning map
amendments, the location of the site. The target area for early notification
will be determined by the applicant after consultation with the planning
department. At a minimum, the target area shall include the following:
   A.   Property owners within the public hearing notice area required by other
sections of the planning and zoning ordinance.
   B.   The head of any homeowners' association or registered neighborhood
within the public notice area required by other sections of the planning and
zoning ordinance. (2006 Code)
10-2-4: SUBMITTALS:
Applicants for zoning map amendments and zoning text amendments that require a
public hearing shall submit to the planning department at the time of
application for such zoning map amendment or zoning text amendment a citizen
review plan which includes the following:
   A.   A list of those residents, property owners, interested parties,
political jurisdictions and public agencies that may be affected by the
application;
   B.   How those adjacent to and potentially affected by an application will
be notified that an application has been made;
   C.   How those adjacent to and potentially affected parties will be informed
of the substance of the change, amendment or development proposed by the
application;
   D.   How those affected or otherwise interested will be provided an
opportunity to discuss the applicant's proposal with the applicant and express
any concerns, issues or problems they may have with the proposal in advance of
the public hearing;
   E.   The applicant's schedule for completion of the citizen review process;
   F.   How the applicant will keep the planning department informed of the
status of the citizen review plan;
   G.   Applicants will be responsible for notice and other costs associated
with the citizen review process. (2006 Code)
10-2-5: CITIZEN REVIEW REPORT:
Following completion of the citizen review plan, the applicant shall provide to
the planning department prior to notice of the first public hearing for the
zoning map amendment or text amendment, a written report of their efforts. The
report shall include a description of the notification process, and a summary
of the issues and concerns expressed during the citizen review process. The
report shall be included with the planning department report provided to the
town council and/or planning and zoning commission. (2006 Code)
10-2-6: REQUIREMENTS ARE CUMULATIVE:
These requirements apply in addition to any notice provisions required
elsewhere in the planning and zoning ordinance. (2006 Code)
10-2-7: EARLY IMPLEMENTATION:
The applicant may submit a citizen review plan and begin implementation prior
to formal application for the zoning map amendment or text amendment. This
shall not occur until after the required preapplication meeting and
consultation with the planning department staff, and requires the prior written
approval of the planning department. (2006 Code)
10-2-8: INCOMPLETE CITIZEN REVIEW PLAN AND REPORT:
If the citizen review plan and/or report does not meet the requirements of this
ordinance, the application for the zoning map amendment or zoning text
amendment shall be considered incomplete, and shall not be scheduled for public
hearing. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MINOR LAND DIVISION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Intent And Purpose
10-3-2: Definitions
10-3-3: General Requirement And Procedures
10-3-4: Review Of Minor Land Divisions
10-3-1: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Intent: The intent of this chapter is to provide for the orderly growth
and harmonious development of the town of Star Valley by prescribing certain
minimum requirements regulating the conditions under which divisions of land,
which are not considered a subdivision, may be permitted, and by establishing a
review procedure.
   B.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that minor land
divisions shall: comply with existing zoning regulations; provide adequate
public utility easements; provide for adequate unobstructed legal and physical
access; not constitute a subdivision; not constitute an attempt to evade or
circumvent the laws and regulations governing subdivisions; ensure compliance
with related ordinances, laws and regulations; and provide for conveyance of
accurate legal descriptions. (Ord. O 08-09, 12-16-2008)
10-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
LEGAL ACCESS: A way or means of approach to provide physical entrance to a
property which shall consist of a public street, federal, state or county road,
or a private recorded easement for ingress and egress connecting with any of
the above. Any internal easement for ingress or egress created as a result of a
minor land division shall be a minimum of twenty four feet (24') in width.
MINOR LAND DIVISION: The dividing of one parcel of land into three (3) or fewer
separate parcels, lots or fractional interests. A minor land division does not
include:
   A.   The division of land into lots or parcels each of which is, or will be
thirty six (36) acres or more in area including to the centerline of dedicated
roads or easements, if any, contiguous to the lot or parcel.
   B.   Adjustment of the boundary line between two (2) abutting parcels or
lots, or transfer of land between two (2) owners of abutting parcels or lots
which does not result in the creation of any additional parcel or lot. (Ord. O
08-09, 12-16-2008)
10-3-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENT AND PROCEDURES:
The following documents are hereby incorporated into this chapter:
   A.   Record of survey - minor land division map guidelines.
   B.   Guidelines for processing of minor land division maps.
   C.   Minor land division application.
   D.   Setback certification for minor land divisions. (Ord. O 08-09, 12-16-
2008)
10-3-4: REVIEW OF MINOR LAND DIVISIONS:
Upon submittal of an application and minor land division map, the building
department and planning consultant shall review the map for conformity with
this chapter and the town of Star Valley zoning ordinance. If the map and land
divisions conform to the criteria in this chapter and the zoning ordinance, the
map may be approved by the planning consultant. Once approved, the map is
signed by the town manager.
Any request for a waiver of minimum zoning requirements by the applicant shall
cause the application and map to be submitted to the planning and zoning
commission. (Ord. O 08-09, 12-16-2008)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority
11-1-2: Definitions
11-1-3: Duties Of Planning And Zoning Commission
11-1-4: Appeals And Exceptions
 
Notes
1 1. ARS title 9, chapter 4, article 6.2.
11-1-1: AUTHORITY:
   A.   Statutory Provisions: Provisions of this title are supplemental to
those of Arizona Revised Statutes, section 9-463 et seq., as amended, as the
same now exists or may hereafter be amended.
   B.   Land Subject To Provisions: Any land in the incorporated territory of
the town coming within the definition of a subdivision as herein set forth
shall be subject to all of the provisions of this title.
   C.   Intent: The intent of these regulations is to provide for the orderly
growth and harmonious development of the town, to secure adequate traffic
circulation through properties having optimum utility and livability; to secure
adequate provisions for water supply and distribution, drainage and flood
control, sanitary sewerage and other health requirements; to ensure and
facilitate provision of sites for schools, recreation and other public
purposes; to promote conveyance of land by accurate legal description; and to
establish procedures which will achieve these intents on a basis of mutual
understanding and equitable relationships between public and private interests.
(2006 Code)
11-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ASPHALT: A material made from bituminous materials and aggregates. See
specifications in office of public works director.
ATTORNEY: The town attorney for the town of Star Valley.
COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the town of Star Valley.
CONCRETE: A material made from Portland cement and natural or manufactured
aggregate. See specifications in the office of the public works director.
EASEMENT: A grant by the owner for the use of land for specific conditions,
uses and purposes.
50-YEAR FLOOD: A flood that has a two percent (2%) chance of occurring during
any one year, based upon criteria established by the Arizona department of
water resources. All hydrologic design shall be in conformance with the current
Arizona department of transportation hydrologic design procedures.
HEALTH OFFICER: The health officer of Gila County.
IMPROVEMENT: Such street work, sidewalks, utilities and flood control devices
on the land to be used for public or private streets, highways and easements,
as are necessary for the general use of the residents in the subdivision and
local neighborhood traffic and drainage needs.
PERSON: Any of the following, either singly or combinations thereof, of
individuals, firms, copartnerships, joint ventures, associations, clubs, social
clubs, fraternal organizations, corporations, estates or trusts.
PUBLIC SALE: That point in the transfer or exchange of property at which time
title is transferred or upon close of escrow.
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT: The public works department of the town of Star
Valley.
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR: An employee of the town authorized to direct the public
works department.
RECORDER: The recorder of Gila County.
RESUBDIVISION: The division, or the change in boundaries which have been
previously fixed by a recorded subdivision map, of tracts or parcels, resulting
in four (4) or more additional lots, tracts or parcels.
SERVICE AREA: An area provided for in the subdivision design at the rear of
retail, commercial or multi-family dwelling uses of sufficient size and
accessibility to facilitate the provision of necessary services.
STREETS AND ROADS: A. Alley: A secondary means of access to property located at
the rear or side of property.
   B.   Arterial Highways: Rural routes of countywide importance, spaced at
intervals consistent with population density, to collect traffic from local
roads and bring all developed rural areas within a reasonable distance of a
higher level of service than the local roads. Additional arterial roads may
provide direct service to the communities not directly served by the freeway
and major highway systems and to other locally important traffic generators.
   C.   Cul-De-Sac: A local street open at one end only with special provisions
for turning around, and the further extension of which is precluded by the
subdivision design.
   D.   Expressway: A divided arterial highway for through traffic with full or
partial control of access and generally with grade separations at
intersections.
   E.   Freeway: Those roads and streets with full control access and which
serve corridors of major traffic flow not already served by the interstate
freeways.
   F.   Highway: A right of way designated for vehicular traffic, including
expressway, freeway, road or street.
   G.   Highway, Belt: An arterial highway for carrying traffic partially or
entirely around an urban area or portion thereof for which the minimum right of
way width shall be one hundred ten feet (110').
   H.   Highway, Divided: A highway with separated roadways for traffic in
opposite directions.
   I.   Right Of Way: A general term denoting land, property or interest
therein, usually in a strip acquired for or devoted to a highway, road, street,
alley or utility drainage.
   J.   Roads, Local: Roads primarily for access to abutting lands, such as
farms, rural subdivisions or other low intensity purposes.
   K.   Roadside Strip: The area adjoining the outer edge of the roadway or
street and extending to the right of way line, and in which sidewalks, approved
plantings, approved utility structures and bank slopes may be located.
   L.   Roadway: The portion of a street or highway, including shoulders and
auxiliary lanes, for vehicular travel.
   M.   Street Or Road, Frontage: A local street or road auxiliary to and
located on the side of an expressway, freeway, major highway or secondary
highway for service to abutting property and adjacent area for access control.
   N.   Streets, Collector: Those streets which provide for traffic movement
within neighborhoods and between major streets and local streets and for direct
access to abutting property. The spacing for collector streets is approximately
one-half (1/2) mile, and they may also serve secondary traffic generators, such
as schools, parks and apartment areas with high population density.
   O.   Streets, Commercial: Access streets serving substantial traffic volumes
on relatively short trips in areas where land use is primarily retail sales or
offices. These streets will normally be constructed with highly developed
illumination and drainage and provisions for parking and pedestrian movements.
   P.   Streets, Commercial, Major: A street serving property intended for
commercial use and carrying through traffic.
   Q.   Streets, Dead-End: A local street open at one end only, with temporary
special provisions for turning around and which may be further extended into
adjoining property.
   R.   Streets, Industrial: Access streets serving substantial traffic volumes
and particularly high proportions of commercial vehicles on areas where land
use is predominantly industrial, wholesale trade and goods movement.
   S.   Streets, Industrial, Major: Streets serving property intended for
industrial use and carrying through traffic.
   T.   Streets, Local: Those streets providing direct access to commercial,
industrial or other abutting land and for local traffic service to collector or
major streets.
   U.   Streets, Private: Streets serving only property within the subdivision,
which is not dedicated to public use, and to which access by the public is
controlled by the subdivision design and by either posting or gating.
   V.   Streets, Residential: Other streets in municipalities. In general,
these streets provide access to residential property.
   W.   Streets, Restricted: Short local streets where, due to unusual
conditions as determined by the planning and zoning commission and approved by
the town council, it is impractical to provide a wider right of way.
SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT PLAN: A simple drawing of the proposed subdivision
showing streets, alleys, utility and drainage easements. Subdivisions will be
shown in relation to existing and planned streets within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the subdivision prepared to scale.
SUBDIVISION (OR SUBDIVIDED LANDS): Improved or unimproved land or lands divided
for the purpose of financing, sale or lease, whether immediate or future, into
four (4) or more lots, tracts or parcels of land, or, if a new street is
involved, any such property which is divided into two (2) or more lots, tracts
or parcels of land, or, any such property, the boundaries of which have been
fixed by a recorded plat, which is divided into more than two (2) parts.
"Subdivision" also includes any condominium, cooperative, community apartment,
town house or similar project containing four (4) or more parcels, in which an
undivided interest in the land is coupled with the right of exclusive occupancy
of any unit located thereon, but plats of such projects need not show the
buildings or the manner in which the buildings or airspace above the property
shown on the plat are to be divided. "Subdivision" does not include the
following:
   A.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land to or between adjoining
property owners if such sale or exchange does not create additional lots.
   B.   The partitioning of land in accordance with other statutes regulating
the partitioning of land held in common ownership.
   C.   The leasing of apartments, offices, stores or similar space within a
building or trailer park, nor to mineral, oil or gas leases.
UTILITIES: The installation of facilities, furnished for the use of the public:
electricity, gas, sewer, water, fire hydrants, steam, telephone, cable
television or other facilities, owned and operated by any person, firm,
corporation, municipal department or board duly authorized by state or
municipal regulations.
VICINITY MAPS: A simple drawing of the subdivision showing its location in
relation to established town, county, state or interstate highway drawn to
legible scale. (2006 Code)
11-1-3: DUTIES OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION:
   A.   Specified: The planning and zoning commission shall make investigations
and reports on the design and improvement of proposed subdivisions, and,
subject to the provisions of this title, shall recommend to the town council
proposed maps of subdivisions prepared and filed according to this title, to
designate the kinds, nature and extent of the improvements to be installed in
subdivisions and shall report directly to the subdivider or owner, the action
taken on the tentative maps. The planning and zoning commission shall then
recommend its action to the town council, who shall give its final
recommendation of the preliminary subdivision plat.
   B.   Advisors: There are professionals to act in an advisory capacity to the
planning and zoning commission, and such advisors may consist of the following
members: a registered professional engineer as situations may require, town
public works director, county public health officials, county assessor, town
attorney and other agencies and authorities or other professional advisors as
may be necessary. The advisors shall meet as the matters to be considered by
each may be required. (2006 Code)
11-1-4: APPEALS AND EXCEPTIONS:
In cases of appeal or exceptions, the planning and zoning commission shall:
   A.   Scope: Hear and decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant
that there is an error in any order, requirement, decision, grant or refusal
made by any official in the administration of this title.
   B.   Filing; Hearing: Appeals shall be made in writing and filed with the
planning and zoning commission setting forth the particulars and the reason for
the appeal. Hearing on such cases shall be at such time as set by the planning
and zoning commission, and upon not less than fifteen (15) days or more than
thirty (30) days' notice to the applicant and officials concerned.
   C.   Decision: Hear, approve, disapprove or approve with modifications, upon
appeal, such exceptions from the terms of these regulations as will not be
contrary to the public interest.
   D.   Conditions: In granting an exception, the planning and zoning
commission may attach thereto such conditions regarding the development of the
subdivision as it may deem desirable in the interest and furtherance of the
purpose of the title.
   E.   Findings: In order for the property to come within the provisions of
this section, it shall be necessary that the planning and zoning commission
find the following facts with respect thereto:
      1.   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property;
      2.   That the modification is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right;
      3.   The granting of the modification will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the vicinity;
      4.   No grant or exception shall be authorized unless the planning and
zoning commission specifically finds that the condition or situation for which
the exception is sought is not so typical or recurrent in nature as to make
reasonably practicable the formulation of a general regulation for such
conditions or situation.
   F.   Presence At Meeting: The subdivider or his agent and his engineer shall
be present at the meeting. The subdivider's engineer may act as his agent.
   G.   Appeal To Council: An appellant may further appeal a decision or any
conditions thereto, as rendered by the planning and zoning commission to the
town council for the same reasons and in like manner as prescribed in
subsection A of this section. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STANDARDS OF DESIGN
SECTION:
11-2-1: Conformance
11-2-2: Street Design
11-2-3: Curb And Gutter Requirements
11-2-4: Street And Highway Widths
11-2-5: Frontage Roads
11-2-6: Street Grades
11-2-7: Street Alignment
11-2-8: Intersections
11-2-9: Alleys
11-2-10: Pedestrianways
11-2-11: Blocks
11-2-12: Lots Divided By Boundary Line
11-2-13: Public Service Installations
11-2-14: Dangerous Areas
11-2-15: Property Exclusions
11-2-16: Permanent Access
11-2-17: Flood Control Facilities
11-2-18: Protective Fence
11-2-19: Monuments
11-2-1: CONFORMANCE:
   A.   Generally: All subdivisions shall conform to the following standards of
subdivision design, except in those cases where the planning and zoning
commission determines that the size or shape of the land, topographical
conditions or proposed land use make compliance therewith impractical. Upon
such determination, the planning and zoning commission must make the further
findings required in section
11-1-4 of this title before any exception from these standards of subdivision
design will be allowed.
   B.   General Plan: All subdivision plans shall conform to the requirement of
any plan adopted by the town as a general plan, land use plan, or element
thereof, and to all other requirements established by law, this code or
ordinance. (2006 Code)
11-2-2: STREET DESIGN:
   A.   General:
      1.   Alignment To Existing Streets: The street system in the proposed
subdivision shall relate in alignment to the existing streets in the area
adjoining the subdivision.
      2.   Consideration To Future Subdivision: The proposed street plan shall
give consideration to the future subdivision of adjoining unsubdivided
property.
      3.   Serve Proposed Use Of Abutting Land: All streets shall be designed
to serve the proposed use of the land abutting them.
      4.   Improvements: If a subdivision borders on a street, the subdivider
shall be required to improve the streets in accordance with the requirements of
the public works department and the guide for improvement of subdivision
perimeter streets.
   B.   Special:
      1.   Access Along Major Highways: Along expressways and major highways,
access to private property shall be provided by means of one or more of the
following:
         a.   Frontage road;
         b.   Street separate from the expressway or major highway by a tier of
lots or by;
         c.   Cul-de-sac streets entered from a street other than the
expressway or major highway.
      2.   Design Provisions: Design of streets shall make provision for
railroads, parkways, expressways, grade separations, flood control channels,
irrigation facilities and hillside property.
   C.   Private: Private streets may be platted with the concurrence of the
town council and the planning and zoning commission under the following
conditions:
      1.   Satisfactory Easements: That easements satisfactory for meeting
established minimum standards of design and construction are provided;
      2.   Maintenance: That provision, satisfactory to the public works
department, is made for maintenance of streets;
      3.   Access: That adequate provision is made for access of emergency
vehicles, utility vehicles and vehicles providing services such as garbage and
trash pickup;
      4.   Declaration Of Responsibility: That clear statements be contained in
both deed restrictions and homeowner's association bylaws that those streets be
declared private and remain the permanent responsibility of the homeowner's
association and be so posted;
      5.   Public Health And Welfare Maintained: That the health, safety and
welfare of the public will not be impaired thereby. (2006 Code)
11-2-3: CURB AND GUTTER REQUIREMENTS:
The requirement for schedule A 1  subdivision improvement standards for curbs
and gutters within a proposed urban residential subdivision may be waived when
the subdivision meets the following criteria:
   A.   Grade: The subdivision road grade shall not be more than three percent
(3%).
   B.   Floodwater: The design of the subdivision will preclude the flow of
floodwater on the roadways.
   C.   Pavement Border: A pavement border as approved by the public works
department. (2006 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 11-6-2A of this title.
11-2-4: STREET AND HIGHWAY WIDTHS:
The minimum right of way for residential and secondary streets shall be as
follows:
   A.   Area Service Highway: A highway so designated on the general plan for
which the minimum right of way width shall be one hundred feet (100');
   B.   Collector Street, High Volume: The minimum right of way width shall be
eighty feet (80');
   C.   Collector Street, Residential: The minimum right of way width shall be
sixty (60) or more feet as approved by the planning and zoning commission;
   D.   Cul-De-Sac Streets: Shall not serve more than twenty (20) lots, or be
longer than four hundred feet (400'); roads shall be at least fifty feet (50')
wide with a minimum of one hundred feet (100') turnarounds;
   E.   Major Commercial Streets: Shall have a minimum right of way width of
one hundred feet (100') to provide for four (4) 12-foot traffic lanes, two (2)
8-foot parking lanes, one 16-foot center separation for turning lanes and two
(2) 10-foot roadside stripes;
   F.   Residential Streets: Shall have a minimum right of way of fifty feet
(50') when no utilities are being installed in the right of way. Where
utilities are being installed with the road right of way, the minimum width
shall be increased to sixty feet (60'). (2006 Code)
11-2-5: FRONTAGE ROADS:
The minimum right of way where frontage roads are involved shall be as follows:
   A.   Residential And Agricultural Uses: Roads serving residential and
agricultural uses; an additional forty feet (40');
   B.   Other Uses: Roads serving all other uses; an additional sixty feet
(60'). (2006 Code)
11-2-6: STREET GRADES:
   A.   Maximum: Street grades between six percent (6%) and ten percent (10%)
will be approved only for such distances as topographical conditions make
lesser grades impractical. A grade exceeding ten percent (10%) will be approved
only when conclusive evidence shows that a lesser grade is impractical.
   B.   Minimum: The minimum street grade should not be less than two-tenths of
one percent (0.2%).
   C.   Flat Grades: Flat grades may be considered when adjacent lots or blocks
are designed for ponding storm water.
   D.   Approval Required: All grades shall be approved by the public works
director. (2006 Code)
11-2-7: STREET ALIGNMENT:
   A.   Curves: Curves in residential streets in comparatively level locations
shall have a preferred centerline radius of three hundred feet (300'), a
minimum centerline radius of two hundred feet (200') and in steep hillside
locations a minimum radius of one hundred fifty feet (150'). All other streets
and highways shall have a minimum centerline radius of one thousand feet
(1,000').
   B.   Jogs: Street jogs of less than one hundred fifty feet (150') shall not
be permitted. (2006 Code)
11-2-8: INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Connections: All street connections shall be at approximate right
angles.
   B.   Corners: Street corners shall provide for a minimum twenty five foot
(25') foot curb radius with the property line corner radii designed so as not
to reduce the widths of the roadside strips. (2006 Code)
11-2-9: ALLEYS:
   A.   Width: Where alleys are not required by this code, but are provided for
in the subdivision design at the rear of lots back to back, they shall be
twenty feet (20') wide and improved.
   B.   Intersections: Alley intersections shall have corner cutbacks of not
less than ten feet (10').
   C.   Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sac alleys shall have a turn around at least forty
five feet (45') in diameter. Dead-end alleys are not permitted.
   D.   Paved Service Areas: Paved service areas may be substituted for alleys
at the rear of lots intended for retail business. Service areas used for refuse
collection shall be adequately concealed. (2006 Code)
11-2-10: PEDESTRIANWAYS:
Paved pedestrianways six feet (6') wide shall be provided approximately midway
across blocks over one thousand two hundred feet (1,200') in length or where
deemed by the planning and zoning commission to be necessary for public safety
and convenience. (2006 Code)
11-2-11: BLOCKS:
Blocks shall not be more than one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') in length
unless deemed necessary for public safety and convenience. (2006 Code)
11-2-12: LOTS DIVIDED BY BOUNDARY LINE:
   A.   Through Lots: Through lots are not desirable.
   B.   Prohibited: No lot shall be divided by a city, county, school district
or other taxing agency boundary line.
   C.   Lot Depth-To-Width Ratio: The depth-to-width ratio of the useable area
of lots of less than one acre should not be greater than three to one (3:1).
(2006 Code)
11-2-13: PUBLIC SERVICE INSTALLATIONS:
   A.   Line Location: Public service lines, to include electrical, telephone
and cable TV facilities, shall be located in accordance with the provisions of
the Arizona corporation commission order U-48, at the front of lots or side
lines of lots as necessary, in alleys or easements provided for that purpose;
unless requested differently by the public utility company.
   B.   Within Right Of Way: Electric or telephone service may be located
within the road right of way, subject to a license or franchise, compensation
to the town if permitted, indemnification and insurance for the town,
applicable permits and provided they are installed underground and all
transformers, pedestals, etc., extending above the ground be located behind the
right of way.
   C.   Lot Lines: Lot lines shall be so designated that easements will be
located in practical locations and will be suitable for the proposed use.
   D.   Street Lights: Street lights shall be required in high density
commercial or residential areas. (2006 Code)
11-2-14: DANGEROUS AREAS:
   A.   Restrictions: Areas which by reasons of geological or topographical
conditions, unstable surface conditions, ground water or seepage conditions,
hazard of flood inundations, erosion or any other condition deemed by the
planning and zoning commission to be dangerous or to create unsatisfactory
living conditions, shall not be subdivided except under restrictions as to the
use of all or any part thereof as approved by the planning and zoning
commission.
   B.   Water Control; Basis: Design for the control of waters falling on a
subdivision and storm waters crossing a subdivision shall be based on a storm
generating a 50-year flood. (2006 Code)
11-2-15: PROPERTY EXCLUSIONS:
   A.   When Required: Portions of an adjacent property within the ownership of
the subdivider shall not be excluded from within the boundaries of a
subdivision when needed or required for dedications or improvement of any
traffic, drainage or flood control facility, utility or other access use.
   B.   Size And Shape Conformance: Portions of property within the ownership
of the subdivider, but not included within the boundaries of a subdivision,
shall be of such size and shape as to conform to the provisions of this title
or any element of a general plan. (2006 Code)
11-2-16: PERMANENT ACCESS:
   A.   Minimum: No subdivision shall be recorded unless two (2) permanent,
public access streets, or more as deemed necessary by the planning and zoning
commission, are provided from the subdivision to a city, county, state or
federally maintained road. Public access means a dedication to the county or a
permanent written easement from the state or federal governments.
   B.   Dedication; Approval: Roads dedicated to the town for the purpose of
providing access shall be approved by the public works director prior to
recording and final approval by the town council. (2006 Code)
11-2-17: FLOOD CONTROL FACILITIES:
   A.   Design: Flood control facilities including flood channels, flood
easements and storm drains will be designed to provide adequate protection
against a 50-year flood and shall be approved by the public works director.
   B.   Streets; Highways: Streets and highways shall not be used as flood
channels. (2006 Code)
11-2-18: PROTECTIVE FENCE:
   A.   Types Approved: Protective fence for subdivisions shall be a chainlink
galvanized wire fence, masonry wall or a protective wall or fence or other
acceptable materials along any canal, drain, highway or other feature deemed by
the planning and zoning commission or public works director to be hazardous to
the occupants of the subdivision.
   B.   Abutting Specific Lands: All subdivisions abutting forest land,
government land, range land or as required by the public works department shall
be fenced.
   C.   Cattle Guards: Steel and concrete cattle guards shall be placed on all
fence lines at all access roads entering the subdivision from an opened or free
area, as specified in subsection B of this section. (2006 Code)
11-2-19: MONUMENTS:
All subdivision monuments and stakes shall be in place at the conclusion of
subdivision improvement work. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
TENTATIVE MAPS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Preliminary Steps
11-3-2: Submittal
11-3-3: Date Of Filing Fixed
11-3-4: Map Checking Fee
11-3-5: Identity Of Subdivider
11-3-6: Information Required
11-3-7: Supplemental Information
11-3-8: Boundary Survey
11-3-9: Corner Stakes
11-3-10: Planning And Zoning Commission Action
11-3-11: Time Limits For Action
11-3-12: Resubdivision; Tentative Map Required
11-3-13: Refiling Following Disapproval
11-3-1: PRELIMINARY STEPS:
   A.   Consultation: In order to avoid unnecessary and costly revision, the
subdivider or his engineer is urged to consult early and informally with the
planning and zoning commission, the public works department and the county
health department for advice and assistance before the preparation of the
preliminary plat and formal application for its approval. This will enable him
to become thoroughly familiar with various requirements and any regulations
which might affect the area.
   B.   Tentative Map: The initial action in the development of a subdivision
located in the incorporated territory of the town shall be in the preparation
of a tentative map.
      1.   The size of the tentative maps shall be twenty four by thirty six
inches (24 x 36") and shall be drawn to a fifty (50), one hundred (100) or two
hundred foot (200') to the inch scale, whichever is most appropriate to clearly
present necessary details.
      2.   The tentative map or maps shall show or be accompanied by such data
as are specified in sections
11-3-5 through
11-3-8 of this chapter. (2006 Code)
11-3-2: SUBMITTAL:
   A.   Filing; Distribution: The subdivider shall file ten (10) copies of the
preliminary map or maps, along with the map checking fee, in the office of the
town clerk. The town clerk shall cause to be transmitted copies of the
preliminary plat to the planning and zoning commission, public works
department, the county health department and all interested utilities. The
officials shall review the plat for matters within their jurisdiction and
promptly report their recommendations to the planning and zoning commission,
who shall check the plat for conformity to this chapter.
   B.   Date: The date of filing will be a minimum of ten (10) days prior to
the date the subdivider desires a formal hearing by the planning and zoning
commission. (2006 Code)
11-3-3: DATE OF FILING FIXED:
The date of filing a preliminary map shall be fixed as the date on which all of
the maps and information required by this chapter have been filed, as
determined by the staff, and the required fees have been paid. (2006 Code)
11-3-4: MAP CHECKING FEE:
The preliminary map shall be accompanied by a map checking fee. The map
checking fee shall be shown on a separate fee schedule as determined by the
town council. (2006 Code)
11-3-5: IDENTITY OF SUBDIVIDER:
When submitting the preliminary map, the subdivider shall certify in writing to
one of the following:
   A.   That he is the record owner of the property;
   B.   That the identified record owner of the property consents in writing to
the filing of the map. (2006 Code)
11-3-6: INFORMATION REQUIRED:
The following information shall be delineated on the preliminary map, except
those items determined by the staff as not being pertinent to a particular
tract:
   A.   Title of map and legal description of property.
   B.   Name and address of owner and subdivider.
   C.   Name and address of person preparing map.
   D.   Approximate acreage and overall dimensions.
   E.   North point, scale and date.
   F.   Subdivision boundary line and vicinity map.
   G.   Names, book and page number of adjoining subdivision.
   H.   Names, locations and widths of adjacent streets.
   I.   Identifying landmarks and existing structures, both above and below
around.
   J.   Proposed names, locations and widths of streets.
   K.   Approximate grades of proposed and existing streets.
   L.   Streets and rights of way providing permanent access to the property.
   M.   Excavations within two hundred feet (200') of the subdivision.
   N.   Approximate radii of curves.
   O.   Widths of alleys and easements.
   P.   Names and addresses of utility companies and locations of existing and
proposed public utilities.
   Q.   Elevations of sewer at proposed main connections.
   R.   Existing culverts and drain pipes.
   S.   Watercourses and channels including proposed facilities for control of
storm waters.
   T.   Land subject to overflow and inundations for flood hazard.
   U.   Railroads and other rights of way.
   V.   Lands and parks to be dedicated to public use.
   W.   Dimension of reservations.
   X.   Proposed lot lines and approximate dimensions.
   Y.   Adjoining property and lot lines.
   Z.   Contours with maximum interval as follows:
      Slope   Interval
      0 – 2 percent   1 foot
      3 – 9 percent   2 feet
      10 percent plus   5 feet
   AA.   Existing use of property immediately surrounding tract.
   BB.   Source of water supply, size and location of water lines.
   CC.   Method of sewage disposal.
   DD.   Method of fire protection. (2006 Code)
11-3-7: SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:
Reports and written statements on the following matters shall accompany the
tentative map:
   A.   Development Plan: Subdivision development plan when the subdivision is
larger than forty (40) acres or is developed in phases.
   B.   Water Service And System: A written statement from the Gila County
health officer stating that:
      1.   A water company under permit has agreed in writing to serve all lots
in the subdivision; or
      2.   The subdivider has an acceptable well and water delivery system.
   C.   Solid Waste Disposal And Sewage: A written statement from the Gila
County health officer stating the type of solid waste disposal and sewage
disposal that will be permitted. To aid in this determination, the health
officer will require soil percolation tests or other pertinent information. If
sanitary sewer facilities and a sewage disposal plant are proposed, the method
by which the operation and maintenance will be accomplished and financed.
   D.   Street Improvement: Type of street improvement.
   E.   Utilities: Utilities to be installed.
   F.   Storm Water Control: Proposed method of control of storm water,
including data as to grade and dimension.
   G.   Covenants: Protective covenants proposed to be recorded.
   H.   Private Street Maintenance: If private streets or other ways of
necessity are proposed, the method by which their maintenance will be
accomplished and financed.
   I.   Tree Planting: Proposed tree planting if within public rights of way.
   J.   Wells; Statement: Where the minimum lot size of all lots is in excess
of two and one-half (21/2) net acres in area, the subdivider shall not be
required to have a water company under permit or to furnish water to each lot,
but shall furnish a statement of quantity and quality of any wells existing on
the property or the estimated cost and feasibility of drilling wells if none
exist.
   K.   Engineer Certification: The name and address of the professional
engineer who will provide the certification of completed improvements and
inspection pursuant to section
11-6-4 and subsection
11-6-9B of this title.
   L.   Other Required Information: Such other supplemental information as the
planning and zoning commission may require.
   M.   Percolation tests supported by a certified engineering opinion that the
land is suitable to support absorptive filter fields for the proposed
residential SV density and would not negatively impact existing wells in the
area.
   N.   By note, the existing zoning classification of the subject tract and
adjacent tracts.
   O.   Statements shall appear on the plat as to the types, source and
adequacy of sewage disposal; electric and gas supply and service for telephone,
garbage removal and, if applicable, cable television.
   P.   Proposed number of development units, including individual and average
lot sizes (in square feet).
   Q.   Location, width and names of all platted streets, utility right of way
of public record, public areas, and municipal corporate lines within, adjacent
to and/or extending from the tract.
   R.   Location of all existing improvements, public rights of way and on
private property, including utility lines and grading or draining structures.
   S.   Typical lot dimensions (scaled); dimensions of all corner lots and lots
of curvilinear sections of streets; each lot numbered individually; and total
number of lots or dwelling units. (2006 Code)
11-3-8: BOUNDARY SURVEY:
   A.   Required: A boundary survey of the subdivision including all courses
and distances necessary to compute a closure on the preliminary plat.
   B.   Data: Sufficient data to prove the method by which the boundary was
determined, including a description of all corners found or set, adjoining maps
or property lines and records. (2006 Code)
11-3-9: CORNER STAKES:
Upon filing a tentative map, the subdivider shall immediately place a
conspicuous stake and flag at each corner, angle point to curve point of the
property proposed to be subdivided. Said stake shall extend at least three feet
(3') above the ground, except where the corner is on a roadway. (2006 Code)
11-3-10: PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION ACTION:
Within sixty (60) days after the date of filing, the planning and zoning
commission shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove said map and the
action of the planning and zoning commission shall be noted on two (2) copies
of the tentative plat. Conditions resulting in conditional approval or
disapproval will be noted and referenced. One copy shall be returned to the
subdivider and the other retained for the planning and zoning commission's
records. (2006 Code)
11-3-11: TIME LIMITS FOR ACTION:
The time limits for acting and reporting on tentative maps as specified in this
chapter may be extended by mutual consent of the subdivider and the town
council or planning and zoning commission as the case may be. If no action is
taken within these time limits, the tentative map as filed shall be deemed to
be approved and it shall be the duty of the planning and zoning commission to
certify the approval. (2006 Code)
11-3-12: RESUBDIVISION; TENTATIVE MAP REQUIRED:
A tentative map showing data and information required by this chapter shall be
required when the resubdivision of lots, tracts or parcels previously recorded
as a subdivision or portion of a subdivision resulting in four (4) or more
additional lots, tracts or parcels. (2006 Code)
11-3-13: REFILING FOLLOWING DISAPPROVAL:
In the event that a tentative map is disapproved by the planning and zoning
commission, a new tentative map of the same area or portion thereof may be
filed within six (6) months of the date of disapproval. A refiling after six
(6) months shall be treated as a new submission. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
FINAL MAPS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Preparation
11-4-2: Conformance To Standards Of Design
11-4-3: Street Names
11-4-4: Map Requirements
11-4-5: Data Required
11-4-6: Centerlines And Boundaries
11-4-7: Lot Description And Identification
11-4-8: Filing; Accompanying Documents
11-4-9: Checking By Town Staff
11-4-10: Certificates And Acknowledgments
11-4-11: Extension Of Time
11-4-12: Resubdivision Map
11-4-13: Reversion To Acreage Map
11-4-14: Approval
11-4-1: PREPARATION:
   A.   Compliance With Tentative Map: After approval of a tentative map by the
planning and zoning commission, the subdivider may, within one year, cause a
final map of the subdivision or any part thereof to be prepared in accordance
with a completed survey of the subdivision and in compliance with the approved
tentative map within the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Monuments: The survey and final map shall be made by a registered civil
engineer or licensed land surveyor who shall set sufficient durable monuments
so that another engineer or surveyor may readily retrace the survey. He shall
also set such additional monuments as may be required by the public works
department. (2006 Code)
11-4-2: CONFORMANCE TO STANDARDS OF DESIGN:
The final map shall conform in all respects to the standards of design set
forth in chapter 2 of this title, unless any nonconformance has been
specifically shown on the approved tentative map and approved in the conditions
of approval attached. (2006 Code)
11-4-3: STREET NAMES:
Streets shown on the final map shall be named as approved by the planning and
zoning commission and the town council. (2006 Code)
11-4-4: MAP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Scale: The final map shall be clearly and legibly delineated upon
tracing material of acceptable quality. All lines, letters, figures,
dedications, certificates, acknowledgments and signatures shall be made in
black, waterproof India ink or equal. The net size of each sheet shall be
twenty four by thirty six inches (24 x 36"). A marginal line shall be drawn
completely around each sheet, leaving an entirely blank margin of one-half inch
(1/2"), except the left margin which shall be two inches (2"). The scale of the
map shall be large enough to show all details of the subdivision or part
thereof to be recorded and enough sheets shall be used to accomplish this end.
   B.   Numbering Sheets: If more than one sheet is required, each sheet shall
be numbered, the relation of one sheet to another clearly shown and the number
of sheets shall be set forth on each sheet.
   C.   Scale, North Point, Sheet Number: The scale, north point and sheet
number shall be shown on each sheet of the final map. The scale shall be fifty
(50), one hundred (100) or two hundred feet (200') to the inch.
   D.   Map Notes: A statement labeled "Map Notes" shall be shown on one sheet
of the final map. Such statements shall include the basis of bearings, what
monuments were found, what monuments and points were set, a key to symbols and
abbreviations and such other information deemed to be necessary.
   E.   Surveys: Surveys made in preparation of final maps shall be made in
accordance with standard practices and principles of surveying. A traverse of
the boundaries of the subdivision and all lots and blocks shall close within a
limit of error of one foot (1') in twenty five thousand feet (25,000'). (2006
Code)
11-4-5: DATA REQUIRED:
The following additional data shall be shown on each final map:
   A.   Dates: Dates of survey and preparation of map.
   B.   Street Names And Locations: Locations and names, without abbreviations,
of all proposed streets and alleys; proposed public areas and easements;
adjoining streets.
   C.   Lot Dimension: Dimensions of all lots; lots containing one acre or more
shall show net acreage to the nearest hundredth of an acre. Ditto marks shall
not be used.
   D.   Street Lines And Lengths: Centerlines of all streets and lengths,
tangent radius and central angle or radial bearings of all curves; and the
bearings of radial lines to each lot corner of a curve; the width of each
street, the width of the portion being dedicated and the width of existing
dedication.
   E.   Line Bearing And Length: Sufficient data to determine readily the
bearing and length of each line.
   F.   Survey Control Points: Suitable primary survey control points.
   G.   Adjacent Subdivision Ties: Ties to and recording references to adjacent
subdivisions and section corners, or two (2) known monuments as appropriate.
   H.   Easement Data: Centerline data, width and side lines of all easements
to which the subdivision is subject. Distances and bearings on the side lines
of lots which are cut by an easement shall be shown as to indicate clearly the
actual lengths of the lot's lines. The width of the easements and the lengths
and bearings of the lines thereof and sufficient ties to locate the easements
definitely with respect to the subdivisions shall be shown. The easement shall
be clearly labeled and identified and, if already of record, proper reference
to the records given. Easements being dedicated shall be so indicated in the
certification of dedication. Easements shall be shown on the map by broken
lines.
   I.   Boundary Evidence: Clear indication of stakes, monuments or other
evidence on the ground to determine the boundaries of the subdivision.
   J.   All the requirements of and consistent with the preliminary or
tentative map. (2006 Code)
11-4-6: CENTERLINES AND BOUNDARIES:
Wherever the surveyor has established the centerline of a street or alley, that
data shall be considered in making the surveys and in preparing the final map,
and all monuments found shall be indicated and proper reference made to field
books or maps of public record relating to the monuments. If the points were
reset by ties, that fact shall be stated. The final map shall show town and
county boundaries adjoining the subdivision. (2006 Code)
11-4-7: LOT DESCRIPTION AND IDENTIFICATION:
   A.   Numbering: Lots shall be numbered consecutively on each final plat with
no omissions or duplications. Each lot shall be shown in its entirety on one
sheet. Lots used for streets, alleys or recreational purposes shall be
lettered.
   B.   Corner Marking: All lot corners shall be marked with pipe or iron rods
and marked with the engineer's or surveyor's number before recording of final
plat; minimum: pipe one-half inch (1/2") ID x fifteen inches (15"), deformed
rod one-half inch by fifteen inches (1/2" x 15"). (2006 Code)
11-4-8: FILING; ACCOMPANYING DOCUMENTS:
Two (2) Mylar copies of the final map shall be filed for checking in the office
of the town clerk and shall be accompanied by the following:
   A.   Distribution: Five (5) positive prints thereof, which shall be
distributed as follows:
      1.   Two (2) to the planning and zoning commission;
      2.   Two (2) to the public works department; and
      3.   One to the county health officer.
      4.   Water and sewer designs, where applicable, will be submitted to the
Arizona department of environmental quality (ADEQ).
   B.   Improvement Plans And Specifications: Plans and specifications of the
proposed improvements, including street, sewer, electric and water utilities,
drainage, flood control and improvements meeting adopted town construction
standards and specifications.
   C.   Covenants: A copy of the protective covenants to be recorded. Said
covenants shall provide for the raising and expenditure of funds necessary for
the maintenance of any private streets shown on the map.
   D.   Water Distribution System: Two (2) Mylar copies and three (3) positive
prints of a map showing the proposed water distribution system, signed by the
public works director. The distribution system shall comply with all applicable
state and county regulations. (2006 Code)
11-4-9: CHECKING BY TOWN STAFF:
After issuance of a receipt for the final map and accompanying supplemental
data, the staff will examine it as to sufficiency of affidavits and
acknowledgments, correctness of surveying data, mathematical data and
computations and such other matters as require checking to ensure compliance
with the provisions of this chapter. (2006 Code)
11-4-10: CERTIFICATES AND ACKNOWLEDGMENTS:
The final map shall show all certificates and acknowledgments. They shall
appear on the final map, or they may be combined on a separate linen of the
same size on the final map. (2006 Code)
11-4-11: EXTENSION OF TIME:
   A.   Authority; Appeal: Upon application by the subdivider, an extension for
submission of the final map of up to one year may be granted by the planning
and zoning commission. In the event the planning and zoning commission denies a
subdivider's application for extension, the subdivider may appeal to the town
council.
   B.   Recording Time Limit: Failure to record a final map within one year
from the approval or conditional approval of the tentative map, or any
extension of approval of the final map granted by the town council or planning
and zoning commission, shall terminate all proceedings. The town council or
planning and zoning commission may approve an additional extension of time for
recording the final map if circumstances exist beyond the control of the
subdivider.
   C.   Application: Any application of a subdivider for such extension of time
for the recording of a final map shall be made in writing to the planning and
zoning commission not less than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the
one year allowed. All persons appearing as owners or authorized agents of the
subdivision shall execute the request for extension. (2006 Code)
11-4-12: RESUBDIVISION MAP:
A final map showing data required by section
11-4-5 of this chapter shall be submitted when the resubdivision of lots,
tracts or parcels previously recorded as a subdivision or portion of the
subdivision results in four (4) or more additional tracts or parcels. (2006
Code)
11-4-13: REVERSION TO ACREAGE MAP:
   A.   Marking: Maps filed for the purpose of reverting subdivided lands to
acreage shall be conspicuously marked under the number, "The Purpose of this
Map is a Reversion to Acreage".
   B.   Procedures; Certificates: Procedures and certificates for the purpose
of reversion to acreage may be obtained from the planning and zoning
commission. (2006 Code)
11-4-14: APPROVAL:
   A.   Conditions: No record of survey or plat for record may be filed until
all improvements are completed (see section
11-6-9 of this title) or a bond equal to their value has been posted with the
town clerk.
   B.   Endorsement: When the final map is found to be in the correct form and
the certificates and acknowledgments are sufficient, and the improvements
certified as complete (see subsection A of this section), the planning and
zoning commission shall endorse their approval and transmit it, together with
the deed restrictions, to the town council for their approval and recording.
(2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DEDICATION AND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: Dedication
11-5-2: Improvement Standards
11-5-3: Improvement Plans
11-5-4: Evidence Of Title
11-5-5: Construction And Inspection
11-5-6: Soil And Materials Tests
11-5-7: Protective Covenants And Restrictions
11-5-1: DEDICATION:
   A.   Offer: All streets, highways, alleys and parcels of land shown on the
final map and intended for any public use shall be offered for dedication. Such
dedications shall be free of all and any encumbrances incurred subsequent to
the date of filing of the tentative map.
   B.   Private Streets Indicated: The fact that any streets and ways are
private shall be clearly indicated on the map.
   C.   Special Easement Dedications: When in the opinion of the planning and
zoning commission the location of the proposed subdivision is such that a
significant impact may develop between future residents of the subdivision and
existing land uses in the vicinity, appropriate special easements dedicated to
adjacent property owners may be required of the subdivider prior to recording
of the final map. (2006 Code)
11-5-2: IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS:
All improvements shall be according to the subdivision improvement standards as
established in
chapter 6 of this title, except as provided herein. (2006 Code)
11-5-3: IMPROVEMENT PLANS:
   A.   Required: All improvements made, constructed or installed in
subdivisions shall be according to full and detailed plans and specifications
as approved in writing by the public works director prior to the commencement
of said improvement work.
   B.   Approval: Such plans and specifications as required by the public works
department shall be submitted to and shall be approved by the public works
department before submitting the final map to the town council.
   C.   Applicability: This section shall include all work done in the
subdivision whether such work is required by the town or is done at the option
of the subdivider.
   D.   Dead-End Streets: Plans for improvements of streets which temporarily
dead end at the subdivision boundary shall include data sufficient to determine
that the future extensions of such streets are feasible where necessary. (2006
Code)
11-5-4: EVIDENCE OF TITLE:
At the time the final map is filed in the office of the town clerk, as provided
in section
11-4-8 of this title, it shall be accompanied by the evidence of title, which
shall be in the form of a certificate of title, a preliminary title report or a
policy of title insurance issued by a title company authorized by the laws of
the state to write the same, showing the names of persons having any interest
and any record title interest in the land to be subdivided, together with the
nature of their respective interests therein. (2006 Code)
11-5-5: CONSTRUCTION AND INSPECTION:
All improvements in the public right of way shall be constructed under the
general inspection and approval of the town. Primary responsibility for control
of the quality of the improvements remains with the subdivider, and he shall,
upon completion of the improvement, provide a certificate from a registered
professional engineer that all work has been completed in accordance with
approved plans and specifications as specified in
chapter 6 of this title. It should not be expected that inspection by
representatives of the town will in any way eliminate the need for regular
inspection during the entire construction period by the subdivider's project
engineer. The public works department shall be notified at least three (3)
working days prior to restart of construction. (2006 Code)
11-5-6: SOIL AND MATERIALS TESTS:
The public works department shall have the right to enter upon the sites of
improvements for the purpose of inspecting them and shall be furnished with
soil and materials tests by a competent laboratory as may be required to
determine the acceptability of such materials. The costs of these tests shall
be borne by the subdivider. (2006 Code)
11-5-7: PROTECTIVE COVENANTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
A copy of the recorded protective covenants and restrictions will be provided
for the planning and zoning commission upon recordation of the final map. (2006
Code)
CHAPTER 6
IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-6-1: General
11-6-2: Lot Schedules
11-6-3: Acceptance Of Streets And Roads
11-6-4: Domestic Water Supply
11-6-5: Fire Protection
11-6-6: Sewage Disposal
11-6-7: Flood Protection And Tract Drainage
11-6-8: Protective Fence
11-6-9: Subdivision Improvements
11-6-1: GENERAL:
   A.   Improvements installed in subdivisions shall be constructed in full
conformance to this title and to the subdivision construction standards of the
county of Gila.
   B.   In the absence of a standard for an improvement proposed by the public
works department, the department may establish a standard in keeping with good
construction and engineering practice. (2006 Code)
11-6-2: LOT SCHEDULES:
   A.   Schedule A; Less Than One Acre:
      1.   Streets: The minimum improvement for subdivision streets as required
by this schedule are hereby established when included in the proposed
subdivision design at the option of the planning and zoning commission and the
public works director.
         a.   Collector street - residential area with sixty feet (60') of
right of way: concrete curbs and gutters with forty four feet (44') between
curbs (two 12-foot lanes, two 10-foot lanes, asphalt paving).
         b.   Frontage street - or road with forty feet (40') of right of way:
concrete curbs and gutters with twenty eight feet (28') between curbs (two 14-
foot lanes), restricted parking or with thirty feet (30') between curbs, (two
11-foot lanes, one 8-foot lane); two feet (2') separation from highway right of
way; asphalt pavement.
         c.   Major commercial street - with one hundred feet (100') of right
of way: concrete curbs and gutters with eighty feet (80') between curbs (four
12-foot lanes, two 8-foot lanes, one 16-foot left turn lane); five foot (5')
concrete sidewalk adjacent to curbs; asphalt pavement.
         d.   Residential streets - with fifty feet (50') of right of way:
concrete curbs and gutters with thirty eight feet (38') to the back of the
curbs (two 11-foot lanes, two 8-foot lanes); asphalt pavement.
         e.   Street name signs and traffic control signs.
         f.   Barricade at end of dead end street may be required.
      2.   Curbs And Gutters: Different types of curbs, gutters or combination
of the two (2) may be required to accommodate drainage issues. If any
modification is made to the typical detail outlined in the MAG specification
manual (detail #220) approval must be obtained by the town engineer or the
public works director.
   B.   Schedule B; One Acre Or More, Less Than Two And One-Half:
      1.   Streets: The minimum improvements for subdivision streets as
required by this schedule are hereby established when included in proposed
subdivision design, at the option of the planning and zoning commission and the
public works director.
         a.   Collector street - residential area with sixty feet (60') or
eighty feet (80') of right of way as approved by the public works director;
with concrete retainer curbs and gutters, thirty six feet (36') of asphalt
pavement plus shoulders.
         b.   Frontage street - or road with forty feet (40') of right of way:
thirty two feet (32') of asphalt pavement; concrete curbs and gutters; two feet
(2') separation from major highway right of way.
         c.   Major commercial street - with one hundred feet (100') of right
of way: concrete curbs and gutters with eighty feet (80') between curbs (four
12-foot lanes, two 8-foot lanes, one 16-foot left turn lane); five foot (5')
concrete sidewalks adjacent to curbs; asphalt pavement.
         d.   Residential streets - with fifty feet (50') of right of way:
concrete curbs and gutters, twenty six feet (26') of asphalt pavement plus
shoulders.
         e.   Street name signs and traffic control signs.
         f.   Barricade at end of dead end streets may be required.
      2.   Curbs And Gutters: Different types of curbs, gutters or combination
of the two (2) may be required to accommodate drainage issues. If any
modification is made to the typical detail outlined in the MAG specification
manual (detail #220) approval must be obtained by the town engineer or the
public works director.
   C.   Schedule C; Lots More Than Two And One-Half Acres:
      1.   Streets: The minimum improvements and right of way for subdivision
streets as required by this schedule are hereby established as follows:
         a.   Collector street - residential area with sixty feet (60') or
sixty six feet (66') of right of way as approved by the public works director:
concrete curbs and gutters, twenty four feet (24') of asphalt pavement plus
shoulders.
         b.   Frontage Street - or road with forty feet (40') of right of way:
concrete curbs and gutters, twenty four feet (24') of asphalt pavement, four
foot (4') shoulders; two feet (2') separation from major highway right of way.
         c.   Major commercial street - with one hundred feet (100') of right
of way: concrete curbs and gutters with eighty feet (80') between curbs (four
12-foot lanes, two 8-foot lanes, one 16-foot left turn lane); five foot (5')
concrete sidewalks adjacent to curbs; asphalt pavement.
         d.   Residential streets - with fifty feet (50') of right of way:
concrete curbs and gutters, twenty four feet (24') of BST pavement plus
shoulders.
         e.   Street name signs and traffic control signs.
         f.   Barricade at end of dead end streets may be required.
      2.   Waiver: In the event the requirement for pavement, curbs and gutters
is waived by the planning and zoning commission and the town council, streets
shall be installed to a width and of a material as approved by the public works
director. (2006 Code)
11-6-3: ACCEPTANCE OF STREETS AND ROADS:
Subdivision streets will be accepted for maintenance by the town only when they
are constructed, without cost to the town, to meet the minimum Gila County
construction standards and the minimum standards as set forth in this title.
(2006 Code)
11-6-4: DOMESTIC WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Less Than Two And One-Half Acres: Subdivisions having lots of less than
two and one-half (21/2) net acres in area shall be provided with a complete
water distribution system which will adequately serve the subdivision in the
opinion of the town.
   B.   More Than Two And One-Half Acres: In subdivisions having lots of more
than two and one-half (21/2) acres, the subdivider shall provide a statement as
to the availability of a water source and the anticipated costs to the buyer of
obtaining such water. (2006 Code)
11-6-5: FIRE PROTECTION:
Fire hydrants and a fire distribution system shall be provided in accordance
with the recommendations or requirements of the town or other fire officials
with applicable authority. (2006 Code)
11-6-6: SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Connection To Public System: Subdivisions shall be provided with a
sanitary sewer connection to each lot when the nearest boundary of the
subdivision is within one thousand four hundred feet (1,400') of a public
sanitary sewer system.
   B.   Unavailability: Whenever a public sanitary sewer system is not
available to a subdivision, proper provision shall be made for the disposal of
sewage in accordance with the standards and requirements of the Gila County
health department. (2006 Code)
11-6-7: FLOOD PROTECTION AND TRACT DRAINAGE:
   A.   Minimum Facilities: The minimum facilities for the control of
floodwaters crossing, flowing into or falling upon a subdivision shall be
designed on the basis of a 50-year flood.
   B.   Streets And Highways: Streets and highways shall not be used as flood
channels. (2006 Code)
11-6-8: PROTECTIVE FENCE:
Protective fence requirements for subdivisions are established as a five foot
(5') chainlink galvanized wire, masonry, wood or other acceptable material for
fencing, along any canal, drain, expressway or other feature deemed by the
planning and zoning commission or the public works department to be hazardous.
(2006 Code)
11-6-9: SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   Completion: All streets, improvements, stakes and monuments shall be
completed and in place or a bond, trust, improvement district or some other
appropriate security as approved by the town council shall be provided to
ensure completion of the subdivision improvements prior to the sale of any land
or lots appurtenant to such streets and improvements.
   B.   Certificate: Following the completion of all required improvements
including, but not limited to, lot staking, survey monuments, streets,
drainageways, public water supply, water distribution, sanitary sewer, sewage
disposal and solid waste disposal facilities, a certificate shall be executed
by a professional engineer registered to practice in the state, certifying that
said improvements have been made under his direction in accordance with the
provisions of these subdivision regulations and in accordance with the plans of
such as approved by the public works department upon which approval of the
final plat was based and shall be submitted to the public works director. (2006
Code)
CHAPTER 7
ENFORCEMENT; LIABILITY
SECTION:
11-7-1: Building Permit; When Not Issued
11-7-2: Legal Proceedings; Abatement
11-7-3: Remedies Cumulative
11-7-4: Liability
11-7-1: BUILDING PERMIT; WHEN NOT ISSUED:
No building permit shall be issued for the erection or use of any structure or
part thereof to be located in a subdivision, that is not in accordance with the
provisions of this title. Any such permit issued shall be void and of no
effect. (2006 Code)
11-7-2: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS; ABATEMENT:
Any building or structure erected or maintained on a lot or parcel of land that
is subject to this title, that is contrary to the provisions of this title
shall be and same is hereby declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance, and
the town attorney shall, upon order of the town council, immediately commence
action or proceedings for the abatement, removal and enjoinment thereof, in the
manner provided by law; and shall take such other steps, and shall apply to
such court as may have jurisdiction to grant such relief as will abate or
remove such building or structure. (2006 Code)
11-7-3: REMEDIES CUMULATIVE:
All remedies provided for herein shall be cumulative and not exclusive. The
conviction and punishment of any person hereunder shall not relieve such person
from the responsibility of correcting prohibited conditions or removing
prohibited buildings, structures or improvements, nor prevent the enforced
correction or removal thereof. (2006 Code)
11-7-4: LIABILITY:
No liability shall be created on the part of the town, its agents, contractors,
volunteers, officers, members, officials appointed, elected or otherwise,
employees or any district, office, department or employee thereof for any
damages that may result from the application of these regulations or any
administrative decision thereunder. (2006 Code)
TITLE 12
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Purpose
12-1-2: Definitions
12-1-3: Uses Requiring Plan
12-1-4: Plan Submittal
12-1-5: Considerations For Approval
12-1-6: Buffering And Screening
12-1-7: Approval Of Plan
12-1-8: Reconsideration
12-1-9: Failure To Comply
12-1-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of Star Valley by establishing uniform requirements and standards
for industrial uses within the town. (2006 Code)
12-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires:
DEVELOPER OR INDUSTRIAL USER: Any corporation, business, company, partnership,
sole proprietorship or any other entity or individual which establishes or
maintains any of the industrial uses or related uses listed under section
12-1-3 of this chapter.
TOWN ENGINEER: The town engineer of the town of Star Valley or his designee.
USE: Any of the industrial uses or related uses listed under section
12-1-3 of this chapter. (2006 Code)
12-1-3: USES REQUIRING PLAN:
   A.   Filing: The town engineer shall require the filing of a site plan if
such a plan has not previously been submitted by the developer. If a site plan
has been previously filed, the town engineer may require the developer to
submit an updated site plan.
   B.   Uses Specified: A site plan, as described hereafter in section
12-1-4 of this chapter, shall be required for any of the following uses or any
related uses:
      1.   Ball bearing manufacturing.
      2.   Boxes or cabinets, manufacturing.
      3.   Chocolate and cocoa products manufacturing.
      4.   Feed (grains) manufacturing and processing.
      5.   Flour and grain mills, storage and elevators.
      6.   Fuel distributing station, gasoline (bulk plant).
      7.   Ice manufacturing and storage.
      8.   Paint and varnish manufacturing.
      9.   Septic tank, cesspool service or cleaning equipment yard.
      10.   Wood products, manufacturing, bulk.
      11.   Meat packing and smoking; slaughtering prohibited except for
rabbits and poultry.
      12.   Petroleum products, packaging and storage, including butane
distributors, subject to the provisions of the uniform fire code.
      13.   Automobile parts, supplies, salvage or wrecking.
      14.   Cement and paving materials mixing plant.
      15.   Manufacture, fabrication or assembly, including contractor's
facilities, of building materials and construction equipment; acoustical
materials, air conditioners, heating and ventilating equipment, bolts, cement
and concrete products, ceramics, decorative metals and wrought iron, doors,
drills, fences, fire escapes, hardware and machine and road building equipment,
plaster, plastics, plumbing supplies and sewer pipes, pumps, scaffolds,
screens, screws, tile, welding equipment, windows; or other similar items.
      16.   Exterminator and insect poison, manufacturing.
      17.   Foundry for casting lightweight, nonferrous metal, not causing
noxious odors or fumes.
      18.   Gasoline and petroleum bulk storage tanks.
      19.   House movers, equipment, storage or wrecking yards.
      20.   Junk yards.
      21.   Metals crushing for salvage.
      22.   Millwork (woodworking, manufacturing).
      23.   Planing mills.
      24.   Plating works, bulk (galvanizing).
      25.   Manufacture of brick and all clay, cinder, concrete, synthetic,
cast stone, plastic and pumice stone products.
      26.   Rock crushing.
      27.   Sandblasting yard.
      28.   Seed treatment, processing, extraction of oil.
      29.   Steel fabrication (plate, structural, misc. iron, reinforcing).
      30.   Storage yards, bulk material.
      31.   Tanks, fabrication.
      32.   Retail commercial operations directly relating to the primary
industrial use may be permitted, provided they do not exceed twenty percent
(20%) of the gross floor area.
      33.   Extraction of sand, gravel, and other natural resources.
   C.   Changes Or Alterations In Use: If a use is changed or altered in any
significant manner, or the use is terminated or removed for a period of at
least six (6) months or the production of the use is substantially decreased
for at least six (6) months, then the town engineer may require the developer
to submit a site plan before starting or resuming operation or production.
(2006 Code)
12-1-4: PLAN SUBMITTAL:
   A.   Scale; Copies: Two (2) prints of a site development plan shall be
submitted to the town engineer for review. Site plans shall be drawn at a scale
approximate to show all required information on a sheet or sheets of twenty
four by thirty six inch (24 x 36") proportions. Ten (10) copies of all other
plans or support documents required by this chapter shall also be submitted.
   B.   Information Required: The site plan shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Location sketch with adjacent land uses.
      2.   Topography, contour lines for existing and proposed elevations at
one foot (1') intervals.
      3.   Natural drainage and proposed stream flow by directional arrows. If
applicable, show that finished flow level is above the 100-year flood area.
      4.   Legal description of the site to include total area of the site.
      5.   Location of all existing and proposed structures, including
distances from all structures to all lot lines.
      6.   Percentage of lot covered by impervious surfaces.
      7.   Percentage of the site covered by any and all structures.
      8.   Right of way dimensions of all abutting streets whether public or
private and access to the site.
      9.   Parking and circulation areas.
      10.   Locations, dimensions and description of all existing or proposed
easements.
      11.   Location for any nonvehicular access strips.
      12.   The future land use designation for the site.
      13.   Exterior lighting, if any; the type, height and areas of
illumination.
      14.   Service areas for uses such as mail delivery and trash disposal.
      15.   All existing and proposed utility locations.
      16.   The location of the nearest fire hydrant.
      17.   Streets or alley right of ways to be dedicated.
      18.   The height of all buildings.
   C.   Supporting Documents: The following documents shall be included with
the site plan:
      1.   Landscape Plan: For any project, the town engineer may require a
separate submittal of this plan drawn to scale, indicating the following
information:
         a.   Identify all walks or paths, vehicular drives, parking lots,
building entrances, freestanding light fixtures, service or loading areas,
signs and locations, open spaces, plazas and recreation amenities with general
construction materials noted.
         b.   All slopes within site are to be called out (i.e., 2:1, 3:1, 4:1,
etc.). If site is totally on slopes less than 50:1, state in a general note.
All depressed and mounted areas shall be identified with general contour lines
and/or proposed elevations. Note any area to be used for detention.
         c.   A legend shall be included which shows symbols on plan, quantity,
type of plant, minimum purchase size and any necessary comments such as ground
cover spacing or necessary guying and staking. The legend shall also reflect
square footage of each type of ground treatment (i.e., bluegrass, cobble,
alternative grass mix, bark chips).
Note: Plants should be shown at mature size on plans.
      2.   Parking Plan: A parking plan, drawn to scale, shall be submitted.
The town engineer may require a separate submittal for this plan based on the
scale of the project. The plan shall show all those elements necessary to
indicate that the requirements are being fulfilled and shall include, but not
be limited to:
         a.   Delineation of all parking spaces;
         b.   Circulation necessary to serve spaces;
         c.   Access to streets, alleys and properties to be served;
         d.   Curb cuts;
         e.   Type of landscaping, fencing or other screening materials;
         f.   Abutting land uses;
         g.   Grading, drainage, surfacing and subgrading details;
         h.   Location of lighting fixtures;
         i.   Delineations of all structures and obstacles to circulation on
the site; and
         j.   Specifications of signs and bumper guards.
      3.   Building Drawings: Drawings of all proposed buildings shall be
submitted to the town engineer. Drawings shall comply with the provisions of
the latest building code adopted by the town.
      4.   Soil Engineering Report: If required by the town engineer, a soil
engineering report prepared by a registered engineer shall be submitted. The
report shall include data regarding the nature, distribution and strength of
existing soils; conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures and
design criteria for corrective measures when necessary; and opinions and
recommendations covering adequacy of the site to be developed by the proposed
grading. The soil engineering report will include suggestions concerning
erosion control on the project site during construction as well as upon
completion.
      5.   Site Hydrology Report: If required by the town engineer, a site
hydrology report shall be prepared and shall include the following:
         a.   A map and calculations showing the drainage area and estimated
runoff of the area being served by any drainage facility within the proposed
grading and drainage plan;
         b.   Indication of the undeveloped peak discharged of surface water
currently entering and leaving the subject property due to the 10-year design
storm, adjusted to the subject drainage basin;
         c.   Indication of developed peak discharge of runoff which will be
generated due to the design storm within the subject property;
         d.   Determination of the developed peak discharge of water that will
be generated by the design storm at various sub-basins on the subject property;
and
         e.   A discussion of the drainage management facilities and/or
techniques which may be necessary to rectify drainage problems.
      6.   Traffic Control Devices And Street Lighting:
         a.   Whenever, as the result of additional traffic generated by a
proposed development, the town determines the need for a traffic signal or
regulatory sign, the developer shall be responsible for installing all said
devices and signs.
         b.   For all public streets adjacent to the site, the developer shall
be responsible to provide any additional street lights required to ensure an
acceptable level of lighting.
      7.   Proof Of Ownership; Proof Of Agency:
         a.   The information required to establish proof of ownership shall
consist of a copy of a title report issued not more than thirty (30) days prior
to the date of submittal of the site plan to the town engineer. The report
shall be issued by a title company authorized to conduct business in the state.
         b.   If the land is owned by a corporation, proof of agency shall
consist of a corporate resolution designating an individual to act as agent.
The corporate resolution must be certified by the secretary of the corporation
and authenticated by the corporate seal or acknowledged in the form prescribed
by Arizona Revised Statutes, section 33-506.2.
         c.   If the land is owned by a partnership, proof of agency shall
consist of a written document from the partners designating an individual to
act as agent. The document must be certified and acknowledged in the form
prescribed by Arizona Revised Statutes, section 33-506.3.
         d.   If the land is owned by an individual, proof of agency shall
consist of a written document from the owner designating an individual to act
as agent. The document must be certified and acknowledged in the form
prescribed by Arizona Revised Statutes, section 33-506.1.
      8.   Development Schedule:
         a.   The developer shall submit a development schedule, indicating, to
the best of the developer's knowledge, the approximate date upon which
construction or development of the project will begin, progressive stages of
development, if any, anticipated rate of development and completion date.
         b.   For any development proposed to be constructed in phases, the
developer shall submit a master plan for the entire project which must be
approved before any submittal of the project can be approved or constructed.
(2006 Code)
12-1-5: CONSIDERATIONS FOR APPROVAL:
The town engineer shall consider the following matters and others, where
applicable, prior to approving the development plan:
   A.   Traffic Safety And Congestion:
      1.   The effect of the site development on traffic conditions on abutting
streets.
      2.   The layout of the site with respect to locations and dimensions of
vehicular and pedestrian entrances, exits, drives and walkways.
      3.   The arrangement and adequacy of off street parking facilities to
prevent traffic congestion.
      4.   The location, arrangement and dimensions of truck loading and
unloading facilities.
      5.   The circulation patterns within the boundaries of the development
including areas and circulation for refuse, fire and police services.
      6.   The surfacing and lighting of off street parking facilities.
      7.   The continuation of streets as prescribed in the traffic circulation
plan.
   B.   Outdoor Advertising: The number, location, color, size, height,
lighting and landscaping of outdoor advertising signs and structures in
relation to the creation of traffic hazards and the appearance and harmony with
adjacent development.
   C.   Buildings And Site Layout:
      1.   The general silhouette and mass, including location on the site,
elevations and relation to natural plant coverage all in relationship to the
neighborhood.
      2.   The exterior design in relation to adjoining structures in height,
bulk and area openings, breaks in the facade facing on the street, line and
pitch of roof and arrangement of structure on the parcel.
      3.   The adequate usable outdoor living space for each dwelling unit
occupying or to occupy the site.
   D.   Drainage: The effect of the development on the adequacy of the storm
and surface water drainage, both on the site and in the affected area.
   E.   Water And Sewer Capacities: The ability of the town to supply water and
sewer service to the site should be investigated.
   F.   Permitted Accessory Uses:
      1.   Any use customarily incidental to a permitted principal use, such
as:
         a.   Private garage or carport for storage of vehicles.
         b.   Garden house, tool house, ramada, swimming pool.
      2.   Accessory dwelling units inherent to maintaining business.
      3.   Where the keeping of horses and other livestock is lawful,
structures customarily accessory to such use.
   G.   Property Development Standards:
      1.   Minimum area: Five (5) acres.
      2.   Building height: No building shall exceed thirty five feet (35') in
height.
      3.   Required yards:
         a.   Front yard: Forty feet (40').
         b.   Side yard: Forty feet (40').
         c.   Back yard: Forty feet (40').
      4.   Minimum distance between main buildings: As prescribed by the
uniform building code. (2003 international building code).
   H.   Nonresidential Accessory Building:
      1.   Maximum height: Fifteen feet (15') above grade.
      2.   Maximum yard coverage: Thirty five percent (35%) of the required
side or rear yard.
      3.   Location restriction: No accessory building shall be erected in any
minimum required front yard.
      4.   Setback requirements: Accessory buildings shall be set back from the
side lot line and the rear lot line a distance not less than five feet (5'),
except:
         a.   For a lot having its rear lot line continuous with an alley line,
no rear setback shall be required for the accessory buildings; or
         b.   For a corner lot abutting a key lot and not separated therefrom
by an alley, an accessory building shall be set back from the rear lot line a
distance of not less than the width of the least required side yard applicable
to the main building; or
         c.   For a corner lot, the street side setback shall be the same as
for the main building. (2006 Code)
12-1-6: BUFFERING AND SCREENING:
   A.   General Provisions: To reduce the impacts on adjacent uses which are of
a different type, buffers and screening will be required. The property owner is
responsible for the establishment and maintenance of screening in accordance
with the requirements of this section unless the abutting use has already
provided said buffering in compliance with the standards of this section.
   B.   Requirements:
      1.   A buffer consists of a horizontal distance from the main buildings
of proposed use to the property line.
      2.   Within the buffer areas, screening is required and may consist of
any of the following:
         a.   At least one row of deciduous or evergreen trees or a mixture of
each and spaced not more than fifteen feet (15') apart, and at least one row of
evergreen shrubs spaced not more than five feet (5') apart which will grow to
form a continuous hedge at least five feet (5') in height within one year of
planting; lawn, low-growing evergreen shrubs, evergreen ground cover or
vegetable of rock mulch covering the balance of the property.
         b.   In lieu of these stands, and at his option, the owner may prepare
a detailed plan and specifications for landscaping and screening, including
plantings, fences, walls, walks and other features designed to afford the
decree of desired buffering. Such plan and specifications shall be submitted to
the town engineer for review and approval.
      3.   The buffer distance shall be forty feet (40') from property line.
      4.   An adequate buffering plan shall be considered as mitigating the
five (5) acre requirement of subsection
12-1-5G1 of this chapter. (2006 Code)
12-1-7: APPROVAL OF PLAN:
After the developer has submitted a site plan and necessary support documents,
the town council shall approve or reject the site plan. (2006 Code)
12-1-8: RECONSIDERATION:
If the town council rejects a proposed site plan, the town council shall give
written notice to the developer, specifying the reasons for the rejection. The
developer shall have thirty (30) days in which to make a written request that
the town council reconsider its decision. The town council shall then have
thirty (30) days to issue its decision. After reconsideration, the decision of
the town council shall be a final decision. (2006 Code)
12-1-9: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
Any developer who fails to comply with all of the applicable requirements of
this chapter may be punished as provided in this code. The minimum fine for
each day of noncompliance shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00). (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Purpose
12-2-2: Applicability
12-2-3: Administration And Enforcement
12-2-4: Vibration Standards
12-2-5: Air Quality
12-2-6: Odors
12-2-7: Water Quality
12-2-8: Toxic And Hazardous Materials
12-2-9: Explosives
12-2-10: Flammable And Combustible Liquids
12-2-11: Liquids And Solid Waste
12-2-12: Glare Or Heat
12-2-13: Radioactive Materials Prohibited; Exceptions
12-2-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter establishes standards applicable to the continuous operation and
conduct of land uses after their establishment. These standards are established
to protect residents from the adverse effects of excessive or objectionable
emissions of noise or air contaminants that may be generated by individual land
uses, activities, processes or equipment. The purpose of this chapter is also
to identify acceptable levels of noise and other emissions in various land use
categories. (2006 Code)
12-2-2: APPLICABILITY:
After the effective date of this chapter:
   A.   Established Use Or Building: Any use established or changed to, and any
building, structure or land developed, constructed or used for any permitted
principal use, or any use permissible as a special exception, or any accessory
use, shall comply with all of the performance standards herein set forth.
   B.   Existing Use Or Building: If any existing use or building or other
structure is extended, enlarged, reconstructed or re-established, the
performance standards set forth herein shall apply with respect to such
extended, enlarged, reconstructed or re-established portion or portions of such
use, building, machinery or other structure.
   C.   Annexed Areas: Within one year after annexation, all uses of lands,
buildings or other structures within the annexed area should comply with the
performance standards. (2006 Code)
12-2-3: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Emissions Where Flash Point Known: If the town engineer finds, after
making determinations in the manner set forth in this section, that there is a
violation of performance standards relating to emission of smoke, fire and
explosive hazards where flash point of flammable materials is known, humidity,
heat, glare or electromagnetic interference, he shall take, or cause to be
taken, lawful action to cause correction to within the limits set by such
performance standards. Failure to obey lawful orders concerning such correction
shall be punishable as provided in this code. The minimum fine to be imposed
against the industrial user shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each day
of noncompliance.
   B.   Emissions Where Flash Point Not Known: If, in the judgment of the town
engineer, there is a probable violation of the performance standards as set
forth in this chapter concerning emission of particulate matter, vibration,
noise, fire, explosive hazards where flash point of flammable materials is not
known, toxic or noxious matter, odorous matter, or radiation hazards, the
following procedures shall be followed in the case where there is not a threat
to life or health:
      1.   The town engineer shall give written notice by registered or
certified mail to the person(s) responsible for the alleged violations. The
notice shall contain the following:
         a.   Details and particulars of alleged violations.
         b.   The official's justification regarding why occurrence is a
violation.
         c.   A time limit for either correction of alleged violation or other
such response.
      2.   The notice shall further state that upon request of those to whom it
is directed, technical determinations as described in this title will be made
and that if violations, as alleged, are found, costs of such determinations
shall be charged against those responsible for the violation, in addition to
such other penalties as may be appropriate, but if it is determined that no
violation exists, the cost of the determination will be paid by the town.
      3.   If there is no reply within the time limit set, but the alleged
violation is corrected to the satisfaction of the town engineer, he shall note
"violation corrected" on his copy of the notice, and shall retain it among his
official records, taking such other action as may be warranted.
      4.   If there is no reply within the time limit set and the alleged
violation is not corrected to the satisfaction of the town engineer within the
time limit set, he shall proceed to take or cause to be taken such action as is
warranted by continuation of a violation after notice to cease.
      5.   If reply is received within the time limit set indicating that the
alleged violation will be corrected to the satisfaction of the town engineer,
but requesting additional time, the town engineer may grant an extension, if he
deems it warranted in the circumstances of the case and if the extension will
not, in his opinion, cause peril to life, health or property.
      6.   If reply is received within the time limit set requesting technical
determination as provided in this title and if the alleged violations continue,
the town engineer may call in properly qualified experts to make the
determinations. If expert findings indicate violation of the performance
standards, the costs of the determinations shall be assessed against the
properties or persons responsible for the violation, in addition to such other
penalties as may be appropriate under the terms of this code. If no violation
is found, the costs of determination shall be paid by the town without
assessment against the properties or persons involved. (2006 Code)
12-2-4: VIBRATION STANDARDS:
   A.   Maximum Velocity: Ground vibration measured at the boundary of an
industry shall not exceed 0.01 inches per second (0.0025 meters per second) RMS
velocity.
   B.   Method Of Measurement: Vibration measurement procedures shall conform
to the methods described in this section or to procedures approved by the
Arizona department of environmental quality.
      1.   Instrumentation shall be capable of measuring RMS value of the
vibration velocity over the frequency range of ten (10) to one thousand (1,000)
Hz.
      2.   Measurement values shall be recorded for a sufficient period of
observation to provide a representative sample.
      3.   Attachment of the vibration transducer to the ground shall be by
magnetic screw attachment to a steel bar of a minimum of nine inches (9") (22.9
cm) in length, driven flush with the ground surface.
   C.   Exemptions: The rules of this section shall not apply to:
      1.   Vibration resulting from the operation of any equipment or facility
of a surface carrier engaged in interstate commerce by railroad.
      2.   Vibration resulting from the operation of any road vehicle.
      3.   Vibration resulting from roadway maintenance and repair equipment.
(2006 Code)
12-2-5: AIR QUALITY:
Any land use shall be operated so that air quality conforms with all applicable
state or federal regulations. In addition:
   A.   Smoke: No emission of smoke from any source shall be permitted to
exceed a greater density than the density described in no. 1 on the Ringleman
chart. However, smoke may be emitted, which is equal to, but not darker, than
no. 2 on the Ringleman chart, for not more than four (4) minutes in any eight
(8) hour period. For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringleman
chart, as published by the U.S. bureau of mines, shall be the standard. All
measurements shall be taken at the point of emissions of the smoke.
   B.   Fly Ash, Dust, Fumes, Vapors, Gases And Other Forms Of Air Pollution:
No emission shall be permitted which can cause damage to health, animals or
vegetation, or other forms of property, or which can cause any excessive
soiling. (2006 Code)
12-2-6: ODORS:
Any land use shall not emit noxious odors which are perceptible at the property
line. (2006 Code)
12-2-7: WATER QUALITY:
Any land use shall be operated so that water quality affected by the use shall
be in conformance with all applicable state or federal regulations. (2006 Code)
12-2-8: TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
The storage and use of poisonous, corrosive, explosive and other materials
hazardous to life or property shall conform to all applicable portions of the
current editions of the uniform building code and the uniform fire code. These
standards are in addition to all applicable state and federal regulations.
(2006 Code)
12-2-9: EXPLOSIVES:
The storage and use of explosives shall conform to all applicable portions of
the current editions of the town's adopted fire and building code. These
standards are in addition to all applicable state and federal regulations.
(2006 Code)
12-2-10: FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS:
The storage and use of flammable and combustible liquids shall conform to all
applicable portions of the current editions of the town's adopted fire and
building code. These standards are in addition to all applicable state and
federal regulations. (2006 Code)
12-2-11: LIQUIDS AND SOLID WASTE:
No waste shall be discharged into the streets, drainage ways or any property
which is dangerous to the public health and safety. No waste shall be
discharged in the public sewer system which endangers the normal operation of
the public sewage system.
   A.   Pretreatment: If the town engineer permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the town and subject
to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   B.   Industrial Waste Into Public Sewers; Admission, Control:
      1.   This subsection shall apply to industrial waste as previously
defined, and further to waste from industries which exhibit strengths or
characteristics of BOD in excess of or equal to two hundred (200) milligrams
per liter (mg/l) or suspended solids in excess of or equal to one hundred fifty
(150) (mg/l) based on a composite sample of the waste.
      2.   Review and acceptance by the town shall be obtained prior to the
discharge into the public sewers of any waste having a BOD greater than two
hundred (200) milligrams per liter or a suspended solids content greater than
one hundred fifty (150) milligrams per liter.
      3.   Where required, in the opinion of the town engineer, to modify or
eliminate waste that are harmful to the structures, processes or operation of
the sewage treatment works, the person shall provide at his expense such
preliminary treatment or processing facilities as may be determined necessary
to render his waste acceptable for admission to the public sewers.
      4.   Any industry discharging waste from canning, freezing or food
packing operation shall provide pretreatment which shall include, but not
limited to, vibrating or rotary screens to remove any particulate larger than
#40 screen.
      5.   The volume of flow used for computing industrial waste charges shall
be the metered water consumption of the person as shown in the records of meter
readings. If the person discharging industrial waste into the public sewers
procures any part, or all, of his water from sources other than the town, all
of a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person shall
install and maintain, at his expense, water meters of a type approved by the
town engineer for the purposes of determining the volume of water obtained from
these other sources.
      6.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
installed, owned and operated by the person following approval of the town
engineer.
      7.   Industrial waste discharged into public sewers shall be subject to
periodic inspection and a determination of character and concentration of said
waste. The determinations shall be made as often as may be deemed necessary by
the town engineer. The samples collected shall be representative and collected
either manually or by the use of mechanical equipment acceptable to the town
engineer. Access to the sampling locations shall be granted to the town
engineer or his duly authorized representatives at all times. All required
tests shall be ran by the industrial user or his duly authorized
representatives, and copies of the test results provided to the town engineer.
      8.   If, in the opinion of the town engineer, tests taken of industrial
waste show the character or concentration of these waste to be in excess of
those limits acceptable in the treatment facilities or, if indications that
waste discharged from a new industrial applicant's process may exceed the
allowable limits established by the Arizona department of health services and
the United States environmental protection agency, the town shall have the
authority to request negotiations with representatives of the industry
concerned to arrive at any special agreements concerning pretreatment and/or
payment of any surcharge or additional service charges necessary for additional
town facilities.
   C.   Service Charges: The amount of any surcharge or additional service
charge shall reflect the cost incurred by the town in removing the excess BOD
and suspended solids or other waste characteristics should an industrial user
exceed the acceptable limits as set by the town. (2006 Code)
12-2-12: GLARE OR HEAT:
Any activity producing intense glare or heat shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building in such a manner as not to create a nuisance or
hazard beyond the lot lines. (2006 Code)
12-2-13: RADIOACTIVE MATERIALS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS:
Any other provisions of this title notwithstanding, manufacturing activities
involving the use, storage or disposal of radioactive material are expressly
prohibited. The foregoing is not intended to prohibit manufacturing activities
involving the use, storage or disposal of radioactive material, which
radioactive material does not become an integral part of the manufactured
product or is exempt from the licensing requirements of or permitted under a
general license issued by the Arizona atomic energy commission or its legally
established successor. Nor is the foregoing intended to prohibit the use of
radioactive material in medical diagnosis and therapy, or in medical,
educational or industrial research and development. For the purposes of this
section, "research and development" means either: a) theoretical analysis,
exploration or experimentation; or b) the extension of investigative findings
and theories of a scientific or technical nature into practical application for
experimental and demonstration purposes, including experimental production and
testing of models, devices, equipment, materials and processes. (2006 Code)
TITLE 13
FLOOD CONTROL
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE AND METHODS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Statutory Authorization
13-1-2: Findings Of Fact
13-1-3: Statement Of Purpose
13-1-4: Methods Of Reducing Flood Losses
13-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Arizona has in Arizona Revised Statutes,
section 48-3609 enabled the town to adopt regulations in conformance with
Arizona Revised Statutes, section 48-3604, designed to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. (2006 Code)
13-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   Adverse Affects: The flood hazard areas may result in loss of life and
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   Loss And Damage: These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect
of obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights
and velocities, and when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas.
Uses that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from
flood damage also contribute to the flood loss. (2006 Code)
13-1-3: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
   A.   To protect human life and health;
   B.   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   C.   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and server lines, streets and bridges
located in areas of special flood hazard;
   F.   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   G.   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard;
   H.   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions; and
   I.   To maintain eligibility for state disaster relief. (2006 Code)
13-1-4: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this title includes methods and provisions
for:
   A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
13-2-1: Establishment Of Development Permit
13-2-2: Floodplain Administrator; Duties And Responsibilities
13-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
A development permit shall be obtained before construction or development
begins within any area of special flood hazard established in section
13-4-2 of this title. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the floodplain administrator and may include, but not be
limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location
of the foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
   A.   Lowest Floor: Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the
lowest floor (including basement) of all structures; in zone AO, elevation of
existing highest adjacent natural grade and proposed elevation of lowest floor
of all structures;
   B.   Structure Floodproofed: Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea
level to which any structure will be floodproofed;
   C.   Certificate Of Floodproofing Methods: Certification by a registered
professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing methods for any
nonresidential structure meet the floodproofing criteria in subsection
13-5-1C3 of this title; and
   D.   Destruction Of Altered Or Relocated Watercourse: Description of the
extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
proposed development. (2006 Code)
13-2-2: FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
Duties of the floodplain administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
   A.   Review Permits: Review all development permits to determine that:
      1.   The permit requirements of this title have been satisfied;
      2.   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      3.   The site is reasonably safe from flooding;
      4.   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined but a
floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this title, "adversely
affects" means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will increase the
water surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot (1') at any point.
   B.   Use Of Other Base Flood Data: When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with section
13-4-2 of this title, the floodplain administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal,
state or other source, in order to administer
chapter 5 of this title. Any such information shall be consistent with the
requirements of the federal emergency management agency and the director of
water resources and shall be submitted to the floodplain board for adoption.
   C.   Information For Flood Insurance Policies: Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed for flood insurance policies:
      1.   The certified elevation required in subsection
13-5-1C1 of this title;
      2.   The certification required in subsection
13-5-1C2 of this title;
      3.   The floodproofing certification required in subsection
13-5-1C3 of this title; and
      4.   Certified elevation required in subsection
13-5-4B of this title.
   D.   Alterations Or Relocations: Whenever a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated:
      1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Arizona department of water
resources prior to such alterations or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of such notification to the federal Insurance administration;
      2.   Require that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or relocated
portion of said watercourse is maintained.
   E.   Flood Control Protective Works: Within one hundred twenty (120) days
after completion of construction of any flood control protective works which
changes the rate of flow during the flood or the configuration of the
floodplain upstream or downstream from or adjacent to the project, the person
or agency responsible for installation of the project shall provide to the
governing bodies of all jurisdictions affected by the project a new delineation
of all floodplains affected by the project. The new delineation shall be done
according to the criteria adopted by the director of water resources.
   F.   Development Plans: Advise the flood control district of Gila County and
any adjunct jurisdiction having responsibility for floodplain management in
writing and provide a copy of development plan of all applications for
floodplain use permits or variances to develop land in a floodplain or floodway
within one mile of the corporate limits of the town. Also, advise the flood
control district of Gila County in writing and provide a copy of any
development plan of any major development proposed within a floodplain or
floodway which could affect floodplains, floodways or water courses within the
district's area of jurisdiction. Written notice and a copy of the plan of
development shall be sent to the district no later than three (3) working days
after having been received by the floodplain administrator.
   G.   Boundary Interpretation: Make interpretation where needed, as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for
example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundary
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as
provided in chapter 6 of this title.
   H.   Action On Violations: Take actions on violations of this title as
required in section
13-4-9 of this title. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
13-3-1: Terms Defined
13-3-1: TERMS DEFINED:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this title shall be
interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this title its most reasonable application.
ACCESSORY USE: A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal use
of the parcel of land on which it is located.
ALLUVIAL FAN FLOOD: Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition
and unpredictable flow paths.
APEX: A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path
of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan
flooding can occur.
APPEAL: A request for a review of the floodplain administrator's interpretation
of any provision of this title or a request for a variance.
AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO zone on the flood insurance rate map
(FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet (3'); a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate; and velocity flow may be evident.
AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
This area is designated as zone A, AO, AH and A1-30 on the FIRM and other areas
determined by the criteria adopted by the director of water resources.
BACKFILL: The placement of fill material within a specified depression, hole or
excavation pit below the surrounding adjacent ground level as a means of
improving floodwater conveyance or to restore the land to the natural contours
existing prior to excavation.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
BASEMENT: Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
BREAKAWAY WALL: A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building foundation system.
CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
CURVELINEAR LINE: The border on either a FHBM or FIRM that delineates the
special flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood related erosion hazard
areas and consists of a curved or contour line that follows the topography.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within
areas of special flood hazard.
ENCROACHMENT: The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
EROSION: The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This peril is
not per se covered under the program. See definition of Flood Related Erosion.
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE: Any form of loan, grant, guaranty, insurance, payment,
rebate, subsidy, disaster assistance loan or grant, or any other form of direct
or indirect federal assistance, other than general or special revenue sharing
or formula grants made to states.
FLOOD BOUNDARY FLOODWAY MAP: The official map on which the federal insurance
administration has delineated both the areas of flood hazard and the floodway.
FLOOD ELEVATION DETERMINATION: A determination by the administrator of the
water surface elevations of the base flood, that is, the flood level that has a
one percent (1%) or greater chance of occurrence in any given year.
FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY: An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood related erosion hazards.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): An official map of a community, issued by the
administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as zones A, M
and/or E.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): The official map on which the federal
insurance administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the federal insurance
administration that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, the flood boundary
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
FLOOD OR FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from: a) the overflow of floodwaters; b)
the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source;
and/or c) the collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other
body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents
of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an
unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in "flooding", as defined in this section.
FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds have
been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION: The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a
lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or
an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
FLOOD RELATED EROSION MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of
corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood related erosion damage,
including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood related
erosion control works and floodplain management regulations.
FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR: The town manager of Star Valley who is hereby
authorized by the floodplain board to administer the provisions of this title.
FLOODPLAIN BOARD: The town council of Star Valley at such times as they are
engaged in the enforcement of this title.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS: Zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations,
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as
floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
other applications of police power. The term describes such state or local
regulations in any combination thereof, which provides standards for the
purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by
water from any source (see definition of Flood Or Flooding).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas necessary in order to discharge the 100-year flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation.
FREEBOARD: A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for
purposes of floodplain management. Freeboard tends to compensate for the many
unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the height
calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as wave
action, bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
HARDSHIP: As related to chapter 6 of this title, means the exceptional hardship
that would result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The governing
body requires that the variance be exceptional, unusual, and peculiar to the
property involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not
exceptional. Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps,
personal preference, or the disapproval of one's neighbors likewise cannot, as
a rule, qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be
resolved through other means without granting a variance, even if the
alternative is more expensive, or requires the property owner to build
elsewhere or put the parcel to a different use than originally intended.
HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   A.   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the department of the interior) or preliminarily
determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the requirements for
individual listing on the National Register;
   B.   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historical significance of a registered historic
district or a district preliminarily determined by the secretary to qualify as
a registered historic district;
   C.   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states
with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the secretary
of the interior; or
   D.   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
      1.    By an approved state program as determined by the secretary of the
interior; or
      2.    irectly by the secretary of the interior in states without approved
programs.
LEVEE: A manmade structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees,
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure usable solely for parking
of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement area
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements of this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes the term manufactured home also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for sale or rent.
MARKET VALUE: This shall be determined by estimating the cost to replace the
structure in new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of
depreciation which has accrued since the structure was constructed. The cost of
replacement of the structure shall be based on a square foot cost factor
determined by reference to a building cost estimating guide recognized by the
building construction industry. The amount of depreciation shall be determined
by taking into account the age and physical deterioration of the structure and
functional obsolescence as approved by the floodplain administrator, but shall
not include economic or other forms of external obsolescence. Use of
replacement costs or accrued depreciation factors different from those
contained in recognized building cost estimating guides may be considered only
if such factors are prepared by an independent professional appraiser and
supported by a written explanation of the differences.
MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purpose of the national flood insurance program, the
national geodetic vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW): Describes a condition where there is a river, flow or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover, and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
mudslide (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the administrator only if the
mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) AREA MANAGEMENT: The operation of an overall program
of corrective and preventive measures for reducing mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, mudslide
control works and floodplain management regulations.
MUDSLIDE (i.e., MUDFLOW) PRONE AREA: An area with land surfaces and slopes of
unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
NEW CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, "new construction" means structures for which the "start of
construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
100-YEAR FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year (see definition of Base Flood).
PERSON: An individual or his agent, firm, partnership, association or
corporation, or agent of the aforementioned groups, or this state or its
agencies or political subdivisions.
PRINCIPALLY ABOVEGROUND: At least fifty one percent (51%) of the actual cash
value of the structure, less land value, is aboveground.
PROGRAM: The national flood insurance program authorized by 42 USC 4001-4128.
PROGRAM DEFICIENCY: A defect in a community's floodplain management regulations
or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation of those
floodplain management regulations or of the NFIP standards.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is:
   A.   Built on a single chassis;
   B.   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   C.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   D.   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION: An elevation one foot (1') above the base flood
elevation for a watercourse for which the base flood elevation has been
determined and shall be as determined by the criteria developed by the director
of water resources for all other watercourses.
REGULATORY FLOODWAY: The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
REMEDY A VIOLATION: To bring the structure or other development into compliance
with state or local floodplain management regulations, or, if this is not
possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may be
reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of the ordinance or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
RIVERINE: Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including tributaries),
stream, brook, etc.
60-YEAR SETBACK: A distance equal to sixty (60) times the average annual long
term recession rate at a site, measured from the reference feature.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: An area having special flood or flood related
erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99 or
AH.
START OF CONSTRUCTION: Includes substantial improvement and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
(180) days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure.
STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally aboveground, as well as a manufactured home.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the "start of construction"
of the improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred
"substantial damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term
does not, however, include either:
   A.   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
   B.   Any alteration of a "historic structure"; provided, that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
VARIANCE: A grant of relief from the requirements of this title which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this title.
VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this title is presumed to be in
violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the national geodetic
vertical datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
WATERCOURSE: A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
Watercourse includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
WATERCOURSE MASTER PLAN: A hydraulic plan for a watercourse that examines the
cumulative impacts of existing development and future encroachment in the
floodplain and future development in the watershed on potential flood damages,
and establishes technical criteria for subsequent development so as to minimize
potential flood damages for all flood events up to and including the 100-year
flood. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
13-4-1: Applicability
13-4-2: Basis For Establishing Areas Of Special Flood Hazard
13-4-3: Compliance
13-4-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
13-4-5: Interpretation
13-4-6: Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability
13-4-7: Statutory Exemptions
13-4-8: Abatement Of Violations
13-4-9: Unlawful Acts
13-4-1: APPLICABILITY:
This title shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
corporate limits of the town. (2006 Code)
13-4-2: BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD:
The board, within its area of jurisdiction shall delineate (or may by rule
require developers of land to delineate) for areas where development is ongoing
or imminent, and thereafter as development becomes imminent, floodplains
consistent with the criteria developed by the federal emergency management
agency and the director of water resources. (2006 Code)
13-4-3: COMPLIANCE:
All development of land, construction of residential, commercial or industrial
structures or future development within delineated floodplain areas is subject
to the terms of this title and other applicable regulations. (2006 Code)
13-4-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This title is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this title and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (2006 Code)
13-4-5: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, all provisions shall be:
   A.   Considered as minimum requirements;
   B.   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   C.   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state
statutes. (2006 Code)
13-4-6: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This title does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall
not create liability on the part of the town, any officer or employee thereof,
or the federal insurance administration, for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this title or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(2006 Code)
13-4-7: STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Specified: In accordance with Arizona Revised Statutes, section 48-
3609.H, unless expressly provided, this and any regulation adopted pursuant to
this title do not affect:
      1.   Existing Legal Uses: Existing legal uses of property or the right to
continuation of such legal use. However, if a nonconforming use of land or a
building or structure is discontinued for twelve (12) months or destroyed to
the extent of fifty percent (50%) of its value, as determined by a competent
appraiser, any further use shall comply with this title and regulations of the
district.
      2.   Reasonable Repair Or Alteration: Reasonable repair or alteration of
property for the purposes for which the property was legally used on August 3,
1984, or any regulations affecting such property takes effect, except that any
alteration, addition or repair to a nonconforming building or structure which
would result in increasing its flood damage potential by fifty percent (50%) or
more shall be either floodproofed or elevated to or above the regulatory flood
elevation.
      3.   Written Statutory Authorization: Reasonable repair of structures
constructed with the written authorization required by Arizona Revised
Statutes, section 48-3613.
      4.   Environmental Compatibility: Facilities constructed or installed
pursuant to a certificate of environmental compatibility issued pursuant to
title 40, chapter 2, article 6.2.
   B.   Written Authorization Not Required: In accordance with Arizona Revised
Statutes, section 48-3613, written authorization shall not be required, nor
shall the floodplain board prohibit:
      1.   The construction of bridges, culverts, dikes and other structures
necessary to the construction of public highways, roads and streets
intersecting or crossing a watercourse.
      2.   The construction of storage dams for watering livestock or wildlife,
structures on banks of a watercourse to prevent erosion of or damage to
adjoining land if the structure will not divert, retard or obstruct the natural
channel of the watercourse or dams for the conservation of floodwaters as
permitted by Arizona Revised Statutes, title 45, chapter 6.
      3.   Construction of tailing dams and waste disposal areas for use in
connection with mining and metallurgical operations. This subsection does not
exempt those sand and gravel operations which will divert, retard or obstruct
the flow of waters in any watercourse from complying with and acquiring
authorization from the board pursuant to regulations adopted by the board under
this title.
      4.   Other construction if it is determined by the board that written
authorization is unnecessary.
      5.   Any flood control district, county, city, town or other political
subdivision from exercising powers granted to it under this title.
      6.   The construction of streams, waterways, lakes and other auxiliary
facilities in conjunction with development of public parks and recreation
facilities by a public agency or political subdivision.
      7.   The construction and erection of poles, towers, foundations, support
structures, guy wires and other facilities related to power transmission as
constructed by any utility whether a public service corporation or a political
subdivision.
   C.   Plan Submission: Before any construction authorized by subsection B of
this section may begin, the responsible person must submit plans for the
construction to the board for review and comment.
   D.   Violation: In addition to other penalties or remedies otherwise
provided by law, this state, a political subdivision or a person who may be
damaged or has been damaged as a result of the unauthorized diversion,
retardation or obstruction of a watercourse has the right to commence, maintain
and prosecute any appropriate action or pursue any remedy to enjoin, abate or
otherwise prevent any person from violating or continuing to violate this
section or regulations adopted pursuant to this title. If a person is found to
be in violation of this section, the court shall require the violator to either
comply with this section if authorized by the board or remove the obstruction
and restore the watercourse to its original state. The court may also award
such monetary damages as are appropriate to the injured parties resulting from
the violation, including reasonable costs and attorney fees. (2006 Code)
13-4-8: ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS:
Within thirty (30) days of discovery of a violation of this title, the
floodplain administrator shall submit a report to the floodplain board, which
shall include all information available to the floodplain administrator which
is pertinent to said violation. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of this
report, the floodplain board shall either:
   A.   Take Necessary Action: Take any necessary action to effect the
abatement of such violation; or
   B.   Issue Variance: Issue a variance to this title in accordance with the
provisions of chapter 6 of this title; or
   C.   Order Additional Information: Order the owner of the property upon
which the violation exists to provide whatever additional information may be
required for their determination. Such information must be provided to the
floodplain administrator within thirty (30) days of such order, and he shall
submit an amended report to the floodplain board within twenty (20) days. At
their next regularly scheduled public meeting, the floodplain board shall
either order the abatement of said violation or they shall grant a variance in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Submit Declaration For Insurance Denial: Submit to the administrator of
federal insurance administration a declaration for denial of insurance, stating
that the property is in violation of a cited state or local law, regulation or
ordinance, pursuant to section 1316 of the national flood insurance act of
1968, as amended. (2006 Code)
13-4-9: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to divert, retard or obstruct the flow of
waters in any watercourse whenever it creates a hazard to life or property
without securing the written authorization of the floodplain board. Where the
watercourse is a delineated floodplain, it is unlawful to excavate or build any
structure affecting the flow of waters without securing written authorization
of the floodplain board.
   B.   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a class two misdemeanor. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
SECTION:
13-5-1: Standards Of Construction
13-5-2: Storage Of Materials And Equipment
13-5-3: Utilities
13-5-4: Subdivisions
13-5-5: Manufactured Homes
13-5-6: Standards For Recreational Vehicles
13-5-7: Floodways
13-5-1: STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION:
In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards are required:
   A.   Anchoring:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
      2.   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of
subsection
13-5-5B of this chapter.
   B.   Construction Materials And Methods:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      3.   All new construction, substantial improvement and other proposed new
development shall be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
      4.   Require within zones AH or AO that adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes guide floodwaters around and away from proposed or
existing structures.
   C.   Elevation And Floodproofing:
      1.   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the regulatory
flood elevation (i.e., 1 foot above base flood elevation). Nonresidential
structures may meet the standards in subsection C3 of this section. Upon the
completion of the structure the elevation of the lowest floor, including
basement, shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor
and provided to the floodplain administrator.
      2.   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure in
zone AO shall have the lowest floor, including basement, higher than the
adjacent grade at least one foot (1') higher than the depth number on the FIRM,
or at least two feet (2') if no depth number is specified. Nonresidential
structures may meet the standards in this subsection C. Upon completion of the
structure, a registered professional engineer shall certify to the floodplain
administrator that the elevation of the structure meets this standard.
      3.   Nonresidential construction shall either be elevated in conformance
with subsection C1 or C2 of this section, or together with attendant utility
and sanitary facilities:
         a.   Be floodproofed so that below the regulatory flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         b.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         c.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this subsection are satisfied. Such certification shall
be provided to the floodplain administrator.
      4.   Require, for all new construction and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures, that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor
that are usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage in
an area other than a basement and which are subject to flooding shall be
designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls
by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect to meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings on different sides of each enclosed
area that have a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of floodwaters.
      5.   Manufactured homes shall meet the above standards and also the
standards in section
13-5-5 of this chapter. (2006 Code)
13-5-2: STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Certain Restrictions: The storage or processing of materials that are
in time of flooding buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to
human, animal or plant life are prohibited.
   B.   Exception: Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods and if firmly anchored to prevent flotation
or if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning. (2006 Code)
13-5-3: UTILITIES:
   A.   Water And Sanitary Sewage: All new and replacement water supply and
sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration
of floodwaters into the system and discharge from systems into floodwaters.
   B.   Waste Disposal Systems:
      1.   On site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      2.   Waste disposal systems shall not be installed wholly or partially in
a floodway. (2006 Code)
13-5-4: SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.   Area Identified: All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify
the flood hazard area and the elevation of the base flood.
   B.   Final Plans: All final subdivision plans will provide the elevation of
proposed structure(s) and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the
final pad elevation shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or
surveyor and provided to the floodplain administrator.
   C.   Minimal Flood Damage: All subdivision proposals shall be consistent
with the need to minimize flood damage.
   D.   Utilities: All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
   E.   Drainage: All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce
exposure to flood hazards. (2006 Code)
13-5-5: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
All new and replacement manufactured homes, additions to manufactured homes and
recreational vehicles which are left on site for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days or are not licensed and ready for highway use shall:
   A.   Be elevated so that the bottom of the structural frame or the lowest
point of any attached appliances, whichever is lower, is at the regulatory
flood elevation; and
   B.   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not to be limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to
ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. (2006 Code)
13-5-6: STANDARDS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
All recreational vehicles placed on site shall comply with at least one of the
following:
   A.   Be on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days and
be fully licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready
for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the
site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no
permanently attached additions.
   B.   Meet permit requirements, and the elevation and anchoring requirements
for manufactured homes in section
13-5-5 of this chapter. (2006 Code)
13-5-7: FLOODWAYS:
Located within areas of special flood hazard established in section
13-4-2 of this title are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is
an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry
debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions
apply:
   A.   Prohibit Encroachments: Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new
construction, substantial improvements and other development unless
certification by a registered professional engineer or architect is provided
demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood
levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   B.   Compliance: All new construction and substantial improvements shall
comply with all other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this
chapter. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 6
VARIANCE PROCEDURE
SECTION:
13-6-1: Floodplain Appeal Board
13-6-2: Conditions For Variances
13-6-1: FLOODPLAIN APPEAL BOARD:
   A.   Specified: The floodplain board of the town shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this title.
   B.   Appeals: The floodplain board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the floodplain administrator in the enforcement or administration of this
title.
   C.   Considerations: In passing upon such applications, the floodplain board
shall consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards
specified in other sections of this title; and
      1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      2.   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      9.   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
      11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system, and streets and bridges.
   D.   Lot Size: Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less
in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures
constructed below the base flood level, providing items in subsection C of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
(1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   E.   Conditions: Upon consideration of the factors of subsections A through
D of this section and the purposes of this title, the floodplain board may
attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to
further the purposes of this title.
   F.   Records Maintenance: The floodplain administrator shall maintain the
records of all appeal actions and report any variances to the federal insurance
administration upon request. (2006 Code)
13-6-2: CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES:
   A.   Historic Structures: Variances may be issued for the reconstruction,
rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed in the National Register of
Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places upon a determination
that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum
necessary to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
   B.   Increased Levels: Variances shall not be issued within any designated
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
   C.   Minimum Variance: Variances shall only be issued upon a determination
that the variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to
afford relief.
   D.   Issuance: Variances shall only be issued upon:
      1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant;
      3.   Uses: A showing that the use cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. This includes
only facilities defined in section
13-2-1 of this title in the definition of "Functionally Dependent Use".
      4.   Heights, Threats, Safety: A determination that the granting of a
variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on
or victimization of, the public, or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
   E.   Notice To Applicant:
      1.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
         a.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage; and
         b.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property.
      2.   Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions as required in subsection
13-6-1F of this chapter. Such notice will also state that the land upon which
the variance is granted shall be ineligible for exchange of land pursuant to
any flood relocation and land exchange program. A copy of the notice shall be
recorded by the floodplain board in the office of the Gila County recorder and
shall be recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the
affected parcel of land. (2006 Code)
CHAPTER 7
NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM
SECTION:
13-7-1: Adoption
13-7-1: ADOPTION:
   A.   The town of Star Valley continues to delegate the responsibility of
floodplain management to the Gila County flood control district as provided for
in Arizona Revised Statutes 48-3610. The town's building official is appointed/
designated as the national flood insurance program floodplain administrator for
the town and is responsible for coordinating with the Gila County flood control
district and will serve as the community point of contact on national flood
insurance program issues for county, state and federal officials.
   B.   Those public records entitled "Flood Insurance Study (FIS) For Gila
County And Incorporated Areas" dated December 4, 2007, with accompanying flood
insurance rate maps (FIRMs) dated December 4, 2007, and all subsequent
amendments and/or revisions, three (3) copies of which shall be kept on file in
the office of the town clerk, are hereby adopted by reference, as the basis for
establishing the special flood hazard areas for floodplain management in the
town of Star Valley. The special flood hazard areas documented in the flood
insurance study and flood insurance rate maps are the minimum area of
applicability of the floodplain management regulations and may be supplemented
by studies for other areas as allowed in the regulations.
   C.   That public record designated as the "Floodplain Management Regulations
For Gila County", April 15, 2008, and all subsequent amendments and/or
revisions, three (3) copies of which shall be kept on file in the office of the
town clerk, is hereby adopted as the legal basis for implementing floodplain
management in this community. (Ord. O 10-01, 6-1-2010)
