THATCHER, ARIZONA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 195-2024, passed 4-15-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 168-2013
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF THATCHER, ARIZONA, ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING EMERGENCY.
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
   WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Arizona empower and
authorize the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
   WHEREAS, the Legislative Authority of the Political Subdivision has
authorized a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances
of the Political Subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication
of such ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety, and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF THE TOWN OF THATCHER:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the Political Subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Town of Thatcher.”
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 consist of the
following Titles:
   THATCHER, ARIZONA
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Council and Mayor
      31.   Town Officials
      32.   Town Organizations and Departments
      33.   Purchasing
      34.   Emergency Management
      35.   Taxation
      36.   Municipal Court
      37.   Town Policies
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Solid Waste
      51.   Wastewater
      52.   Electric Utility
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions; Administration
      71.   Traffic Regulations
      72.   Parking
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animals
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Business Licensing Regulations
      111.   Peddlers
      112.   Cable Communications
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   General Offenses
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   Building Codes
      151.   Flood Damage Prevention
      152.   Subdivisions
      153.   Zoning
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      I.   Franchises
      II.   Rezoning
      III.   Annexations
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
   References to Arizona Revised Statutes
   References to 1991 Code
   References to Ordinances
   INDEX
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing, or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the Political
Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
   PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Mayor and Council of the Town of Thatcher,
Arizona, this 12th day of March, 2013.
Bob Rivera /s/
Bob Rivera, Mayor
ATTEST:   APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Lona Duncan /s/       Matt Clifford /s/
Lona Duncan, Town Clerk               Matt Clifford, Town Attorney
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to chapters and sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time; calculation of time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.17   Conflicting provisions
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   The ordinances embraced in the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated “The Code of the Town of Thatcher, Arizona,” and
may be so cited. The code may also be cited as “The Thatcher Town Code” or
“this code.”
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The rules and the definitions set forth in this chapter shall be
observed in the construction of this code and the ordinances of the town unless
the construction would be inconsistent with either the manifest intent of the
Council or the context of this code or the ordinances of the town.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required,
the same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood
according to the common and approved usage of the language; but technical words
and phrases and others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate meaning
in the law shall be construed and understood according to the peculiar and
appropriate meaning.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOND. When a BOND is required, an undertaking in writing shall be
sufficient.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY or TOWN. The Town of Thatcher,
Graham County, Arizona, except as otherwise provided. The words IN THE TOWN or
WITHIN THE TOWN shall mean and include all territory over which the town has
jurisdiction for the exercise of its police powers or other regulatory powers
as authorized by statute.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL. The Council of the Town of Thatcher, Arizona.
      COUNTY. Graham County, Arizona.
      DAY. The period of time between any 12:00 midnight and the midnight
following.
      DAYTIME. The period of time between sunrise and sunset.
      DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION, OFFICE, OFFICER or EMPLOYEE. Whenever any
department, board, commission, office, officer or employee is referred to, it
shall mean a DEPARTMENT, BOARD, COMMISSION, OFFICE, OFFICER or EMPLOYEE of the
town unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire, Police and Public Service
Departments and legally authorized ambulances and emergency vehicles of the
state, county or any political subdivisions thereof, and vehicles of public
service corporations.
      EMERGENCY WORK. Any work performed to prevent or alleviate physical
trauma or property damage threatened or caused by an emergency, which has or
may result in a disruption of service, and which is necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of persons or property.
      IN THE TOWN or WITHIN THE TOWN. All territory over which the town now
has, or shall hereafter acquire, jurisdiction for the exercise of its police
powers or other regulatory powers.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words purporting to give a JOINT AUTHORITY to three
or more town officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the
authority to a majority of the officers or other persons unless it shall be
otherwise expressly declared in the law giving the authority.
      KEEPER, PROPRIETOR. Includes persons, firms, associations, corporations,
clubs and partnerships, whether acting by themselves or through an agent,
servant or employee.
      LAW. Applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the state,
the ordinances of the town and, when appropriate, any and all rules and
regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
      MAJORITY. When used in reference to the Town Council, means 51% of those
members in attendance; provided that a quorum of the Council is also present.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled device in, upon or by which any
person or property is or may be transported upon a public highway, excepting
aircraft and devices used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
      MUST. The act referred to is mandatory.
      NIGHTTIME. The period of time between sunset and sunrise.
      OATH. Includes an affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an
affirmation may be substituted for an oath and in these cases the words SWEAR
and SWORN shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, includes any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant by the entirety of the whole or a
part of the building or land.
      PERSON. Shall extend and be applied to firms, corporations or voluntary
associations, as well as to individuals, unless plainly inapplicable.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. The words PRECEDING and FOLLOWING mean next
before and next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any thoroughfare, park, open space or building not
privately owned or controlled.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      SHALL. The action referred to is mandatory.
      SHALL HAVE BEEN. Includes past and future cases.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street between the curbline and the adjacent
property line intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the signer cannot write,
the signer’s or subscriber’s name being written near the mark by a witness who
writes his or her own name near the signer’s or subscriber’s name; but a
signature or subscription by mark can be acknowledged or can serve as a
SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION to a sworn statement only when two witnesses so sign
their own names thereto.
      STATE. The State of Arizona.
      STREET. Includes all streets, highways, avenues, lanes, alleys, courts,
places, squares, curbs or other public ways in the town which have been or may
hereafter be dedicated and open to public use or other public property so
designated in any law of the state.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TENANT or OCCUPANT. When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person holding a written or an oral lease or who occupies the whole or part of
the building or land, either alone or with others.
      WEEK. A WEEK consists of seven consecutive days.
      WRITING. Any form of recorded message capable of comprehension by
ordinary visual means. Whenever any notice, report, statement or record is
required or authorized by this code, it shall be made in writing in the English
language unless expressly provided otherwise.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, except where otherwise provided.
(1991 Code, § 1-3-2)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions and construction of statutes generally, see A.R.S. §§ 1-211
through 1-215
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the town shall be by the following
rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   And/or. “Or” may be read “and,” and “and” may be read “or,” if the
context requires it.
   (B)   Acts by agents. When this code or an ordinance requires an act to be
done which may by law as well be done by an agent as by the principal, the
requirement shall be construed to include all acts when done by an authorized
agent.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.
      (1)   Words of the masculine gender include the feminine; words in the
singular number include the plural, and words in the plural number include the
singular.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the
future includes the present.
   (D)   General terms. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Council that the titles,
chapters, subchapters, sections, sentences, clauses and phrases of this code
shall be severable and, if any provision of this code is held unconstitutional
for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the unconstitutionality
shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of the code.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO CHAPTERS AND SECTIONS.
   (A)   All references to chapters or sections are to the chapters and
sections of this code unless otherwise specified.
   (B)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the town exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within the town for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME; CALCULATION OF TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this code or
in any order issued pursuant to any ordinance, when expressed in days, shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last; except that if the
last day is a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, it shall be excluded; and when the
time is expressed in hours, the whole of Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, from
12:00 midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code, except
as otherwise provided in §
10.14. However, all rights, duties and obligations created or imposed by the
repealed ordinances shall continue and exist in all respects as if this code
had not been adopted and enacted.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   The adoption and enactment of this code shall not be construed to repeal or,
in any way, to modify or affect:
   (A)   Any special ordinance or ordinances regarding franchises, annexations,
dedications or zoning;
   (B)   Any ordinance making an appropriation;
   (C)   Any ordinance affecting any bond issue or by which any bond issue may
have been authorized;
   (D)   The running of the statute of limitations in force at the time this
code becomes effective;
   (E)   The continued existence and operation of any department, agency,
commission or office heretofore legally established or held;
   (F)   Any bond of any public officer;
   (G)   Any taxes, fees, assessments or other charges incurred or imposed;
and/or
    (H)   Any ordinances authorizing, ratifying, confirming, approving or
accepting any compact or contract with any other municipality, the state or any
county or subdivision thereof, or with the United States or any agency or
instrumentality thereof.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision shall
be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the former
ordinance, clause or provision unless it shall be expressly so provided. The
repeal of an ordinance shall not affect any punishment or penalty incurred
before the repeal took effect nor any suit, prosecution or proceeding pending
at the time of the repeal for any offense committed under the ordinance
repealed.
§ 10.17 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Conflicting provisions—different chapters. If the provisions of
different chapters of this code conflict with or contravene each other, the
provisions of each chapter shall prevail as to all matters and questions
growing out of the subject matter of the chapter.
(1991 Code, § 1-4-3)
   (B)   Conflicting provisions—same chapter. If conflicting provisions are
found in different sections of the same chapter, the provisions of the section
which is last in numerical order shall prevail unless the construction is
inconsistent with the meaning of the chapter.
(1991 Code, § 1-4-4)
§ 10.18 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.19 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
      (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-
1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:
         (A.R.S. § 9-240)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see A.R.S. § 39-121
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the prior code of ordinances
of the city, the prior code section number shall be indicated in the history by
“(1991 Code, §       )” or “(1991 Code, Art. _____)”.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found responsible for violating any provisions of this
code, except as otherwise provided in this code, shall be responsible for a
civil code infraction, and upon the finding of responsibility therefor may be
punished by a civil sanction not to exceed $500. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein provided.
      (1)   In addition to any monetary civil sanction, the Civil Hearing
Officer shall order the defendant to abate the civil code infraction, unless it
has been abated by the date of a finding of responsibility therefor.
      (2)   The Civil Hearing Officer shall have the authority, within his or
her discretion, to suspend the payment of any civil sanction imposed.
      (3)   In any case involving a civil code infraction relating to the
occupancy or use of land, any monetary civil sanction imposed pursuant to this
section upon a defendant who holds an ownership interest in the land shall be
recordable as a lien upon the land and shall run with the land. The town, at
its sole option, may record a notice of civil sanction and abatement order with
the County Recorder and thereby cause compliance by any person(s) or entity
thereafter acquiring the property. When the property is brought into compliance
by the owner or responsible party, a satisfaction of notice of civil sanction
and abatement order shall be filed at the request and expense of the owner or
responsible party. It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to secure
the satisfaction of notice of civil sanction and abatement order from the town.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this code which
is classified as a Class 1 misdemeanor, upon conviction thereof, may be
punished by a fine not to exceed $2,500, by imprisonment for a period not to
exceed six months, by a term of probation not to exceed three years, or by any
combination of the fine, imprisonment and probation.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this code, any person found to
have violated any provision of this code or amendments thereto, which pursuant
to this section is classified as a civil code infraction, and who has been
twice previously found to have violated the provision within the preceding 24
months, shall, in addition to any penalty prescribed for the civil code
infraction, be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $2,500, by imprisonment for a period not to exceed six months, by
a term of probation not to exceed three years or by any combination of the
fine, imprisonment and probation.
(1991 Code, Art. 1-8B.)
Statutory reference:
   Maximum penalty for civil traffic violations, see A.R.S. § 28-1598
   Misdemeanor penalty authorized, see A.R.S. § 9-240(B)(28)(b)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL AND MAYOR
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS
      
32.   TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
33.   PURCHASING
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   TAXATION
      
36.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
37.   TOWN POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL AND MAYOR
Section
Council
   
30.001   Elected officers
   
30.002   Corporate powers
   
30.003   Duties of office
   
30.004   Vacancies in Council
   
30.005   Compensation
   
30.006   Oath of office
   
30.007   Bond
   
30.008   Financial disclosure statement
Mayor
   
30.020   Selection of Mayor
   
30.021   Vice Mayor
   
30.022   Acting Mayor
   
30.023   Powers and duties of the Mayor
   
30.024   Absence of Mayor
   
30.025   Vacancy in Office of Mayor
   
30.026   Failure to sign documents
Elections
   
30.040   Filing of nomination petitions; primary election
   
30.041   Non-political ballot
   
30.042   General election nomination
   
30.043   Election to office
   
30.044   Candidate financial disclosure
Council Procedure
   
30.060   Regular meetings
   
30.061   Special meetings
   
30.062   Meetings to be public
   
30.063   Quorum
   
30.064   Agenda
   
30.065   Order of business
   
30.066   Committees and commissions
   
30.067   Voting
   
30.068   Suspension of rules
Ordinances, Resolutions and Contracts
   
30.080   Prior approval
   
30.081   Introduction
   
30.082   Reading of proposed ordinance
   
30.083   Requirements for an ordinance
   
30.084   Effective date of ordinances
   
30.085   Signatures required
   
30.086   Publishing required
   
30.087   Posting required
COUNCIL
§ 30.001 ELECTED OFFICERS.
   (A)   The elected officers of the town shall be seven Councilmembers, one of
whom shall be designated as Mayor in accordance with §
30.020. The Mayor and Councilmembers shall constitute the Council and shall
continue in office until assumption of duties of office by their duly elected
successors.
   (B)   The regular term of office for Councilmembers shall be four years.
(1991 Code, § 2-1-1)
§ 30.002 CORPORATE POWERS.
   The corporate powers of the town shall be vested in the Council and shall be
exercised only as directed or authorized by law. All powers of the Council
shall be exercised by ordinance, resolution, order or motion.
(1991 Code, § 2-1-2)
§ 30.003 DUTIES OF OFFICE.
   The Councilmembers shall assume the duties of office at the regularly
scheduled Council meeting next following the date of the general election at
which, or effective as of the date of which, the Councilmembers were elected.
(1991 Code, § 2-1-3)
§ 30.004 VACANCIES IN COUNCIL.
   The Council shall fill by appointment for the unexpired term any vacancy
that may occur for whatever reason.
(1991 Code, § 2-1-4)
§ 30.005 COMPENSATION.
   The compensation of elective officers of the town shall be fixed from time
to time by ordinance or resolution of the Council; provided that the
compensation of any officer may not be increased or decreased except in
conformance with the provisions of the State Constitution, Article IV, Part 2,
§ 17.
(1991 Code, § 2-1-5)
§ 30.006 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Immediately prior to assumption of the duties of office, each Councilmember
shall, in public, take and subscribe to the oath of office.
(1991 Code, § 2-1-6)
§ 30.007 BOND.
   Prior to taking office, each Councilmember shall execute and file an
official bond, enforceable against the principal and his or her sureties,
conditioned on the due and faithful performance of his or her official duties,
payable to the state and to and for the use and benefit of the town or any
person who may be injured or aggrieved by the wrongful act or default of the
officer in his or her official capacity. A person so injured or aggrieved may
bring suit on the bond under provisions identical to those contained in A.R.S.
§ 38-260. Bonds shall be in a sum as shall be determined by the Council, and
the premium for the bonds shall be paid by the town.
(1991 Code, § 2-1-7)
§ 30.008 FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   Each Councilmember shall file, on or before January 31 of each year, a
financial disclosure statement in a form and with the information as provided
by resolution of the Council and pursuant to state law.
(1991 Code, § 2-1-8)
MAYOR
§ 30.020 SELECTION OF MAYOR.
   Within 20 days after election of the Council or at the first regular meeting
after election, whichever occurs first, the Councilmembers shall choose a Mayor
from among their number.
(1991 Code, § 2-2-1)
§ 30.021 VICE MAYOR.
   At the same meeting at which the Mayor is selected, the Council shall
designate one of its members as Vice Mayor, who shall serve at the pleasure of
the Council. The Vice Mayor shall perform the duties of the Mayor during his or
her absence or disability.
(1991 Code, § 2-2-2)
§ 30.022 ACTING MAYOR.
   In the absence or disability of both the Mayor and Vice Mayor, the Council
may designate another of its members to serve as acting Mayor who shall have
all the powers, duties and responsibilities of the Mayor during the absence or
disability.
(1991 Code, § 2-2-3)
§ 30.023 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   The powers and duties of the Mayor shall include the following:
   (A)   He or she shall be the chief executive officer of the town;
   (B)   He or she shall be the chairperson of the Council and preside over its
meetings;
   (C)   He or she shall enforce the provisions of this code;
   (D)   He or she shall execute and authenticate by his or her signature those
instruments as the Council or any statutes, ordinances or this code shall
require;
   (E)   He or she shall make any recommendations and suggestions to the
Council as he or she may consider proper;
   (F)   He or she may, by proclamation, declare a local emergency to exist due
to fire, conflagration, flood, earthquake, explosion, war, bombing or any other
natural or human-made calamity or disaster, or in the event of the threat or
occurrence of riot, rout or affray or other acts of civil disobedience which
endanger life or property within the town. After declaration of the emergency,
the Mayor shall govern by proclamation and impose all necessary regulations to
preserve the peace and order of the town, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Imposition of a curfew in all or any portion of the town;
      (2)   Ordering the closing of any business;
      (3)   Closing to public access any public building, street or other
public place; and
      (4)   Calling upon regular or auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the political subdivision for assistance.
   (G)   He or she is authorized and empowered to sign his or her name
officially for and in behalf of the town on all contracts, documents and papers
to which the town is a party, and to require that the conditions in any
instrument are faithfully performed; and
   (H)   He or she shall perform those other duties required by state statute
and this code as well as those duties required as chief executive officer of
the town.
(1991 Code, § 2-2-4)
§ 30.024 ABSENCE OF MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall not absent himself or herself from the town for a greater
period than 15 consecutive days without the consent of the Council.
(1991 Code, § 2-2-5)
§ 30.025 VACANCY IN OFFICE OF MAYOR.
   In case of death, disability or resignation of the Mayor, the Council shall
elect a Mayor, by a majority vote, to fill the vacancy for the remainder of the
vacant term.
(1991 Code, § 2-2-6)
§ 30.026 FAILURE TO SIGN DOCUMENTS.
   If the Mayor is absent or refuses or fails to sign any ordinance,
resolution, contract, warrant, demand or other document or instrument requiring
his or her signature for five days consecutively, then a majority of the
members of the Council may, at any regular or special meeting, authorize the
Vice Mayor or, in his or her absence, a duly appointed acting Mayor to sign the
ordinance, resolution, contract, warrant, demand or other document or
instrument which, when so signed, shall have the same force and effect as if
signed by the Mayor.
(1991 Code, § 2-2-7)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.040 FILING OF NOMINATION PETITIONS; PRIMARY ELECTION.
   (A)   A person desiring to become a candidate and to have his or her name
printed on the official ballot for municipal office shall file a nomination
paper and other nomination materials not less than 75 days nor more than 105
days before the primary election date. All these nomination papers must be
completed and filed with the Town Clerk by 5:00 p.m. on the last day for filing
the papers.
   (B)   Any candidate who shall receive at the primary election a majority of
all the votes cast shall be declared to be elected to the office for which he
or she is a candidate effective as of the date of the general election, and no
further election shall be held as to that candidate; provided that if more
candidates receive a majority than there are offices to be filled, then those
equal in number to the offices to be filled receiving the highest number of
votes shall be declared elected.
(1991 Code, § 2-3-1) (Ord. 35, passed 1-19-1976; Ord. 93-1995, passed 11-20-
1995)
§ 30.041 NON-POLITICAL BALLOT.
   Nothing on the ballot in any election shall be indicative of the source of
the candidacy or of the support of the candidate.
(1991 Code, § 2-3-2) (Ord. 35, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 30.042 GENERAL ELECTION NOMINATION.
   (A)   If at any primary election there is any office for which no candidate
is elected, then as to that office, the election shall be considered to be a
primary election for nomination of candidates for that office, and the second
or general municipal election shall be held to vote for candidates to fill the
office.
   (B)   Candidates to be placed on the ballot at a second or general municipal
election shall be those not elected at the first election; shall be equal in
number to twice the number to be elected to any given office or less than that
number if there is less than that number named on the primary election ballot;
and persons who receive the highest number of votes for the respective offices
at the first election shall be the only candidates at the second election.
   (C)   If there is any person who, under the provisions of this subchapter,
would have been entitled to become a candidate for any office except for the
fact that some other candidate received an equal number of votes therefor, then
all the persons receiving an equal number of votes shall likewise become
candidates for that office.
(1991 Code, § 2-3-3) (Ord. 35, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 30.043 ELECTION TO OFFICE.
   The candidates equal in number to the persons to be elected who receive the
highest number of votes shall be declared elected.
(1991 Code, § 2-3-4) (Ord. 35, passed 1-19-1976)
§ 30.044 CANDIDATE FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
   Each candidate for the Office of Councilmember shall file a financial
disclosure statement when the candidate files a nomination paper. The statement
shall contain any information as required by resolution.
(1991 Code, § 2-3-5) (Ord. 35, passed 1-19-1976)
COUNCIL PROCEDURE
§ 30.060 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Council shall hold regular meetings on the second Tuesday of each
month at 6:00 p.m., provided that when the day fixed for any regular meeting of
the Council falls upon a day designated by law as a legal holiday, the meeting
shall be held at the same hour on the next succeeding day not a holiday on a
day and time designated by the Council.
   (B)   All regular meetings of the Council shall be held in the Town Hall or
any other place as the Council may designate.
(1991 Code, § 2-4-1) (Ord. 95-1996, passed 7-15-1996)
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 1, passed October 25, 1918, contained an earlier version of the
material covered in this subchapter, but which was updated in the prior
codification except for §
30.063.
§ 30.061 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor, or the Clerk upon the approval of four members of the Council,
may convene the Council at any time by notifying the members of the date, hour,
place and purpose of the special meeting. Notice of this meeting shall be made
pursuant to state law.
(1991 Code, § 2-4-2)
Editor’s note:
   A note in the prior codification read thus: Ordinance 1 allows only the
Mayor to call special meetings and does not include the reference to the open
meeting law.
§ 30.062 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All proceedings of the Council shall be open to the public, except that,
upon approval by a majority vote of the Council, the Council may meet in a
closed executive session in the manner provided by state law.
(1991 Code, § 2-4-3)
§ 30.063 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Council shall constitute a quorum for transacting
business. If less than a quorum is present, no business shall be transacted.
(1991 Code, § 2-4-4) (Ord. 1, passed 10-25-1918)
§ 30.064 AGENDA.
   Prior to each Council meeting, or on or before a time fixed by the Council
for preparation and distribution of an agenda, whichever is earlier, the
Manager shall collect all written reports, communications, ordinances,
resolutions, contracts and other documents to be submitted to the Council,
prepare an agenda according to the order of business and furnish each
Councilmember, the Mayor and the Attorney with a copy.
(1991 Code, § 2-4-5)
§ 30.065 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The business of the Council shall be taken up for consideration and
disposition in the following order.
   (A)   Call to order. The Mayor shall take the chair at the hour appointed
for the meeting and shall call the Council to order. In the absence of the
Mayor, the Vice Mayor shall call the Council to order. In the absence of both
the Mayor and Vice Mayor, the Clerk shall call the Council to order, and an
acting Mayor shall be selected to chair the meeting. Upon the arrival of the
Mayor or the Vice Mayor, the Vice Mayor or the acting Mayor shall immediately
relinquish the chair upon the conclusion of the business immediately before the
Council. The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum and decide all questions of
order.
   (B)   Pledge of allegiance. Immediately following the call to order, the
Council shall recite the pledge of allegiance.
   (C)   Roll call. Before proceeding with the business of the Council, the
Clerk or his or her deputy shall call the roll of the members, and the names of
those members present shall be entered in the minutes. If a quorum is not
present, the members present may adjourn pursuant to §
30.063.
   (D)   Consent agenda. When any item of business requires action by the
Council, but is of a routine and noncontroversial nature, the item may be
presented as part of a consent agenda.
      (1)   There shall be no debate or discussion by any member of the Council
regarding any item on the consent agenda, beyond asking questions for simple
clarification.
      (2)   Upon objection by any member of the Council to inclusion of any
item on the consent agenda, that item shall be removed from the consent agenda
forthwith. The objections may be recorded at any time prior to the taking of a
vote on the motion to approve the consent agenda. All these items shall be
considered individually, in the order in which they were objected to,
immediately following consideration of the consent agenda.
      (3)   Approval of the motion to approve the consent agenda shall be fully
equivalent to approval, adoption or enactment of each motion, resolution,
ordinance or other item of business thereon, exactly as if each had been acted
upon individually.
   (E)   Minutes. The Clerk or his or her deputy shall read or present the
minutes of the preceding Council meeting, which shall be approved if correct.
Any errors noted shall be corrected.
   (F)   Committee reports and demands. Any reports of committees or demands
against the town shall be presented. The demands shall be approved or
disapproved by the Council.
   (G)   Call to the public. Petitions, remonstrances, communications and
comment or suggestions from citizens present shall be heard by the Council. All
these remarks shall be addressed to the Council as a whole, and not to any
member thereof. The remarks shall be limited to five minutes, unless additional
time is granted by the Council. No person other than the individual speaking
shall enter into the discussion without the permission of the presiding
officer. No question shall be asked a Councilmember except through the
presiding officer. Members of the Council may not discuss, consider or make
decisions on matters other than to direct staff to investigate and respond to
the petition or request the matter be scheduled for consideration at a future
meeting.
   (H)   Unfinished business. The Council shall consider any business that has
been previously considered and which is still unfinished.
   (I)   New business. The Council shall consider any business not heretofore
considered, including the introduction of ordinances and resolutions.
   (J)   Adjournment. The Council may, by a majority vote of those present,
adjourn from time to time to a specific date and hour. A motion to adjourn
shall always be in order and decided without debate.
(1991 Code, § 2-4-6)
§ 30.066 COMMITTEES AND COMMISSIONS.
   The Council may create any boards, committees and commissions, standing or
special, as it deems necessary. They shall consist of as many members and shall
perform any duties as the Council may require and shall exist at the pleasure
of the Council.
(1991 Code, § 2-4-7)
§ 30.067 VOTING.
   (A)   The Mayor shall vote as a member of the Council.
   (B)   Upon the request of any member, the ayes and nays upon any question
shall be taken and entered in the minutes.
(1991 Code, § 2-4-8)
§ 30.068 SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   Any of the provisions of this subchapter may be temporarily suspended in
connection with any matter under consideration by a recorded vote of three-
fourths of the members present, except that this section shall not be construed
to permit any action that is contrary to state statutes.
(1991 Code, § 2-4-9)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND CONTRACTS
§ 30.080 PRIOR APPROVAL.
   All ordinances, resolutions and contract documents shall, before
presentation to the Council, have been reviewed as to form by the Attorney and
shall, when there are substantive matters of administration involved, be
referred to the person who is charged with the administration of the matters.
The person shall have an opportunity to present his or her objections, if any,
prior to the passage of the ordinance, resolution or acceptance of the
contract.
(1991 Code, § 2-5-1)
§ 30.081 INTRODUCTION.
   Ordinances, resolutions and other matters or subjects requiring action by
the Council shall be introduced and sponsored by a member of the Council,
except that the Attorney or the Manager may present ordinances, resolutions and
other matters or subjects to the Council, and any member of the Council may
assume sponsorship thereof by moving that the ordinance, resolution, matter or
subject be adopted; otherwise, they shall not be considered.
(1991 Code, § 2-5-2)
§ 30.082 READING OF PROPOSED ORDINANCE.
   Ordinances shall be read at least once, prior to adoption, but may be read
by title only if the Council, in possession of printed copies of the ordinance,
unanimously allows reading the title only.
(1991 Code, § 2-5-3)
§ 30.083 REQUIREMENTS FOR AN ORDINANCE.
   Each ordinance should have but one subject, the nature of which is clearly
expressed in the title. Whenever possible, each ordinance shall be introduced
as an amendment to this code or to an existing ordinance and, in that case, the
title of the sections to be amended shall be included in the ordinance.
(1991 Code, § 2-5-4)
§ 30.084 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   No ordinance, resolution or franchise shall become operative until 30
days after its passage by the Council and approval by the Mayor, except
measures necessary for the immediate preservation of the peace, health or
safety of the town; but such an emergency measure shall not become immediately
operative unless it states in a separate section the reason why it is necessary
that it should become immediately operative, and unless it is approved by the
affirmative vote of three-fourths of all the members elected to the Council,
taken by ayes and nays.
   (B)   In addition to the provisions of division (A) of this section, the
Clerk shall certify the minutes of any Council meeting at which an ordinance,
resolution or franchise, except an emergency measure, is passed. The 30-day
period specified in division (A) of this section shall be calculated from the
date of passage by the Council and approval by the Mayor.
(1991 Code, § 2-5-5)
§ 30.085 SIGNATURES REQUIRED.
   Every ordinance passed by the Council shall, before it becomes effective, be
signed by the Mayor and attested by the Clerk.
(1991 Code, § 2-5-6)
§ 30.086 PUBLISHING REQUIRED.
   Only those orders, ordinances, resolutions, motions, regulations or
proceedings of the Council shall be published as may be required by state
statutes or expressly ordered by the Council.
(1991 Code, § 2-5-7)
§ 30.087 POSTING REQUIRED.
   Every ordinance imposing any penalty, fine, forfeiture or other punishment
shall, after passage, be posted by the Clerk in three or more public places
within the town and an affidavit of the person who posted the ordinance shall
be filed in the office of the Clerk as proof of posting.
(1991 Code, § 2-5-8)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS
Section
Indemnification of Officers, Employees, Councilmembers and
Members of Committees, Commissions and Boards
   
31.01   Definitions
   
31.02   Persons to be indemnified
   
31.03   Action other than by or in the right of town
   
31.04   Criminal proceedings
   
31.05   No presumption created
   
31.06   Action by or in the right of town
   
31.07   Negligence and misconduct
   
31.08   Success on the merits
   
31.09   Determination by Council
   
31.10   Indemnification not exclusive remedy
Officers in General
   
31.25   Officers
   
31.26   Additional officers
   
31.27   Bond
   
31.28   Vacancies; holding more than one office
   
31.29   Additional powers and duties
Officers
   
31.40   Town Manager
   
31.41   Town Clerk
   
31.42   Police Chief
   
31.43   Town Engineer
   
31.44   Town Attorney
   
31.45   Town Magistrate
INDEMNIFICATION OF OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, COUNCILMEMBERS AND
MEMBERS OF COMMITTEES, COMMISSIONS AND BOARDS
§ 31.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Town officers, employees, the Mayor, Councilmembers and members of
committees, commissions and boards of the town.
   PROCEEDING. Any threatened, pending or contemplated action, suit or
proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administered or investigated.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-1)
§ 31.02 PERSONS TO BE INDEMNIFIED.
   Any person made a party or threatened to be made a party to any proceeding
by reason of the fact that the person is an officer, employee, Councilmember or
member of a board or commission of the town shall be indemnified as hereinafter
set forth.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-2)
§ 31.03 ACTION OTHER THAN BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF TOWN.
   If the proceeding is one other than an action by or in the right of the
town, the person shall be indemnified against his or her expenses, including
attorney’s fees, and including judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement
actually and reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with the
proceeding.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-3)
§ 31.04 CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS.
   If the proceeding is a criminal proceeding, the person shall be indemnified
if he or she had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was
unlawful.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-4)
§ 31.05 NO PRESUMPTION CREATED.
   With respect to indemnification under §
31.03 or §
31.04, a termination of the proceeding by judgment, order, settlement,
conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not by
itself create a presumption that the person acted, or failed to act, other than
in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in, or
not opposed to, the best interest of the town; and with respect to any criminal
proceeding, shall not by itself create a presumption that the person had
reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-5)
§ 31.06 ACTION BY OR IN THE RIGHT OF TOWN.
   If the proceeding is one by or in the right of the town to procure a
judgment in the town’s favor, the person shall be indemnified against his or
her expenses, including attorney’s fees, but excluding judgments and fines and,
except as hereinafter set forth, amounts paid in settlement, actually and
reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with the defense or settlement
of the proceeding if he or she acted, or failed to act, in good faith and in a
manner he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best
interests of the town.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-6)
§ 31.07 NEGLIGENCE AND MISCONDUCT.
   No indemnification under §
31.06 shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which the
person shall be adjudged to be liable for negligence or misconduct in the
performance of his or her duty to the town.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-7)
§ 31.08 SUCCESS ON THE MERITS.
    To the extent that a person covered by this subchapter has been successful
on the merits or otherwise in defense of any proceeding covered by this
subchapter or in the defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he or she
shall be indemnified against expenses, including attorney’s fees, actually and
reasonably incurred by him or her in connection therewith.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-8)
§ 31.09 DETERMINATION BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any indemnification made pursuant to this subchapter shall be made by
the town only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that
indemnification of the officer, employee or Councilmember is proper in the
circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set
forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   This determination shall be made by any of the following:
      (1)   By the Town Council by majority vote of a quorum consisting of
Councilmembers who were not party to the proceeding;
      (2)   If a quorum is not obtainable, then by a written opinion of
independent legal counsel acquired by majority of the disinterested
Councilmembers for that purpose; or
      (3)   If there are not disinterested Councilmembers, then by a
declaratory judgment action brought in the Superior Court, declaring the rights
of the officer, employee or Councilmember to be indemnified pursuant to this
subchapter.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-9)
§ 31.10 INDEMNIFICATION NOT EXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   The indemnification provided by this subchapter shall not be deemed
exclusive of any other rights to which those indemnified may be entitled. The
indemnification provided by this subchapter shall be supplemental to and excess
to any valid and collectible insurance coverage.
(1991 Code, § 2-6-10)
OFFICERS IN GENERAL
§ 31.25 OFFICERS.
   There are hereby created the Offices of Town Manager, Town Clerk, Town
Attorney, Chief of Police and Fire Chief who shall be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Council. The Police Chief, Town Clerk and Town Attorney are
supervised by the Town Manager. There is further hereby created the Office of
Town Engineer who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the
Manager. In addition, there is hereby created the Office of Town Magistrate who
shall be appointed by and may be removed by the Town Council in the manner
provided in §
36.15.
(1991 Code, § 3-1-1) (Ord. 164-2011, passed 5-10-2011)
§ 31.26 ADDITIONAL OFFICERS.
   The Council may appoint and remove from time to time any other officers as
may be deemed necessary and that are not provided for in this code or state
statute.
(1991 Code, § 3-1-2)
§ 31.27 BOND.
   The Council may require each officer of the town to give bond for the due
discharge of his or her duties in sums and with security as it may direct and
approve as determined by resolution. The town shall pay the costs of this bond.
(1991 Code, § 3-1-3)
§ 31.28 VACANCIES; HOLDING MORE THAN ONE OFFICE.
   Any vacancy that shall occur in any town office, except the Town Council,
shall be filled by appointment, provided that one person may hold more than one
office and that, at the discretion of the Council, the functions of a town
official may be validly performed and discharged by a deputy or another town
official, or an otherwise qualified employee of the town.
(1991 Code, § 3-1-4)
§ 31.29 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   In addition to any powers and duties prescribed in this code, each officer
shall have any further powers, perform further duties and hold any other office
as may be directed by the Town Manager or Town Council through ordinance,
resolution or order.
(1991 Code, § 3-1-5)
OFFICERS
§ 31.40 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Office created. The Office of the Town Manager is hereby created and
established. The Town Manager shall be appointed by the Council wholly on the
basis of administrative and executive ability and qualifications and shall hold
office for and at the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   Bond. The Town Manager shall furnish a corporate surety bond to be
approved by the Council in a sum as may be determined by the Council, and shall
be conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties imposed upon the
Manager as herein prescribed. Any premium for the bond shall be a proper charge
against the town.
   (C)   Compensation. The Manager shall receive compensation as the Council
shall fix from time to time.
   (D)   Removal procedure. The Manager may be removed from office by a
majority vote of the Council, with or without cause. If the removal is for
cause and if requested, the Council shall grant the individual a public hearing
within 30 days following notice of removal. If the removal is without cause, it
shall become operative 30 days from the date of the notice of removal. During
the interim, the Council may suspend the Manager from duty but shall continue
his or her salary for three months following the removal date; provided,
however, that the Manager shall have been in the service of the town for at
least one calendar year.
   (E)   Powers and duties. The Town Manager shall be the administrative head
of the town government under the direction and control of the Council, except
as otherwise provided in this chapter. The Manager shall be responsible to the
Council for the proper administration of all affairs of the town. In addition
to the Manager’s general powers as administrative head and not as a limitation
thereof, it shall be the duty of the Manager and he or she shall have the
powers set forth in the following divisions:
      (1)   Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the town, suspend or
remove all officers and employees of the town not appointed by the Council. He
or she may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint, suspend or
remove subordinates in the office or department;
      (2)   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the Council together
with a message describing the important features and be responsible for its
administration after adoption;
      (3)   Prepare and submit to the Council at the end of each fiscal year a
complete report on the finances and administrative activities of the town
during the preceding year;
      (4)   Keep the Council advised of the financial condition and future
needs of the town and make recommendations as he or she may deem desirable;
      (5)   Recommend to the Council a standard schedule of pay for each
position in the town service, including minimum and maximum rates, and
determine employee compensation according to that standard schedule of pay.
Authorize the payment of overtime pay for employees as may work in excess of a
normal work period. These rates of pay and periods of work shall be in
conformity with wages and salaries enacted by the Council;
      (6)   Recommend to the Council from time to time adoption of any measures
which he or she may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety or
welfare of the community or for the improvement of administrative services;
      (7)   Attend all meetings of the Council unless excused therefrom and
take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the Council. He or she
shall be entitled to notice of all regular and special meetings of the Council;
      (8)   See that all laws and ordinances are duly enforced;
      (9)   Investigate the affairs of the town and any department or division
thereof. Investigate all complaints in relation to matters concerning the
administration of the town government and in regard to service maintained by
the public utilities in the town, and see that all franchises, permits and
privileges granted by the town are faithfully observed; and
      (10)   Perform any other duties as may be required by the Council, not
inconsistent with state law or town ordinances.
   (F)   Council not to interfere with appointments or removals. With regard to
officers and employees appointed by the Manager, neither the Council nor any of
its members shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his or
her removal or suspension from that office by the Manager or any of his or her
subordinates, or in any manner take part in the appointment or removal of
officers and employees in the administrative services of the town. Except for
the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members shall deal with the
administrative service solely through the Manager.
(1991 Code, § 3-2-1)
§ 31.41 TOWN CLERK.
   (A)   Records. The Clerk shall keep a true and correct record of all
business transacted by the Council and any other records that either pertain to
the business of the town or that the Council directs. The Clerk shall number,
plainly label and file separately in a suitable cabinet all resolutions,
ordinances, notices, deeds, surveys, leases, paid and unpaid vouchers,
inventories, letters, orders and other documents of whatever nature.
   (B)   Public inspection of records. The Clerk shall keep convenient for
public inspection all public records and public documents under his or her
control, as provided by state statute.
   (C)   Monthly reports. The Clerk shall prepare and collect from town
officers and employees monthly reports prepared in a manner and to include any
information as may be directed by the Council.
   (D)   Minutes. The Clerk shall prepare or cause to be prepared all minutes
of Council proceedings and ensure their correctness and accuracy.
   (E)   Ordinances, resolutions, budgets and notices. The Clerk shall process,
record, file, publish and, if required by state statute, post all ordinances,
resolutions, budgets and notices that may be passed by the Council.
   (F)   Duties as Treasurer. The Clerk shall hold the Office of Town Treasurer
and receive and safely keep all monies that shall come to the town and pay out
the same when authorized by the Council. He or she shall keep a separate record
and account of each different fund provided by the Council, apportion the
monies received among the different funds as prescribed by the Council, and
keep a complete set of books showing: every money transaction of the town, the
state of each fund, from what source the money in each fund was derived and for
what purpose expended, and he or she shall make monthly reports to the Council
of all receipts and disbursements and the balance in each fund. At the end of
the fiscal year he or she shall make a full and detailed statement of the
receipts and expenditures of the town during the year, specifying the different
sources of revenue and the amount received from each, all appropriations made
by the Mayor and Council, and the object for which they were made, and the
amount of money expended under each, the evidences of indebtedness issued, and
what portion remains thereof outstanding, with the rate and amount of interest
due thereon, and the amount of cash on hand.
   (G)   Term expirations. The Clerk shall notify the appointing authority of
the impending expiration of the term of office of a member of any board or
commission at least 30 days before the expiration of the term.
   (H)   Election Official. The Clerk shall be the Town Election Official and
perform those duties required by state statute.
   (I)   Licenses. The Clerk shall issue or cause to be issued all licenses
that may be prescribed by state statute or this code.
   (J)   Claims. All claims against the town must be filed in writing with the
Clerk. Claims must present a full account of the items and must contain
verification under oath by the claimant to the effect that the claim is
correct, reasonable and just and that no part of the claim has been paid. The
Council must approve all claims before payment can be made.
   (K)   Damages. All claims for damages against the town must be filed with
the Town Clerk pursuant to A.R.S. § 12-821.
   (L)   Administrative duties. The Clerk shall perform those administrative
responsibilities and duties that are conferred upon him or her by the Council
in addition to those specified in this code.
(1991 Code, § 3-2-2)
§ 31.42 POLICE CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police shall perform duties as may be required of him or her by
§§
32.01 through
32.05 and the laws of this state.
(1991 Code, § 3-2-3)
§ 31.43 TOWN ENGINEER.
   The Engineer shall perform those duties as may be required of him or her by
law and any other duties as the Council or Manager may direct.
(1991 Code, § 3-2-4)
§ 31.44 TOWN ATTORNEY.
   The Attorney shall act as the legal counselor and advisor of the Council and
other officials and, as such, shall give his or her opinion in writing when
requested. He or she shall draft all deeds, contracts, conveyances, ordinances,
resolutions and other legal instruments when required by the Manager. He or she
shall approve as to form, in writing, all drafts of contracts and all official
or other bonds before final approval or acceptance thereof by the Council. He
or she shall return, within ten days, all ordinances and resolutions submitted
to him or her for consideration by the Manager, with his or her approval or
disapproval as to form noted thereon, together with his or her reasons
therefor. He or she, or a designee retained with the approval of the Manager,
shall prosecute and defend all suits, actions or causes where the town is a
party, and shall report to the Council, when required, the condition of any
suit or action to which the town is a party.
(1991 Code, § 3-2-5)
§ 31.45 TOWN MAGISTRATE.
   The Town Magistrate shall be the presiding officer of the Magistrate’s Court
and shall perform those functions necessary to the maintenance of the
Magistrate’s Court as provided by state statute.
(1991 Code, § 3-2-6)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN ORGANIZATIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Created; composition
   
32.02   Departmental rules and regulations
   
32.03   Duties of the Police Department
   
32.04   Answering calls outside the town
   
32.05   Reserve officers
Fire Department
   
32.20   Created
   
32.21   Officers
   
32.22   Duties of the Chief
   
32.23   Equipment
   
32.24   General provisions
   
32.25   Providing fire protection outside the town
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
32.40   Established
   
32.41   Membership
   
32.42   Officers
   
32.43   Duties of Commission
   
32.44   Rules; meetings
   
32.45   Quorum
   
32.46   Fee schedules
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Editor’s note:
   The provisions of Ordinance 21 for the Police and Fire Departments was
substantially updated in the prior codification.
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 CREATED; COMPOSITION.
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the town which shall consist
of a Chief of Police and as many police officers as may from time to time be
deemed necessary by the Council for the safety and good order of the town.
(1991 Code, § 4-1-1)
§ 32.02 DEPARTMENTAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe any departmental rules and
regulations as he or she shall deem advisable. The rules and regulations shall
be binding on members of the Police Department. The rules and regulations may
cover the conduct of the members, uniforms and equipment to be worn or carried
and all other similar matters necessary or desirable for the better efficiency
of the Department. The rules and regulations shall have final approval by the
Council.
(1991 Code, § 4-1-2)
§ 32.03 DUTIES OF THE POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It is the duty of the Police Department, under the direction of the Chief of
Police, to:
   (A)   Enforce this code and the statutes of the state within jurisdictional
limits as conferred by law and to arrest and charge the violators thereof;
   (B)   Deliver any persons who may be confined in the jail upon conviction of
a crime committed under the jurisdiction of the Magistrate’s Court to the
Police Chief or any officer of the town authorized by him or her who shall at
any time demand the prisoners. Any authorized person receiving the prisoners
shall work the prisoners on the streets or alleys of the town or on any and all
authorized work as may be determined by the Manager;
   (C)   Render an account of the Police Department, its duties and receipts as
may be required by the Council;
   (D)   Enforce the traffic regulations of the town as specified in Title VII
of this code and enforce the traffic laws of the state within the limits of the
town;
   (E)   Inspect and ascertain the condition of traffic-control devices of
every description which have been erected within the town on the authority of
the Council and to notify the Manager of any defects found therein; and
   (F)   To respond, if available for fire duty, to all fire alarms and assist
the Fire Department in the protection of life and property, in regulating
traffic, maintaining order and in enforcing the provisions of §§
32.20 through 32.26.
(1991 Code, § 4-1-3) (Ord. 21, passed 10-21-1957)
§ 32.04 ANSWERING CALLS OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   The members of the Police Department of the town are duly authorized to
answer calls for aid and assistance beyond the corporate limits of the town,
whenever the Police Chief, in his or her discretion, shall deem it necessary to
protect lives and property, and pursuant to mutual aid agreements and state
statutes.
(1991 Code, § 4-1-4) (Ord. 17, passed 12-15-1952)
§ 32.05 RESERVE OFFICERS.
   The town may establish a police reserve officer program. Members of the
police reserve shall serve the town subject to the rules and procedures
specified by the town.
(1991 Code, § 4-1-5)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.20 CREATED.
   There is hereby created a Volunteer Fire Department for the town for the
prevention of fire and the protection of life and property within the limits of
the town. The Department will be governed by the bylaws approved by the
Department. The bylaws are adopted by reference as if set out in full. A copy
of the bylaws can be found in the office of the Town Clerk.
(1991 Code, § 4-2-1) (Ord. 21, passed 10-21-1957)
§ 32.21 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Department shall consist of a Fire Chief, one Assistant Chief and
other officers as may be deemed necessary by the Fire Chief for the effective
operation of the Department.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be appointed by the members of the Department for
an indefinite period of time, and his or her tenure of office shall depend upon
his or her good conduct and efficiency. The Chief shall be technically
qualified by training and experience and shall have ability to command
firefighters and hold their respect and confidence. He or she shall be removed
only for just cause and after a public hearing before the Council.
   (C)   The Chief shall be held accountable to the Council only and shall make
written and verbal reports thereto as the Council may require. All other
Department and company officers shall be accountable to the Chief only. The
Fire Chief shall be the “authority having jurisdiction” for the town.
(1991 Code, § 4-2-2) (Ord. 21, passed 10-21-1957; Ord. 138-2005, passed 10-11-
2005) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.22 DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall formulate a set of rules and regulations to govern the
Department and shall be responsible to the Council for the personnel, morale
and general efficiency of the Department.
   (B)   The Chief shall determine the number and kind of companies of which
the Department is to be composed and shall determine the response of those
companies to alarms.
   (C)   The Chief shall at least once a month conduct suitable drills or
instruction in the operation and handling of equipment, first aid and rescue
work, salvage, a study of buildings in the town, fire prevention, water
supplies and all other matters generally considered essential to good
firemanship and safety of life and property from fire.
   (D)   The Chief is hereby required to assist the proper authorities in
suppressing the crime of arson by investigating or causing to be investigated
the cause, origin and circumstances of all fires.
   (E)   The Chief is hereby empowered to enter any and all buildings and
premises at any reasonable hour for the purpose of making inspections and to
serve written notice upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a specified
time, any and all fire hazards that may be found. Any person so served with a
notice to abate any fire hazard shall comply therewith and promptly notify the
Chief.
   (F)   The Chief shall see that complete records are kept of all fires,
inspections, apparatus and minor equipment, personnel and other information
about the work of the Department.
   (G)   The Chief shall report monthly to the Council the condition of the
apparatus and equipment; the number of fires during the month, their location
and cause, and date of same and loss occasioned thereby; the number and purpose
of all other runs made; the number of members responding to each fire or other
run; and any changes in membership.
   (H)   The Chief shall make a complete annual report to the Council within
one month after the close of the fiscal year. The report shall include the
information specified in division (F) of this section, together with
comparative data for previous years and recommendations for improving the
effectiveness of the Department.
(1991 Code, § 4-2-3) (Ord. 21, passed 10-21-1957)
§ 32.23 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Fire Department shall be equipped with apparatus and other
equipment as may be required from time to time to maintain its efficiency and
properly protect life and property from fire.
   (B)   Recommendations concerning apparatus and equipment needed shall be
made by the Fire Chief, and, after approval by the Council, the apparatus and
equipment shall be purchased in a manner as may be designated by the Council.
   (C)   All equipment of the Department shall be safely and conveniently
housed in places as may be designated by the Council. The places shall be
heated during the winter season.
   (D)   Suitable arrangements or equipment shall be provided for citizens to
turn in an alarm and for notifying all members of the Department so that they
may promptly respond.
   (E)   No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any private
purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority take away
or conceal any article used in any way by the Fire Department.
   (F)   No person shall enter any place where fire apparatus is housed or
handle any apparatus or equipment belonging to the Department unless
accompanied by or having special permission of an officer or authorized member
of the Fire Department.
   (G)   No fire apparatus shall be hired out or permitted to leave the fire
station, except in response to a call for aid at a fire within the corporate
limits of the town, or in response to a call for aid at a fire in an area
authorized for fire protection service or mutual aid under the provisions of §
32.26.
(1991 Code, § 4-2-5) (Ord. 21, passed 10-21-1957)
§ 32.24 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of state law, all motor equipment of
the Fire Department shall have right-of-way over all other traffic when
responding to an alarm.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire hose except upon
specific orders from the Fire Chief or other member of the Fire Department
where the hose is used.
   (C)   No unauthorized person shall park any vehicle or otherwise cause any
obstruction to be placed within 20 feet of the entrance to any fire station or
other place where fire apparatus is stored and on the side of a street opposite
the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of the entrance or within 15
feet of any fire hydrant.
   (D)   No unauthorized vehicle shall follow within 500 feet of any apparatus
belonging to the Fire Department or park within 300 feet of a fire.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person knowingly to turn in or cause to be
turned in a false alarm.
(1991 Code, § 4-2-6) (Ord. 21, passed 10-21-1957) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.25 PROVIDING FIRE PROTECTION OUTSIDE THE TOWN.
   (A)   The Council may enter into agreements or contracts to furnish fire
protection outside the town or enter into mutual aid agreements, and the Fire
Department is authorized to render firefighting service pursuant to the terms
of the agreements or contracts.
   (B)   Whenever the Fire Chief, or in his or her absence his or her
authorized representative, shall deem it necessary to protect lives or
property, the Fire Department is authorized to answer fire alarms and fight
fires outside the corporate limits of the town.
   (C)   (1)   No apparatus shall be hired out or permitted to leave the fire
station, except in response to a call for aid at a fire in a neighboring
community, without the consent of the Chief or in his or her absence the
Assistant Chief.
      (2)   The officer in charge of the Department shall have power to assign
equipment for response to calls for outside aid in accordance with division (A)
of this section, and in other cases only when the absence of that equipment
will not jeopardize protection in the town.
(1991 Code, § 4-2-7) (Ord. 21, passed 10-21-1957)
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 32.40 ESTABLISHED.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission of the town is hereby established.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-21-1969)
§ 32.41 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   All members shall be appointed for full three-year terms, except that,
in the event of death or resignation of a member, the vacancy may be filled for
the unexpired term. The term for all members shall extend until their
successors are qualified; provided, however, three successive unexcused or
unexplained absences for any regular or special meeting shall be grounds for
termination at the will and pleasure of the appointing authority without the
necessity of a hearing or notice and that action shall be final.
   (B)   All members shall serve without pay. However, members of the
Commission may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in connection with
their duties upon authorization or ratification by the Commission and approval
of the expenditures by the Town Council.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-21-1969)
§ 32.42 OFFICERS.
   The Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from among its
own members, who shall serve for one year and until their successors are
elected and qualified. The Chairperson shall preside at all meeting and
exercise all the usual rights, duties and prerogatives of the head of any
similar organization. The Chairperson shall have the power to administer oaths
and to take evidence. The Vice Chairperson shall perform the duties of the
Chairperson in the latter’s absence or disability. Vacancies created by any
cause shall be filled for the unexpired term by a new election.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-21-1969)
§ 32.43 DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   It shall be the duty of the Commission to formulate, create and administer
any lawful plan duly adopted by the governing body for the present and future
growth of the town pertaining to the use of land and buildings for any purpose,
together with all incidental activities usually associated therewith and
commonly known as “Planning and Zoning” to make or cause to be made a
continuous study of the best present and future use to which land and buildings
shall be put within the town and in cooperation with adjacent areas; to
recommend to the governing body revision in plans which, in the opinion of the
Commission, are for the best interest of the citizens of the town; to
promulgate rules of procedure and to supervise the enforcement of rules so
promulgated by the Commission and approval by the governing body.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-21-1969)
§ 32.44 RULES; MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall provide in its rules for its meetings; provided,
however, that special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or, in his or
her absence, the Vice Chairperson. In addition, any three members of the
Commission may make written request to the Chairperson for a special meeting
and in the event the meeting is not called, the members may call the special
meeting in a manner and form as may be provided in the Commission rules.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-21-1969)
§ 32.45 QUORUM.
   Four members shall constitute a quorum. The affirmative vote of four members
shall be required for passage of any matter before the Commission. In this
connection, the minutes of the meetings shall reflect the vote of each member
present. A member may abstain from voting only upon a declaration that he or
she has a conflict of interest, in which case that member shall take no part in
the deliberations on the matter in question.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-21-1969)
§ 32.46 FEE SCHEDULES.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall be authorized to establish a
uniform schedule of fees for services with all receipts to be paid into the
General Fund of the town. These fee schedules shall become effective upon
approval by the Town Council.
(Ord. 26, passed 4-21-1969)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
32.21 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as hereinabove described.
(Ord. 138-2005, passed 10-11-2005)
CHAPTER 33: PURCHASING
Section
   
33.01   In general
   
33.02   Exclusive service
   
33.03   Bidding
   
33.04   Determination of lowest responsible bidder
   
33.05   Performance bond
   
33.06   Emergency purchases
   
33.07   Forms
   
33.08   Professional services   
   
33.09   Cooperative purchasing
   
33.10   Purchases from Mayor or Councilmembers
§ 33.01 IN GENERAL.
   (A)   The Town Manager shall be the purchasing agent for the town. No
purchase or contract for services of any kind or description, payment for which
is to be made from funds of the town, shall be made by the purchasing agent, or
any officer, employee or agent of the town, except in the manner set forth in
this chapter, and unless the purchase is in accordance with the adopted town
budget.
   (B)   (1)   Under $1,000. Whenever any contemplated purchase or contract for
services is for the sum of less than $1,000, the purchasing agent may order the
item as needed without further formality.
      (2)   $1,000 to $4,999 inclusive. Whenever any contemplated purchase or
contract for services is for the sum of at least $1,000 but not more than
$4,999, the purchasing agent shall solicit at least three bids for the item or
service. The solicitation may be orally obtained by him or her, and he or she
may then award the purchase or contract of service to the lowest responsible
bidder.
      (3)   $5,000 to $14,999 inclusive. Whenever any contemplated purchase or
contract for services is for the sum of more than $5,000 but less than $14,999,
the purchasing agent shall solicit at least three written bids for the item or
service on bid forms and award the purchase or contract of services to the
lowest responsible bidder.
      (4)   $15,000 and over. Whenever any contemplated purchase or contract
for services, except for professional services as defined in §
33.08, is for the sum of $15,000 or more, the purchasing agent shall cause to
be published in two issues of a newspaper of general circulation, a notice
inviting bids, which notice shall be published at least five days prior to the
date set for the receipt of the bids. The notice herein required shall include
a general description of the articles to be purchased or services to be
performed and the time and place for opening bids. In addition, the purchasing
agent shall post a notice inviting bids in the Town Hall and may also mail to
responsible prospective suppliers a copy of the notice inserted in the
newspaper.
      (5)   No contract of $15,000 or more shall be let except by the Council.
Whenever any contemplated purchase or contract for services is for the sum of
$15,000 or more, the purchasing agent shall present the bids to the Council for
approval and advise the Council of the advantages or disadvantages of contract
and bid proposals.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-1) (Ord. 126-2004, passed 2-17-2004)
§ 33.02 EXCLUSIVE SERVICE.
   In the event that there is only one firm or company or individual capable of
providing particular service or commodity and the services or commodities
cannot be secured from other persons or companies, §
33.01 shall not be applicable, and the services or commodities can be secured
without bidding.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-2)
§ 33.03 BIDDING.
   The purchasing agent and all parties contracting with the town, except those
parties contracting for professional services as defined in §
33.08, shall follow the procedure set forth in this section in relation to all
bids required under §
33.01(B)(4).
   (A)   All notices and solicitation of bids shall state the time and place
for opening.
   (B)   All bids shall be submitted sealed to the purchasing agent and shall
be identified as bids on the envelope.
   (C)   All bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the
public notice.
   (D)   A tabulation of all bids received shall be posted in the Town Hall for
public inspection.
   (E)   The purchasing agent under §
33.01(B)(1), (2) and (3) and the Council under §
33.01(B)(4) shall have the authority to reject any and all bids and parts of
all bids and re-advertise or re-solicit bids.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-3)
§ 33.04 DETERMINATION OF LOWEST RESPONSIBLE BIDDER.
   (A)   Unless the Council or purchasing agent shall exercise the right of
rejection as provided by §
33.03 , the purchase or contract shall be made from and with the lowest
responsible bidder for the entire purchase or contract or for any part thereof.
   (B)   In determining the lowest responsible bidder, the Council and
purchasing agent shall consider:
      (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
      (2)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the services
promptly or within the specified time, without delay or interference;
      (3)   The quality of performance of previous contracts;
      (4)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances of the town;
      (5)   The financial resources and ability of the bidder to perform the
contract; and
      (6)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
services.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-4)
§ 33.05 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   The purchasing agent shall have the authority to require a performance bond,
in cash or otherwise, for an amount as he or she may deem sufficient to secure
the execution of the contract for the best interest of the town.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-5)
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   In case of an emergency which requires immediate purchases of supplies or
services and when time is of the essence, the Mayor shall be empowered to
authorize the purchasing agent to purchase or secure services without complying
with the procedures of this chapter. A full report in writing of the
circumstances of any emergency purchase shall be filed by the purchasing agent
with the Town Council at its next meeting.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-6)
§ 33.07 FORMS.
   The purchasing agent shall prescribe and maintain forms as he or she shall
find necessary for the operation of the provisions of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-7)
§ 33.08 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   Unless required by the Council, the provisions of this chapter shall not
apply to professional services. These services shall include but not be limited
to the following: physicians, attorneys, engineers and similar professions.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-8)
§ 33.09 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   This chapter shall not apply to purchases made by, through or with the state
or its political subdivisions. The town may make purchases or award contracts
for services without a formal bidding process whenever other governmental units
have done so for the same item or service if, in the opinion of the purchasing
agent, a separate bidding process is not likely to result in a lower price for
those items or services.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-9)
§ 33.10 PURCHASES FROM MAYOR OR COUNCILMEMBERS.
   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 38-503(C), the town, through its Council, may purchase
supplies, materials and equipment not to exceed an amount as the Council may
set by resolution from time, from the Mayor or any member of the Council
without using competitive public bidding procedures according to an annually
adopted town policy.
(1991 Code, § 3-4-10)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Purposes
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Civil preparedness organization
   
34.04   Powers and duties
   
34.05   Mutual aid
   
34.06   Immunity of town and representatives thereof
   
34.07   Enforcement of orders, rules and regulations
   
34.08   Violations
Emergency Operations Plan
   
34.25   Emergency Operations Plan adopted by reference   
Editor’s note:
   Editor’s note from the prior codification read thus: Ordinance 23, passed
August 17, 1959 created a civil defense organization. This is an updated
version of that ordinance.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Reduce vulnerability of people and the community to damage, injury and
loss of life and property resulting from natural or human-made catastrophes,
riots or hostile military or paramilitary action;
   (B)   Prepare for prompt and efficient rescue, care and treatment of persons
victimized or threatened by disaster;
   (C)   Provide a setting conducive to the rapid and orderly start of
restoration and rehabilitation of persons and property affected by disasters;
   (D)   Clarify and strengthen the roles of the Mayor, Council, Manager and
town agencies in prevention of, preparation for and response to and recovery
from disasters;
   (E)   Authorize and provide for cooperation in disaster prevention,
preparedness, response and recovery;
   (F)   Authorize and provide for coordination of activities relating to
disaster prevention, preparedness, response and recovery by agencies and
officers of this town, agencies of the private sector and similar activities in
which the federal government, the state and its political subdivisions may
participate; and
   (G)   Provide a disaster management system embodying all aspects of pre-
disaster preparedness and post-disaster response.
(1991 Code, § 3-5-1)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIVIL PREPAREDNESS. The organization, administration, trained manpower,
facilities, equipment, material, supplies, programs, emergency plans, ability
to execute emergency plans and all other measures necessary and incidental
thereto relating to disaster prevention preparedness response and recovery by
all governmental and private sector agencies to protect or save health, life or
property.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Civil Preparedness.
   DISASTER. The occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property or extreme peril to the safety of persons or
property, resulting from any natural or human-made causes, including but not
limited to fire, flood, earthquake, wind, storm, blight, drought, famine,
infestation, air contamination, epidemic, explosion, riot or other acts of
civil disobedience which endanger life or property, or hostile military or
paramilitary action.
   EMERGENCY. The existence of a disaster within the town limits requiring
immediate action by the emergency forces of the town.
   EMERGENCY FORCES. All town governmental and private sector agencies,
volunteers, facilities, equipment, trained manpower and other resources
required to perform civil preparedness functions.
   LOCAL EMERGENCY. The existence of a disaster within the town limits, and the
situation is or is likely to be beyond the capability and resources of the town
as determined by the Mayor and which requires the combined efforts of other
political subdivisions.
   REGULATIONS. The orders, rules and emergency procedures deemed essential for
civil preparedness.
   STATE OF EMERGENCY. The duly proclaimed existence of a disaster within the
state except a disaster resulting in a state of war emergency which is or is
likely to be beyond the capabilities and resources of any single county, city
or town and requires the combined efforts of the state and the political
subdivision.
   STATE OF WAR EMERGENCY. The situation which exists immediately whenever this
nation is attacked, or upon receipt by this state of a warning from the federal
government indicating that an attack is imminent.
(1991 Code, § 3-5-2)
§ 33.03 CIVIL PREPAREDNESS ORGANIZATION.
   The Town Manager is hereby authorized and directed to create a civil
preparedness organization. The Director of Civil Preparedness shall be
appointed by the Town Manager.
(1991 Code, § 3-5-3)
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Council.
      (1)   Shall have the power to make, amend and rescind regulations, not
inconsistent with regulations promulgated by the governor, necessary for civil
preparedness, which regulations shall have the full effect of this chapter when
a copy is filed in the office of the Clerk. Existing ordinances and
regulations, or ordinances and regulations issued under authority of A.R.S.
Title 26, Chapter 2, in conflict therewith, are suspended during the time and
to the extent that they are in conflict;
      (2)   May appropriate and expend funds, make contracts, obtain and
distribute equipment, materials and supplies for civil preparedness purposes;
      (3)   In the absence of specific authority in state emergency plans and
procedures, the Council shall take emergency measures as deemed necessary to
carry out the provisions of A.R.S. Title 26, Chapter 2; and
      (4)   In a state of war emergency the Council may waive procedures and
formalities required by law pertaining to the performance of public work,
entering into contracts, incurring obligations, employing permanent and
temporary workers, utilizing volunteer workers, renting equipment, purchasing
and distributing supplies, materials and facilities and appropriating and
expending public funds when the Council determines and declares that strict
compliance with these procedures and formalities may prevent, hinder or delay
mitigation of the effects of the state of war emergency. The town shall be
exempt during the emergency from budget limitations prescribed by Article 9,
Section 20 of the State Constitution.
   (B)   The Mayor.
      (1)   In addition to the powers granted by other provisions of the law or
town ordinance, the Mayor may, by proclamation, declare an emergency or a local
emergency to exist. The proclamation may be rescinded by a majority of the
Council after 24 hours.
      (2)   During an emergency or local emergency, the Mayor shall govern by
proclamation and shall have the authority to impose all necessary regulations
to preserve the peace and order of the town, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Imposition of curfews in all or in a portion of the town;
         (b)   Ordering the closing of any business;
         (c)   Closing to public access any public building, street or other
public place; and
         (d)   Calling upon regular or auxiliary law enforcement agencies and
organizations within or without the town for assistance.
   (C)   The Director.
      (1)   The Director is responsible in non-emergency periods to act on
behalf of the Mayor and Council to develop a readiness plan for the town’s
civil preparedness and for coordinated operations in disaster situations.
      (2)   During emergencies, the Director shall act as the principal advisor
or aide to the Mayor on emergency operations. His or her major responsibility
is to assure coordination among emergency forces and with higher and adjacent
governments, by assuring that the emergency operation center functions
effectively. He or she shall assist the Mayor in the execution of operations,
plans and procedures required by the emergency.
      (3)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive disaster basic plan,
which shall be adopted and maintained by resolution of the Council upon the
recommendations of the Director. In the preparation of this plan as it pertains
to town organization, it is the intent that the services, equipment, facilities
and personnel of all existing departments and agencies be used to the fullest
extent.
      (4)   The disaster plan shall be considered supplementary to this chapter
and have the effect of law whenever emergencies, as defined in this chapter,
have been proclaimed.
(1991 Code, § 3-5-4)
§ 34.05 MUTUAL AID.
   In periods of local emergency as declared pursuant to this chapter, the town
is hereby granted full power to provide mutual aid to any affected area in
accordance with local ordinances, resolutions, emergency plans or agreements
therefor. The town may request from state agencies mutual aid including
personnel, equipment and other available resources to assist the town during
the local emergency in accordance with emergency plans or at the direction of
the governor.
(1991 Code, § 3-5-5)
§ 34.06 IMMUNITY OF TOWN AND REPRESENTATIVES THEREOF.
   (A)   The town shall not be liable for any claim based upon the exercise or
performance of or the failure to exercise or perform a discretionary function
or duty on the part of the town or any employee of the town, except willful
misconduct, gross negligence or bad faith of any employee, in carrying out the
provisions of A.R.S. Title 26, Chapter 2.
   (B)   The immunities from liability, exemptions from laws, ordinances and
rules, all pensions, relief, disability worker’s compensation and other
benefits which apply to the activity of officers, agents or employees of the
town when performing their respective functions within the limits of the town
shall apply to them to the same degree and extent while engaged in the
performance of any of their functions and duties extraterritorially under the
provisions of this chapter, excepting willful misconduct, gross negligence or
bad faith.
   (C)   Volunteers duly enrolled or registered for services in a local
emergency, a state of emergency or a state of war emergency in carrying out,
complying with or attempting to comply with, any regulations issued pursuant to
A.R.S. Title 26, Chapter 2 or any local ordinance, or performing any of their
authorized functions or duties, or training for the performance of their
authorized functions or duties, shall have the same degree of responsibility
for their actions and enjoy immunities as officers and employees of the state
and its political subdivisions performing similar work.
(1991 Code, § 3-5-6)
§ 34.07 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Town Police Department shall enforce regulations issued pursuant to this
chapter.
(1991 Code, § 3-5-7)
§ 34.08 VIOLATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this chapter or to
refuse or willfully neglect to obey any lawful regulation or order issued as
provided in this chapter. This provision, however, does not apply to the
refusal of any private organization or members thereof to participate in an
emergency, local emergency or state of emergency as defined by this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 3-5-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN
§ 34.25 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Emergency Operations Plan of the town is adopted by reference and
incorporated as if set out in full. A copy of the plan can be found in the
office of the Town Clerk.
CHAPTER 35: TAXATION
Section
   
35.01   Adoption of Model Tax Code
   
35.02   Ad valorem taxes
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 ADOPTION OF MODEL TAX CODE.
   That certain document known as “The 2012-2014 Amendments to the Tax Code of
the Town of Thatcher”, three copies of which are on file in the office of the
Town Clerk, which document was made a public record by Resolution No. 689-2020,
is hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in
this section.
(1991 Code, Art. 9-1) (Ord. 57, passed 3-9-1987; Ord. 67, passed 5-21-1990;
Ord. 83-1993, passed 8-16-1993; Ord. 87-1995, passed 1-23-1995; Ord. 92-1995,
passed 6-19-1995; Ord. 94-1996, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 96-1996, passed 11-19-
1996; Ord. 105-1998, passed 5-19-1998; Ord. 115-1999, passed 10-19-1999; Ord.
120-2001, passed 11-20-2001; Ord. 123-2003, passed 4-15-2003; Ord. 129-2004,
passed 10-12-2004; Ord. 137-2005, passed 10-11-2005; Ord. 143-2006, passed 2-
14-2006; Ord. 147-2006, passed 11-14-2006; Ord. 148-2006, passed 12-19-2006;
Ord. 150-2007, passed 1-11-2007; Ord. 153-2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 155-
2009, passed 5-12-2009; Ord. 156-2009, passed 8-11-2009; Ord. 163-2011, passed
4-12-2011; Ord. 165-2011, passed 6-14-2011; Ord. 166-2011, passed 7-12-2011;
Ord. 186-2020, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 35.02 AD VALOREM TAXES.
   (A)   There is hereby levied on each $100 of the assessed value of property,
both real and personal, property as may not be lawfully exempt from taxation, a
primary property tax rate sufficient to raise a sum as determined by Council
from time to time for each fiscal year. If the sum exceeds the maximum levy
allowed by the law, the Board of Supervisors of the county is hereby authorized
to reduce the levy to the maximum amount allowed by law after providing notice
to the town.
   (B)   Failure by the county officials to properly return the delinquent
list, any irregularity in assessments or omissions in the same, or any
irregularity in any title conveyed by any tax fees; failure or neglect of any
officer or officers to timely perform any of the duties assigned to him or her
or pursuant thereto, the validity of the assessment or levy of taxes or of the
judgment of same by which the collection of the same may be enforced shall not
affect the lien of the town of overcharges as to part of taxes or the
foreclosure: and all acts of officers de facto shall be valid as if performed
by officers de jure.
(Ord. 135-2005, passed 5-10-2005)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of the code adopted
in §
35.01, as amended, shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a
violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as hereinabove
described.
(Ord. 57, passed 3-9-1987; Ord. 67, passed 5-21-1990; Ord. 83-1993, passed 8-
16-1993; Ord. 87-1995, passed 1-23-1995; Ord. 92-1995, passed 6-19-1995; Ord.
94-1996, passed 4-15-1996; Ord. 96-1996, passed 11-19-1996; Ord. 105-1998,
passed 5-19-1998; Ord. 115-1999, passed 10-19-1999; Ord. 120-2001, passed 11-
20-2001; Ord. 123-2003, passed 4-15-2003; Ord. 137-2005, passed 10-11-2005;
Ord. 143-2006, passed 2-14-2006; Ord. 148-2006, passed 12-19-2006; Ord. 150-
2007, passed 1-11-2007; Ord. 153-2008, passed 3-18-2008; Ord. 155-2009, passed
5-12-2009; Ord. 156-2009, passed 8-11-2009; Ord. 163-2011, passed 4-12-2011;
Ord. 166-2011, passed 7-12-2011; Ord. 186-2020, passed 9-21-2020)
CHAPTER 36: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Municipal Court established; jurisdiction
   
36.02   Proceedings of Court; conduct of business
Presiding Officer
   
36.15   Appointment; compensation
   
36.16   Powers and duties
   
36.17   Hearing Officers
Duties of Manager and Council
   
36.30   Duties of Town Manager
   
36.31   Town Council duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01 MUNICIPAL COURT ESTABLISHED; JURISDICTION.
   There is hereby established in the town a Municipal Court which shall have
jurisdiction of all violations of this code, and jurisdiction concurrently with
Justices of the Peace of precincts in which the town is located, of violations
of laws of the state committed within the limits of the town. The Municipal
Court is established pursuant to the State Constitution and A.R.S. § 22-402.
(1991 Code, Art. 5-1) (Ord. 64, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 36.02 PROCEEDINGS OF COURT; CONDUCT OF BUSINESS.
   The proceedings of the Court shall be conducted in accordance with the State
Constitution, the applicable state statutes and rules of the State Supreme
Court pertaining to police courts. The proceedings shall also be conducted in
accordance with the Rules of Criminal Procedure for the Superior Court, unless
otherwise prescribed, and providing this code and resolutions of the town are
not in conflict therewith. The Municipal Court shall at all times be open for
transaction of business except on nonjudicial days.
(1991 Code, Art. 5-3) (Ord. 64, passed 2-20-1989)
PRESIDING OFFICER
§ 36.15 APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION.
   The Municipal Court shall be composed of a presiding Municipal Court Judge
and any other judges as determined by the Council. The Council shall appoint
and may remove for cause the presiding judge and additional judges appointed.
All judges shall be appointed for a period of two years, with their
compensation to be determined by the Council.
(1991 Code, § 5-2-1) (Ord. 64, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 36.16 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Each Municipal Judge shall exercise powers, duties and
responsibilities as provided by the Constitution and laws of this state, this
code and town ordinances.
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Municipal Judge shall include but are not
necessarily limited to the following:
      (1)   Scheduling assignments of all judges;
      (2)   Submitting all reports required by the Constitution and the laws of
the state, this code and ordinances of the town;
      (3)   Reporting the activities of the Town Court as reasonably required
by the Council;
      (4)   The responsibility for fixing and receiving all bonds and bails and
receiving all fines, penalties, fees and other monies as provided by law; and
      (5)   The payment of all fines, penalties, fees and other monies
collected by the Court to the Town Treasurer.
(1991 Code, § 5-2-2) (Ord. 64, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 36.17 HEARING OFFICERS.
   The Council may appoint one or more Hearing Officers to preside over civil
traffic violation cases when the appointment of the Hearing Officers is
necessary to assure prompt disposition of civil traffic violation cases.
Hearing Officers may hear and dispose of civil traffic violation cases which
are appealable to the Superior Court pursuant to A.R.S. Title 22, Chapter 2,
Article 4 under the supervision of the presiding officer of the Magistrate
Court.
(1991 Code, § 5-2-3)
DUTIES OF MANAGER AND COUNCIL
§ 36.30 DUTIES OF TOWN MANAGER.
   The duties of the Town Manager include:
   (A)   Organize, administer, supervise and plan for all nonjudicial Municipal
Court operations, including personnel, payroll and insurance administration;
   (B)   Review Municipal Court schedule to ensure maximum utilization of town
resources and recommend changes to the Judge and to the Council to improve that
utilization; and
   (C)   Collection and safekeeping of all monies, i.e., fines, penalties and
fees collected in the Municipal Court, except as otherwise provided by law.
These monies are to be kept safe until transferred to the Town Treasurer.
(1991 Code, Art. 5-4) (Ord. 64, passed 2-20-1989)
§ 36.31 TOWN COUNCIL DUTIES.
   The duties of the Town Council include to provide for the financial,
physical, personnel and consulting requirements of the Municipal Court. The
Council may adopt those additional ordinances which are deemed necessary for
the consistent implementation of this section.
(1991 Code, Art. 5-4) (Ord. 64, passed 2-20-1989)
CHAPTER 37: TOWN POLICIES
Section
Personnel System
   
37.01   Personnel policies
   
37.02   Conditions of employment
   
37.03   Political contributions
   
37.04   Safety and loss prevention program
Cross-reference:
   Arizonans with Disabilities Act, amending the 2009 International Building
Code, see §
150.01
PERSONNEL SYSTEM
§ 37.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES.
   The town may adopt personnel policies, the provisions of which shall apply
to all employees of the town except elected officials, officers of the town
appointed by the Council, persons engaged under contract to supply expert,
professional or technical services, temporary employees, volunteer firefighters
and volunteer personnel who receive no regular compensation from the town.
(1991 Code, § 3-3-1) (Ord. 79-1992, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 37.02 CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The appointment, promotion and tenure of every employee shall be
conditioned solely on merit and fitness and the satisfactory performance of the
duties and responsibilities assigned. No employee or applicant for employment
shall be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, age,
political affiliation or disability. Also consistent with its commitment to
provide equal employment opportunities, the town will not tolerate any form of
employee harassment, including sexual harassment, harassment based upon race,
gender, national origin, religion, age or disability.
   (B)   (1)   Sexual harassment. SEXUAL HARASSMENT is defined as any unwelcome
sexual advances, requests for sexual favors or other verbal or physical conduct
of a sexual nature when submission to that conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual’s employment, submission to or
rejection of the conduct by an individual is used as the basis for employment
decisions affecting those individuals or the conduct has the purpose or effect
of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating
an intimidating, hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Other harassment. Any conduct which has the purpose or effect of
unreasonably interfering with an individual’s work performance or creating any
intimidation, hostile or offensive work environment, based on that individual’s
race, gender, national origin, religion, age or disability, is also unlawful
and will not be tolerated.
      (3)   Education. The Personnel Director shall be responsible for formally
notifying all employees, department directors, elected or appointed officials
and volunteers of this policy. Periodic training on the topic of offensive
behavior and harassment may be conducted and offered to all employees, elected
and appointed officials and others.
      (4)   Reporting possible harassment. Any employee who feels he or she has
been harassed should immediately contact either the director of the department
in which he or she works, the Personnel Director or Manager to report the
situation. All other employees, including supervisors or directors who become
aware of possible harassment of an employee, either as a result of having
received a complaint directly from the employee or from any other reliable
source of information, or from his or her personal observations, should report
the situation to the Personnel Director or the Manager.
      (5)   Implementation and no reprisals. The Manager and the department
directors are responsible for creating a productive work environment in which
offensive conduct or harassment is completely out of place, taking immediate
and appropriate corrective action in response to any confirmed violation of
this policy, and assuring that no reprisals are taken against those who
complain or against corroborating witnesses.
      (6)   Enforcement and investigation. The town is committed to thoroughly
investigate each complaint and take immediate and appropriate corrective action
on all confirmed violations of this policy. The Personnel Director is
responsible for the operation of this policy, providing counsel and resolving
any unsettled questions which may arise from this policy. The Manager/Personnel
Director, the appropriate department director or the Council is responsible for
thoroughly investigating and resolving any complaints. The Personnel Director
shall be responsible for overseeing the investigation of any complaint of
harassment. The goal will be to investigate any complaint promptly and
thoroughly. Furthermore, to the extent possible, a harassment complaint, as
well as the investigation of any complaint, shall be kept confidential.
Following the investigation, the Personnel Director shall take (or recommend,
if appropriate) appropriate corrective action on all violations of this policy
against harassment.
   (C)   Penalties. Any violation of this policy will result in appropriate
discipline being taken. The appropriate action to be taken necessarily will
depend on consideration of all the circumstances in a particular situation.
(1991 Code, § 3-3-2) (Ord. 91-1995, passed 4-17-1995)
§ 37.03 POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   No officer, official or employee of the town shall use any influence or
pressure upon any employee to obtain any assessment or contribution of money or
time, either direct or indirect, for any political campaign or personal gain.
(1991 Code, § 3-3-3)
§ 37.04 SAFETY AND LOSS PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   The Town Manager may implement a safety and loss prevention program
applicable to all employees of the town.
(1991 Code, § 3-3-4)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   WASTEWATER
      
52.   ELECTRIC UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: SOLID WASTE
Section
Garbage and Refuse Collection
   
50.01   Town as collection agency
   
50.02   Service charges
   
50.03   Disposal of garbage
   
50.04   Containers
   
50.05   Disposal of refuse
Removal of Litter
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Placement of litter
   
50.22   Owner to maintain premises
   
50.23   Violation for non-compliance
   
50.24   Notice to remove
   
50.25   Service of notice
   
50.26   Appeal to Council
   
50.27   Removal by town
   
50.28   Lien for removal
GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 50.01 TOWN AS COLLECTION AGENCY.
   (A)   The town, or other collectors authorized by the town, shall have the
exclusive right to collect all garbage and refuse within the town, except as
provided in this chapter or otherwise authorized in writing by the Council.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person in possession
of any building, structure, residence, place of business or apartment unit
within the town shall avoid or refuse to accept garbage or refuse disposal
service provided by the town, and any avoidance shall not exempt the premises
from the payment of charges for those services.
(1991 Code, § 10-1-1)
§ 50.02 SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   The Council shall establish a monthly charge for garbage and refuse
collection and disposal services, by resolution, as is necessary to produce
adequate revenue to cover the cost of services rendered.
   (B)   Charges to newly constructed structures shall commence upon final
inspection and approval of the structure by the Town Building Inspector.
   (C)   The monthly charge shall be paid in advance of service and shall be
paid by the owner, tenant, lessee, occupant or person in possession of any
occupied or utilized premises.
   (D)   Charges shall be delinquent upon the close of business 45 days after
the date on which they were due. The town may enforce the collection of any
unpaid and delinquent accounts by civil action or by discontinuance of service.
   (E)   All monies collected by the town under the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deposited to the General Fund of the town.
(1991 Code, § 10-1-2)
§ 50.03 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any owner, tenant, lessee, occupant or person in
possession of any building, structure or premises within the town to fail to
provide for the disposal of his or her garbage or refuse.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any owner, tenant, lessee, occupant or person in
possession of any building, structure or premises within the town to dispose of
his or her garbage and refuse at other than a landfill approved by the town for
that purpose.
   (C)   The term GARBAGE as used herein shall be deemed to comprise all wastes
and abandoned material commonly designated by that term, including food cans
and receptacles of like character and ashes, but it shall not include slop
waters, dish waters and rinsings and like liquids which later shall be disposed
of through the sewer, or any dead animal or human or animal excrement.
(1991 Code, § 10-1-3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Each inhabited or utilized structure in the town shall permanently
provide one or more substantial garbage cans of sufficient size to contain all
garbage of the structure. The cans shall be so constructed as to contain
without leakage all garbage placed therein and shall be covered with closely
fitting covers of the same material which shall remain in place at all times
except when being emptied or when garbage is actually being placed therein. The
cans shall be kept in some convenient place where the garbage collector may
find the same and remove the garbage therefrom. The size of all cans shall not
be in excess of 30 gallons and the maximum weight of each container when full
shall not exceed 50 pounds. All cans shall be kept on private property and
shall not be left upon the public streets and alleys, except for a reasonable
time on the day of pickup.
   (B)   The duty of providing garbage cans and covers and to see that the same
are kept in the place and condition required is imposed on each owner, lessee,
tenant or person in possession of a structure receiving service. Should any can
being used fail to meet the requirements provided herein and be deemed unfit
for use as a garbage can in the opinion of the garbage collector of the town,
the garbage collector shall place on the can a tag notifying the user thereof
that the can is unfit for further use and that the can will be picked up and
carried away on the next garbage collection day.
   (C)   No person shall use or remove garbage from any cans or uncover or
remove the same, without permission or license of the owner or other person in
charge or control thereof, except a person actually engaged in the work of
transporting the garbage.
   (D)   No person shall place or cause to be placed in any garbage can any
dead animal or any human or animal excrement.
(1991 Code, § 10-1-4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   The town has an automated collection system which uses special
containers required for this system. There is a charge set by Council from time
to time per 90-gallon container per month charge for residential collection.
   (B)   Garbage collection schedule: Downtown Thatcher is picked up on Mondays
and Thursdays; Daley Estates and Quail Ridge are picked up on Tuesdays and
Fridays (schedules may vary for holidays).
   (C)   The following guidelines and rules governing trash shall apply for all
town residents and are instituted to help keep the community safer and cleaner.
      (1)   Garbage.
         (a)   All containers shall be kept on private property and shall not
be left upon public streets, except for a reasonable time on the day of pickup.
         (b)   The garbage truck requires eight feet of free space on each side
of the container for the operation of the arms. The customer shall not to block
trash containers with vehicles, power poles and the like as this will prevent
the emptying of the container. The customer shall make sure the arrows are
facing forward and the lid is closed completely.
         (c)   The customer shall not place concrete, rocks, furniture, lumber,
large appliances or pieces of steel or hazardous waste in these containers as
they could damage the compaction mechanism.
         (d)   The customer shall not place hot ashes in these containers as it
may ruin the container and the customer may be responsible for its replacement.
      (2)   Trash.
         (a)   All grass, plants and leaves should be placed in plastic garbage
bags. Small amounts of grass/leaves may be placed in the 90-gallon or 300-
gallon containers; however these should not be more than half-filled with yard
trash. Bags should be placed on the street with the containers.
         (b)   For large piles or items such as limbs, dirt, appliances,
furniture and the like, customers should call the town hall at 428-2290 for a
truck to be scheduled for them to load themselves. If the load must be taken to
the landfill, landfill charges will be passed onto the citizen (minimum amount
set by Council from time to time). If the load is burnable, there will not be a
charge. Burnable materials are vegetative materials (except oleanders) and
untreated wood. Grass in plastic bags is not burnable. Mixed loads will be
taken to the landfill; the town will not separate loads. Trucks will be
scheduled on a first come first serve basis and cannot be left for an extended
period of time. Trucks will be delivered and dumped as time allows.
         (c)   Burn permits are available from ADEQ by calling 888-271-9302.
ADEQ burn permit applications are available at the town hall.
         (d)   The town will not pick up building materials left by
contractors; this includes lumber, shingles, plaster or drywall, concrete,
stone, aggregate, blacktop, bricks, block, carpet and other solid materials.
These should be hauled by the contractor to the landfill.
         (e)   The town will not pick up batteries, tires or appliances that
contain or contained refrigerant or other items considered hazardous waste.
Disposal of these items are the responsibility of the resident or business.
These items cannot be placed in the 90- or 300-gallon containers or trash
trucks.
         (f)   Trash not complying with these guidelines will not be collected.
(1991 Code, § 10-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
REMOVAL OF LITTER
§ 50.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. Any rubbish, trash, weeds, filth or debris which constitute a hazard
to public health and safety and shall include all putrescible and
nonputrescible solid wastes, including garbage, trash, ashes, street cleanings,
dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial waste; any
deposit, accumulation, pile or heap of brush, grass, debris, weeds, cans,
cloth, paper, wood, rubbish or other unsightly or unsanitary matter of any kind
whatsoever.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps or vestibules belonging
or appurtenant to the dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
(1991 Code, § 10-2-1)
§ 50.21 PLACEMENT OF LITTER.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any public place or
occupied or unoccupied private premises within the town, whether owned by the
person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property
may maintain authorized containers for collection in a manner that litter will
be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any public or
private property.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place any litter
upon any private premises or public place not owned or under the control of the
person, firm or corporation and, in addition to any fine which may be imposed
for a violation of any provision of this section, he or she shall be liable for
all costs which may be assessed pursuant to this subchapter for the removal of
the litter.
(1991 Code, § 10-2-2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.22 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter, provided that this section shall not
prohibit the storage of refuse or garbage in suitable containers as provided in
this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 10-2-3)
§ 50.23 VIOLATION FOR NON-COMPLIANCE.
   The town shall site a violation to the customer for non-compliance of
cleanup.
§ 50.24 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   To compel the removal of litter through the provisions of this subchapter,
if a person owning or controlling any property fails, neglects or refuses to
remove or properly dispose of litter, located on property owned or controlled
by the person, he or she shall be given written notice by any duly authorized
official of the town to remove all litter from the property prior to the date
set on the notice for compliance, which notice shall be given not less than 30
days before the date set for compliance. The notice shall contain an estimate
of the cost of removal by the town, a statement that, unless the person owning
or controlling the property complies therewith prior to the date of compliance,
the town will, at the expense of the person owning or controlling the property,
perform the necessary work at a cost not to exceed the estimate given in the
notice, and that the person may appeal in writing to the Council prior to the
date of compliance on the notice.
(1991 Code, § 10-2-4)
§ 50.25 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   Notice shall be personally served on the owner or person controlling the
property, by a duly authorized official of the town in the manner provided in
Rule 4(d) of the State Rules of Civil Procedure, or mailed to the owner or
person controlling the property at his or her last known address by certified
or registered mail, or the address to which the tax bill for the property was
last mailed. If the owner does not reside on the property, a duplicate notice
shall also be sent to him or her by certified or registered mail at his or her
last known address.
(1991 Code, § 10-2-5)
§ 50.26 APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   Prior to the date set for compliance on the notice, the owner or person
controlling the property may appeal in writing to the Council from the demand
as contained in the notice. The Council may, at its next regular meeting after
receiving the appeal, hear and determine the same and the decision of the
Council shall be final. The Council may either affirm or reverse the decision
of the duly authorized official or modify the scope of the work as required in
the notice. No action shall be taken by the town until the Council has heard
and determined all matters contained in the notice of appeal.
(1991 Code, § 10-2-6)
§ 50.27 REMOVAL BY TOWN.
   When any person to whom notice has been given, prior to the date of
compliance on the notice, or within any further time as may have been granted
by the Council on appeal, fails, neglects or refuses to move from the property
any or all litter, the duly authorized official is authorized and directed to
cause the litter to be removed and disposed of at the expense of the owner or
person controlling the property. Upon completion of the work, the duly
authorized official shall prepare a verified statement of account of the actual
cost of the removal or abatement, the date the work was completed, and the
street address and the legal description of the property on which the work was
done, including 5% for additional inspection and other incidental costs in
connection therewith, and shall serve a duplicate copy of the verified
statement upon the person owning or controlling the property in the manner
prescribed in §
50.24. The owner or person controlling the property shall have 30 days from the
date of service upon him or her to appeal in writing to the Council from the
amount of the assessment as contained in the verified statement. If an appeal
is not filed with the Clerk within this 30-day period, then the amount of the
assessment as determined by the duly authorized official shall become final and
binding. If an appeal is taken, the Council shall, at its next regular meeting,
hear and determine the appeal and may affirm the amount of the assessment,
modify the amount thereof, or determine that no assessment at all shall be
made. The decision of the Council shall be final and binding on all persons.
(1991 Code, § 10-2-7)
§ 50.28 LIEN FOR REMOVAL.
   If no appeal is taken from the amount of the assessment, or if an appeal is
taken and the Council has affirmed or modified the amount of the assessment,
the original assessment or the assessment as so modified shall be recorded in
the office of the County Recorder and, from the date of its recording, shall be
a lien on the private premises until paid. These liens shall be subject and
inferior to the lien for general taxes and to all prior recorded mortgages and
encumbrances of record. A sale of the property to satisfy a lien obtained under
the provisions of this section shall be made upon judgment of foreclosure or
order of sale. The town shall have the right to bring an action to enforce the
lien in the Superior Court at any time after the recording of the assessment,
but failure to enforce the lien by that action shall not affect its validity.
The recorded assessment shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of all
matters recited therein and of the regularity of all proceedings prior to the
recording thereof. A prior assessment for the purposes provided in this section
shall not be a bar to a subsequent assessment for those purposes, and any
number of liens on the same lot or tract of land may be enforced in the same
action.
(1991 Code, § 10-2-8)
CHAPTER 51: WASTEWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Town responsibilities and liabilities
   
51.03   Consumer responsibility
   
51.04   Interference with town officials; digging up streets without permit
   
51.05   Unsanitary disposal of excrement prohibited
   
51.06   Private sewage systems
   
51.07   Tampering with equipment prohibited
   
51.08   Permit required
   
51.09   Inspection and approval by town
   
51.10   Records to be kept of building connections
   
51.11   Regulations part of contract
Connection Fees and Rates
   
51.25   Application for service
   
51.26   Connection fees
   
51.27   Guarantee deposit
   
51.28   Monthly charges and rates
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.40   Prohibited substances
   
51.41   Interceptors required
   
51.42   Authority for review and approval of certain discharges
   
51.43   Preliminary treatment
   
51.44   Manholes
   
51.45   Tests and analyses
   
51.46   Special agreements with industrial concerns
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure in five days at 20ºC, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Those items as defined in 40 C.F.R. pt. 261.
   NORMAL WASTEWATER. Wastewater that contains not more than 300 mg/l B.O.D.,
or 300 mg/l suspended solids, is within a pH range of 6.5 to 8.0 or does not
contain excessive amounts of other materials as may reasonably be determined by
the town.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and which is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which the works
were designed and constructed.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. Wastes from toilets, baths, sinks, lavatories, laundries and other
plumbing fixtures in residences, institutions, public and business buildings,
mobile homes, watercraft and other places of human habitation, employment or
recreation. SEWAGE does not include motor oil, gasoline, paints, varnishes,
solvents, pesticides, fertilizers or other materials not generally associated
with toilet flushing, food preparation, laundry and personal hygiene.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WASTEWATER. The same as sewage.
(1991 Code, Art. 13-1)
§ 51.02 TOWN RESPONSIBILITIES AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   The town shall not be responsible for the installation, maintenance or
inspection of the consumer’s service line, piping and apparatus or for any
defects therein.
   (B)   The town shall have the right to refuse service, unless the consumer’s
lines or piping are installed in a manner as to prevent cross-connections or
backflow.
   (C)   Under normal conditions, the consumer shall be notified of any
anticipated interruption of service.
   (D)   The town shall not be responsible for the negligence of third persons
or forces beyond the control of the town resulting in any interruption of
service or damage to the property of the consumer.
   (E)   The town may refuse service to any prospective consumer when the
capacity of the sewer system will not permit additional loads being placed
thereon.
(1991 Code, § 13-3-1)
§ 51.03 CONSUMER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Building or house sewer connections on the consumer’s premises shall
be so arranged as to provide service to one lot. If additional service is
required, it will be considered as a separate and individual account.
   (B)   The consumer’s house or building service line, sewer connection and
apparatus shall be installed and maintained by the consumer, at the consumer’s
expense, in a safe and efficient manner and in accordance with the town’s rules
and regulations and in full compliance with the regulations of the State
Department of Health Services.
   (C)   The consumer shall safeguard the town’s property placed on the
consumer’s premises and shall permit access to it only by the authorized
representatives of the town.
   (D)   In the event that any loss or damage to the property of the town or
any accident or injury to persons or property is caused by or results from the
negligence or wrongful act of the consumer, his or her agents or employees, the
cost of necessary repairs or replacements shall be paid by the consumer to the
town and any liability otherwise resulting shall be assumed by the consumer.
The amount of the loss or damage or the cost of repairs may be added to the
consumer’s bill, and, if not paid, service may be discontinued by the town.
   (E)   The town may discontinue sewer service for the following additional
reasons:
      (1)   To prevent fraud or abuse; and
      (2)   The consumer’s willful disregard of or refusal to comply with this
chapter or other rules as may be adopted by the Council.
   (F)   When service to a consumer shall require the laying of any town sewer
lines or the installation of any other town property on, under, across or over
the consumer’s property, the consumer will grant to the town an easement,
right-of-way or license for the installation.
(1991 Code, § 13-3-2)
§ 51.04 INTERFERENCE WITH TOWN OFFICIALS; DIGGING UP STREETS WITHOUT PERMIT.
   It is unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To interfere in any way with town officials in the discharge of any of
their duties, either in the tapping of any sewer pipe, main or lateral
belonging to the town or in the laying or connecting of the pipe, main or
lateral;
   (B)   To dig up or cause to be dug up any street or alley in the town for
the purpose of connection with the sewer system of the town without first
obtaining a permit from the town; or
   (C)   Who, having a permit, to dig up any portion of any street or alley of
the town for the purpose of connecting with the sewer system of the town, to
fail or neglect to place the street or alley in its original condition under
the supervision of the town and as required by the town.
(1991 Code, § 13-3-3) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 UNSANITARY DISPOSAL OF EXCREMENT PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to deposit or permit to be deposited in an
unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the town, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the town, any human or animal excrement or other
objectionable waste.
(1991 Code, § 13-3-4) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Compliance with subchapter. Except as provided in this subchapter, it
is unlawful to construct or maintain within the town any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage.
   (B)   When permitted; sanitation. Where a public sanitary sewer is not
available within the town or in any area under the jurisdiction of the town,
the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system which
complies with the regulations of the State Department of Health Services. This
private sewage disposal system shall be constructed, maintained and operated at
all times in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   Discontinuance. After a public sewer becomes available within 150 feet
of any property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage facilities
shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(1991 Code, § 13-3-5) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage system.
(1991 Code, § 13-3-6) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the town.
(1991 Code, § 13-3-7) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL BY TOWN.
   No building sewer will be connected to the building connection until it has
been inspected and approved by the town. Fees for the inspections shall be
determined from time to time by the Council.
(1991 Code, § 13-3-8) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10 RECORDS TO BE KEPT OF BUILDING CONNECTIONS.
   The town shall keep a record of all building connections made, the purpose
for which they are to be used, together with the name of the owner of the
property, his or her agent or representative.
(1991 Code, § 13-3-9)
§ 51.11 REGULATIONS PART OF CONTRACT.
   All regulations contained in this chapter shall be considered a part of the
contract of every resident of the town taking sewer service from the town, and
the resident taking sewer service shall be considered as having expressly
consented to be bound thereby. Consumers outside the town limits shall, upon
application for sewer service, be required to sign a statement agreeing to the
regulations set forth in this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 13-5)
CONNECTION FEES AND RATES
§ 51.25 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   No sewer connection connecting the town sanitary sewer system to any
consumer shall be made by any person or the town except upon written
application furnished to the town by the owner of the premises to which
sanitary sewer service is to be furnished, or his or her authorized agent. A
monthly service charge will be made for the sanitary sewer connection according
to the rates fixed by the town until the service is discontinued by order of
the town or written order of the owner or his or her authorized agent.
(1991 Code, § 13-2-1) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.26 CONNECTION FEES.
   The fee for each building connection for residential users and for
commercial users shall be set by resolution of the Council.
(1991 Code, § 13-2-2)
§ 51.27 GUARANTEE DEPOSIT.
   (A)   A deposit, the amount of which shall be established by resolution,
shall be required of a user. This deposit shall be retained by the town as
security for payment of future sanitary sewer charges until the service is
terminated.
   (B)   The individual in whose name the deposit is made shall be responsible
for payment of all bills incurred in connection with the service furnished.
   (C)   A separate deposit may be required for each sewer connection or each
dwelling unit.
   (D)   The guarantee deposit receipt is not negotiable and can be redeemed
only at the town offices.
   (E)   Where the town finds that the request for refund of a guarantee
deposit is questionable, the town may require the applicant for refund to
produce the deposit receipt properly endorsed.
   (F)   Upon discontinuance of sanitary sewer service for nonpayment of bills,
or at the request of the consumer, the guarantee deposit shall be applied by
the town toward settlement of the final account of the consumer and any excess
remaining shall be refunded to the consumer.
(1991 Code, § 13-2-3) (Ord. 75, passed 4-20-1992)
§ 51.28 MONTHLY CHARGES AND RATES.
   (A)   A monthly sewer service charge as established by the Council shall be
made for each sanitary sewer connection.
   (B)   Rates may differ depending upon use, occupancy or location.
   (C)   The Council shall regulate and change the rates as it becomes
necessary to meet the obligations of the town for the municipal sewer system.
   (D)   All charges for sewer service are payable on the last day of the month
following billing at Town Hall. Each consumer shall be responsible for the
payment of charges at the proper place and time. If a monthly bill is still
unpaid 45 days following billing, the town reserves the right to place a lien
on the property or to take the customer to small claims court to collect
payment. Reconnection charge, payable in addition to a new deposit, shall be
set by resolution of the Council.
   (E)   Prior to terminating service for nonpayment of amounts due, the town
will give written notice to the consumer and provide an opportunity for a
hearing for the consumer with the Town Manager or his or her designee.
   (F)   In case any prescribed payment date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the effective date of payment, as set forth above, shall be
deemed to be the day following the Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday.
(1991 Code, § 13-2-4) (Ord. 75, passed 4-20-1992; Ord. 82-1992, passed 12-21-
1992) Penalty, see §
51.99
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.40 PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
swimming pool water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary
sewer.
   (B)   Except as provided in this chapter, no person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into any
public sewer:
      (1)    Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150ºF;
      (2)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 50 parts per million
by weight of fat, oil or grease;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, grits such as brick, cement,
onyx, carbide or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing
obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper
operation of the sewer works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (8)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of a character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle these
materials at the sewage treatment plant; or
      (9)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Commercial operations utilizing hazardous substances or creating
hazardous waste, as defined in A.R.S § 49-921(5), shall not be discharged into
sanitary sewer lines.
   (D)   Hazardous waste and items not included in the definition of sewage
shall not be discharged into the sanitary sewer lines or the sewage lagoons of
the town.
(1991 Code, § 13-4-1) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.41 INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand and
other harmful ingredients, except that these interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (B)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
material capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gas-tight and
watertight.
   (C)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
(1991 Code, § 13-4-2)
§ 51.42 AUTHORITY FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF CERTAIN DISCHARGES.
   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having any of
the following characteristics shall be subject to the review and approval of
the town:
   (A)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand (B.O.D.) greater than 300 parts
per million by weight;
   (B)   Containing more than 350 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids;
   (C)   Containing any quantity of substance having the characteristics
described in §
51.40; or
   (D)   Having an average daily flow of greater than 2% of the average daily
sewage flow of the town.
(1991 Code, § 13-4-3)
§ 51.43 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   (A)   Required. Where necessary in the opinion of the town, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, any preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
      (1)   Reduce the B.O.D. to 300 parts per million and the suspended solids
to 350 parts per million by weight;
      (2)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in §
51.42; and/or
      (3)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
   (B)   Approval. Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information
relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for
approval of the town and the State Department of Health Services. No
construction of these facilities shall be commenced until the approvals are
obtained in writing.
   (C)   Maintenance of facilities. Where preliminary treatment facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1991 Code, § 13-4-4)
§ 51.44 MANHOLES.
   When required by the town, the owner of any property served by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole in
the building sewer to facilitate observation and sampling of wastes. This
manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the town. The manhole shall be
installed by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by him or
her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(1991 Code, § 13-4-5)
§ 51.45 TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   All tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes, to which
reference is made in §§
51.40, 51.42 and 51.43, shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods
for the Examination of Water and Sewage and shall be determined at the control
manhole provided for in this subchapter or upon suitable samples taken at the
control manhole.
(1991 Code, § 13-4-6)
§ 51.46 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS WITH INDUSTRIAL CONCERNS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern.
(1991 Code, § 13-4-7)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
51.28(D) shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as hereinabove described.
(Ord. 82-1992, passed 12-21-1992)
CHAPTER 52: ELECTRIC UTILITY
Section
Rates and Charges
   
52.01   Rates
   
52.02   Load restrictions
   
52.03   Minimum charges
   
52.04   Security lights
   
52.05   Special transformers
   
52.06   Late charges
   
52.07   Disconnect/reconnect charges
   
52.08   Access
   
52.09   Service agreement
   
52.10   Rates for purchases from customer generating facilities
General Provisions
   
52.25   Purpose
   
52.26   Introduction
   
52.27   Definitions
   
52.28   Conditions of service
Connection with Distributed Generation Facilities
   
52.40   Conditions of interconnection
   
52.41   Interconnection
   
52.42   Protective relaying
   
52.43   Power factor
   
52.44   Metering
   
52.45   System disturbances
   
52.46   Daily reporting
 
   
52.99   Penalty
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.01 RATES.
   (A)   Service rates. The service rates set by Council are applicable to all
single- and three-phase residential service for individual private premises and
individually metered apartments when all service is supplied at one point of
delivery and energy is measured through one meter. The rates are not applicable
to resale, breakdown or standby service for customers operating their own
generating facilities.
   (B)   General service rates. This rates set by Council are applicable to all
general power and lighting service for which no specific schedule of rates is
provided and when all energy is supplied at one point of delivery and measured
by one meter.
   (C)   Commercial rates. The rates set by Council are applicable to all
single- and three-phase commercial service when all service is supplied at one
point of delivery and energy is measured through one meter. The rates are not
applicable to resale, breakdown or standby service for customers operating
their own generating facilities.
   (D)   Temporary service rates. The rates set by Council are applicable to
all types of light and power service for temporary service, which shall be in
service for less than one month. Applicant shall pay all costs incurred for the
installation.
   (E)   Irrigation service rates. The rates set by Council are for irrigation
pumping applicable to three- phase service.
   (F)   Meter charge. The rates are set by Council.
   (G)   Contract and emergency service rates. Rates and conditions for this
service shall be determined by the Town Council.
   (H)   State and local sales taxes. The rate schedules for purchasing
electricity shall add all applicable state and local sales taxes to each
customer’s bill. The sales tax shall be shown as a separate item on the bill.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-1) (Ord. 80-1992, passed 12-21-1992) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 LOAD RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Motors or other services requiring more than three horsepower, or
equivalent, of operating current for single-phase or more than ten horsepower,
or equivalent, of operating current for three- phase, shall have proper
starting windings on equipment as approved by authorized personnel of the town.
   (B)   If the power factor falls below 95% lagging at any metering point
during any billing period, the town may:
      (1)   Adjust kilowatt-hours and kilowatts during this period, for billing
purposes, to equal 95% of kilovolt-ampere-hours and 95% of kilovolt-amperes
(KVA);
      (2)   Require the customer to correct the power factor to an acceptable
level;
      (3)   Require the customer to be continuously metered with a separate
meter that registers kilovolt-amperes, kilovars or actual power factor; or
      (4)   At the town’s discretion, customer may be required to pay all costs
associated with additional metering.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-2) (Ord. 124-2003, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 52.03 MINIMUM CHARGES.
   The minimum monthly charges as set forth in §
52.01(A) and (B) are based on three KVA or less of installed transformer
capacity. When more than three KVA of transformer is required, the minimum
monthly charge shall be increased at the rate at an amount as the Council may
set by resolution from time to time for each additional KVA or fractional part
thereof required.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-3)
§ 52.04 SECURITY LIGHTS.
   This section is applicable to all security lights. The customer shall pay
for the actual cost of installing the light, to include the pole, light fixture
and labor. Thereafter the town will maintain the security light.
 
Rate: An amount as the Council may set by resolution from time to time
 
(1991 Code, § 14-1-4)
§ 52.05 SPECIAL TRANSFORMERS.
   This section is for all special order transformers, transformers that are
installed for exclusive use of a customer or at the specific request of a
customer. The customer shall pay for the first transformer and the town will
stock a replacement transformer thereafter.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-5)
§ 52.06 LATE CHARGES.
   (A)   A late fee of 1.5% of the total bill with an amount as the Council may
set by resolution from time to time will be added to all electric bills not
paid by the last day of each month, unless the last day falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or a legal holiday, which would then put the last day to make a utility
payment on the next regular working day. This penalty applies to all
commercial, irrigation and residential customers when they are past due,
regardless if they enter into a payment extension agreement with the utility
office and will continue to accrue to an account for each month that late
payments are made.
   (B)   A person is only eligible to enter into a payment extension agreement
when he or she is able to show how he or she will make the delinquent payments
to the Utility Supervisor or Town Manager, and it will be at their discretion
and judgment whether to allow an account to enter into a payment extension
agreement. It shall be understood that an essential element of a payment
extension agreement is that all future electricity payments must be made by
their due date in conjunction with any delinquent payments. Should a customer
not comply with the terms of the payment extension agreement, including
becoming delinquent on future utility bills, then the payment extension
agreement shall become null and void and this electric service subject to
shutoff. Payment extension agreements are not to continue beyond three months
in any calendar year for any customer or single account.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-6) (Ord. 98-1997, passed 1-21-1997)
§ 52.07 DISCONNECT/RECONNECT CHARGES.
   A disconnect/reconnect charge will be assessed for all disconnects/
reconnects. The Council from time to time will review and adopt by resolution
the amount of these disconnect/reconnect charges for electric service after it
has been terminated due to nonpayment of a utility bill or for any other valid
reason caused by the customer.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-7) (Ord. 98-1997, passed 1-21-1997)
§ 52.08 ACCESS.
   The town’s authorized agents shall have unassisted access to the customer’s
sites at all reasonable hours to install, inspect, read, repair or remove its
meters or to install, operate or maintain other town property, or to inspect
and determine the connected electrical load. If, after three months (not
necessarily consecutive) of good-faith efforts by the town to deal with the
customer, the town, in its opinion, does not have unassisted access to the
meter, the town may terminate service. Seven calendar days’ advance written
notice will be given prior to terminating service for failure to provide
unassisted access. If service is terminated as a result of failure to provide
unassisted access, town verification of unassisted access may be required
before service is restored. In addition to or in lieu of termination of
service, the town may install a specialized meter that allows unassisted
access. If the specialized meter is installed, the customer will be billed and
must pay the cost of the specialized meter.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-8) (Ord. 151-2007, passed 4-10-2007)
§ 52.09 SERVICE AGREEMENT.
   In the absence of a signed contract for electric service, the supplying of
electric service by the town and acceptance of electric service by the customer
shall constitute a service agreement between the town and the customer for
delivery of, acceptance of and payment for services, subject to the provisions
of this subchapter.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-9) (Ord. 151-2007, passed 4-10-2007)
§ 52.10 RATES FOR PURCHASES FROM CUSTOMER GENERATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The utility does not offer any subsidies to support the capital cost
of the installation of distributed generation facilities. The utility may
revise this policy in the future without any retroactive payments to then
existing facilities.
   (B)   For distributed generation facilities of 100 kW or less, the kWh
supplied by the utility will be compared each month, during the normal billing
cycle, with the kWh from the customer generation. If the electricity supplied
by the utility exceeds the customer generation, the customer shall be billed
for the net kWh by the utility according to the customer’s standard rate
schedule. If the customer generation exceeds the electricity supplied by the
utility, the customer shall be credited during the next billing period for the
excess kWh generated, and this credit will be applied to reduce the kWh
supplied in that month in addition to the customer generation supplied in that
month.
   (C)   Once each calendar year, the utility shall issue a check or billing
credit to the customer for any balance due to accumulating generation credits
described in division (B) above.
   (D)   The standard rates for purchases from distributed generation
facilities shall be based on the utility’s “avoided costs” for energy (kWh).
   (E)   These rates may be adjusted for the distributed generation’s effect on
the utility’s system losses, administrative costs, dispatch ability,
reliability, term of contract and other factors which impact the utility’s
costs.
   (F)   Should the utility’s actual avoided costs as determined in division
(D) of this section drop below a previously contracted rate, the utility
retains the right to cancel the contract and offer to renegotiate or wheel the
power from a distributed generation facility. Sixty days’ notice shall be
provided to the owner of the distributed generation of use of this provision.
   (G)   The utility shall review annually its avoided costs as determined
above and publish standard rates for purchase.
   (H)   Capacity payments shall be made in any case in which the distributed
generation owner enters into a legally enforceable contract to provide
accredited capacity. The payment for the capacity purchase from the distributed
generation facility shall take into account the following items:
      (1)   Length of the contract term;
      (2)   Reasonable scheduling of maintenance;
      (3)   Willingness and ability of the customer to allow the utility to
dispatch the customer’s generation;
      (4)   The utility’s ability to defer a purchase from another source or to
defer construction of a facility or a portion of a facility;
      (5)   Sanctions imposed for noncompliance with these rules and any
contract between the utility and the distributed generation owner; and
      (6)   Availability and reliability of the distributed generation
facility.
   (I)   Any tax or payment in lieu thereof imposed on the utility by any
lawful authority on the production, transmission, sale or purchase of energy or
capacity and energy that would not occur due to a comparable non-generating
customer shall be the responsibility of the distributed generation owner.
(1991 Code, § 14-4)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.25 PURPOSE.
   The town hereby undertakes to comply with all lawful regulations of the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) codified in 18 C.F.R. pt. 292,
subpt. c dealing with arrangements with qualifying cogeneration and small power
production facilities under § 210 of Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of
1978 (PURPA) and all amendments thereto.
(1991 Code, § 14-2-1)
§ 52.26 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The town electric utility is a non-regulated electric utility. The
utility will implement, to the extent possible, the connection of qualified
distributed generation facilities to the utility’s electric distribution
system. DISTRIBUTED GENERATION for these purposes will be defined as generation
located at a utility customer site and meeting the necessary requirements to be
connected to the utility distribution system. This generation may include any
of various types of renewable energy. All generation facilities must meet
utility requirements prior to connection.
   (B)   These rules apply to all entities willing and able to enter into an
agreement with the utility. Provisions of these rules shall not supersede
existing contracts.
   (C)   These rules represent general guidelines since the nature, size and
character of qualifying facilities can vary widely. The utility reserves the
right to evaluate qualifying facilities on a case-by-case basis.
(1991 Code, § 14-2-2)
§ 52.27 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The following definitions apply to §§
52.10,
52.25 through
52.28 and
52.40 through
52.46.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCREDITED CAPACITY. The electrical rating given to generating equipment
that meets the utility’s criteria for uniform rating of equipment. These
criteria include but are not limited to reliability, availability, type of
equipment and the degree of coordination between the qualifying facility and
the utility.
      CAPACITY COSTS. The costs associated with providing the capability to
deliver energy. They consist of the capital costs of facilities used to
generate and transmit electricity or the cost to purchase that capacity from
other utilities.
      DEMAND. The average rate in kilowatts at which electric capacity is made
available as determined at the point of measurement during any 30-minute period
or any other period to be determined by the utility.
      DISTRIBUTED GENERATION. Generation located at a utility customer site and
meeting the necessary requirements to be connected to the utility distribution
system.
      ENERGY. Electric energy as measured in kilowatt hours (kWh) at the point
of measurement.
      ENERGY COSTS. The variable costs associated with the production of
electric energy. They represent energy related cost only or the average cost of
purchased energy. Identifiable capacity charges included in purchased power
agreements shall not be included in the calculation of the cost of purchased
energy.
      POINT OF INTERCONNECTION. The point or points at which the qualifying
facility is to receive and/or deliver energy or capacity and energy under
normal operating conditions.
      POINT OF MEASUREMENT. The point or points where energy and/or demand are
metered.
      PRESENT UTILITY PRACTICE. Any of the practices, methods and acts engaged
in or approved by a significant portion of the electrical utility industry
consistent with reliability, safety and expedition.
(1991 Code, § 14-2-3)
§ 52.28 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   The conditions listed in this subchapter shall apply to all qualifying
facilities served under these rules.
   (A)   The utility shall purchase energy or capacity and energy from any
approved distributed generation customer who offers to sell energy or capacity
and energy from his or her generation facilities under 100 kW. The generation
may use renewable resources, a fuel cell, cogeneration or a hydrocarbon fueled
unit to generate electricity. It shall be intended to provide part or all of
the customer’s requirements for electricity and have a generating capacity that
is less than or equal to 125% of the customer’s total connected load at the
site where the distributed generation is located. Generation that is not
consistent with these limits shall be required to obtain a negotiated contract
with the utility. Nothing in this subchapter shall limit the utility’s ability
to evaluate the distributed generation and determine terms and conditions that
are mutually satisfactory to all parties and in no way shall be detrimental to
the operation of the utility’s facilities and customers.
   (B)   The utility shall sell any capacity and energy that is required by the
qualifying facility to the qualifying facility. The qualifying facility shall
be billed under the applicable residential, general, industrial or contractual
service schedule.
   (C)   The utility shall offer to provide maintenance, interruptible,
supplementary and back-up power to the qualifying facility if requested by the
qualifying facility.
   (D)   The distributed generation owner shall execute a written agreement
with the utility. The utility reserves the right to waive this requirement. The
waiving of this requirement by the utility does not relinquish the utility’s
right to require the execution of a written agreement in the future.
   (E)   The distributed generation shall comply with all requirements of the
National Electrical Safety Code, American National Standards Institute,
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers, American Society of
Mechanical Engineers, and any other applicable local, state or national code,
including current IEEE standards, and operate its equipment according to
prudent utility practice. In case of any conflict in the foregoing codes or
standards, the utility shall decide which shall govern.
   (F)   Switching equipment capable of isolating the distributed generation
from the utility’s system shall be accessible to the utility or its agent at
all times.
   (G)   At its option, the utility or its agent may choose to operate, without
notice or liability, the switching equipment described in division (F) of this
section if, in the opinion of the utility or its agent, continued operation of
the distributed generation in connection with the utility’s system may create
or contribute to a system emergency or safety hazard. The utility’s obligation
to purchase from the distributed generation system ceases when the utility or
its agent operates the switching equipment described in division (F) of this
section. The utility shall endeavor to minimize any adverse effects of the
operation on the distributed generation system.
   (H)   The distributed generation owner shall indemnify and hold harmless the
utility from any and all liability arising from the operation and
interconnection of the customer’s facilities. The distributed generation owner
shall bear full responsibility for the installation and safe operation of the
equipment required to generate and deliver energy or capacity and energy to the
point of interconnection.
   (I)   The owner of a distributed generation facility who employs operations,
maintenance or other personnel in relation to the distributed generation shall
maintain worker’s compensation insurance as required by law, and all
distributed generation facilities shall maintain public liability insurance
covering bodily injury and property damage in an amount not less than
$5,000,000 per occurrence. Each public liability policy shall name the utility
as an additional insured.
   (J)   The utility shall not be liable whether in contract or in tort or
under any other legal theory to the owner of a distributed generation facility,
the owner’s customers or any other person or entity for:
      (1)   Lost generation revenue;
      (2)   Loss of use, revenue or profit;
      (3)   Cost of capital;
      (4)   Substitute use or performance; or
      (5)   Any other incidental, indirect, special or consequential damages.
   (K)   The utility shall provide upon request sufficient data to allow the
customer to determine the cost- effectiveness of the distributed generation if
it goes into operation pursuant to these rules.
   (L)   The distributed generation owner shall provide an advance payment to
the utility if in the opinion of the utility the costs of interconnection will
be excessive or the amount of work that must be done by the utility to provide
the interconnection facilities will be excessive.
   (M)   Any costs of interconnection which are over and above the
interconnection costs that would be incurred due to the connection of a
comparable non-generating customer and which are incurred by the utility due to
the interconnection of the distributed generation shall be the responsibility
of the distributed generation owner. Interconnection costs may be amortized
over a period of time not greater than the length of the contract between the
utility and the distributed generation owner, at the option of the utility.
   (N)   The utility may discontinue sales to the distributed generation
customer during a system emergency, providing that the discontinuance is on a
nondiscriminatory basis.
   (O)   Should the owner of a distributed generation facility request the
utility to wheel its power to an adjacent utility, the utility may do so, at
its option.
   (P)   If the utility agrees to wheel the power, a charge may be made to the
distributed generation owner for interconnection costs, any modifications to
the utility’s facilities to accommodate the wheeling, use of the utility’s
facilities to wheel and any associated administrative costs.
   (Q)   The amount of power wheeled may be adjusted up or down according to
the effect on the utility’s system losses due to wheeling.
(1991 Code, § 14-3)
CONNECTION WITH DISTRIBUTED GENERATION FACILITIES
§ 52.40 CONDITIONS OF INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   The utility shall allow interconnection between its facilities and
distributed generation facilities on a continuing basis as long as the parallel
operation of the distributed generation does not degrade, in any way, the
quality of the electric service provided to the utility’s other customers. The
distributed generation owner shall ensure that its operation in no way creates
unsafe conditions either at its facility or on the utility’s facilities.
   (B)   The owner of the distributed generation shall enter into a written
agreement with the utility for interconnections, sale or wheeling of its power
prior to actual connection and operation of its facilities.
   (C)   The distributed generation shall comply with all requirements of the
National Electrical Safety Code, American National Standards Institute (ANSI),
Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE), American Society of
Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the National Electric Code, General Order 95,
including current IEEE standards, and all local, state and federal rules and
regulations or codes which may be applicable.
(1991 Code, § 14-5-1)
§ 52.41 INTERCONNECTION.
   (A)   The owner of the distributed generation shall, to the point of
interconnection, furnish, install, operate and maintain in good repair and
without cost to the utility relays, locks and seals, breakers, automatic
synchronizers and other control and protective equipment as shall be designated
by the utility as suitable for the operation of the distributed generation in
parallel with the utility’s system. The distributed generation operator shall
take appropriate steps to ensure that operating in parallel will not degrade in
any fashion the quality of service that is normally maintained on the utility’s
system.
   (B)   The owner of the distributed generation shall provide at no cost to
the utility a manually operated and lockable, visual disconnect device that
shall be for the exclusive use of the utility and accessible by utility
representatives at all times. Usually the device will be an air switch or fused
cutouts located near the point of interconnection.
   (C)   The protective switching equipment outlined above in division (B) of
this section may be operated without notice or liability by the utility or
utility representative if, in the opinion of the utility or its representative,
continued operation of the distributed generation in connection with the
utility’s system may create or contribute to a system emergency or safety
hazard. The utility shall endeavor to minimize any adverse effects of the
operation on the distributed generation.
   (D)    The utility shall be advised of the proposed start-up and parallel
time for the facilities and a utility representative shall be in attendance and
shall approve parallel operation.
(1991 Code, § 14-5-2)
§ 52.42 PROTECTIVE RELAYING.
   (A)   All generating units must be equipped with short-circuit interrupting
devices consisting of thermal-magnetic overcurrent devices on each phase as
well as undervoltage release and solenoid tripping accessories.
   (B)   Over and under voltage and frequency protection shall be provided to
effectively isolate the distributed generation from the utility’s facilities
should its power output not be within the utility’s normal operating
tolerances. The normal tolerances for under and over voltage are 80% with ten-
second time delay and 120% with no time delay of normal. Under and over
frequency limits are 58 Hz and 62 Hz with one-second time delay. Frequency
relays are not required for solid state inverters which are line commutated.
   (C)   For distributed generation facilities, primary, ground-fault sensing
equipment shall be required to isolate the distributed generation from the
utility’s facilities unless otherwise specified by the utility.
(1991 Code, § 14-5-3)
§ 52.43 POWER FACTOR.
   The power output of the distributed generation must approach a unity power
factor when operated in parallel with the utility’s facilities. Equipment shall
be installed to correct any deficiencies in power factor by the owner of the
distributed generation at the owner’s expense.
(1991 Code, § 14-5-4)
§ 52.44 METERING.
   (A)   The utility shall provide metering equipment capable of registering
and accumulating the kWh of electricity flowing in both directions and the
customer kW in each billing period. The customer shall be responsible for the
difference in cost between a standard utility-supplied meter and the bi-
directional meter required for distributed generation. A separate meter may be
installed by the utility on the generation unit to determine the amount of
generation (kWh) contributed to the utility’s system.
   (B)   The utility shall own and maintain all necessary meters and associated
equipment utilized for billing and monitoring the customer’s load and
generation.
(1991 Code, § 14-5-5)
§ 52.45 SYSTEM DISTURBANCES.
   Disturbances to the utility’s facilities shall be minimized to the greatest
extent possible. These disturbances shall include but not be limited to lagging
or leading power factors, unacceptable voltage regulation, voltage flicker and
harmonics.
(1991 Code, § 14-5-6)
§ 52.46 DAILY REPORTING.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a distributed generation facility shall
maintain a daily operations log for all facilities. The log shall contain
information on unit parallel and separation times, maintenance outages, trip
operation and other unusual events. KW operating level may also be required.
   (B)   The utility shall have the right to periodically review these logs.
(1991 Code, § 14-5-7)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
52.01(H) shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as hereinabove described.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-1)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
52.02 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as hereinabove described.
(1991 Code, § 14-1-2)
   (D)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §§
52.08 and
52.09 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as hereinabove described.
(1991 Code, §§ 14-1-8, 14-1-9)
   (E)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §§
52.28 and
52.40 through 52.46 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a
violation continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein described.
(Ord. 80-1992, passed 12-21-1992; Ord. 124-2003, passed 10-21-2003; Ord. 151-
2007, passed 4-10-2007; Ord. 159-2010, passed 1-20-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS; ADMINISTRATION
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS; ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
70.01   Duty of Police Department
   
70.02   Records of traffic violations
   
70.03   Accident investigation
   
70.04   Detention of persons to serve traffic complaint
   
70.05   Traffic accident studies
   
70.06   Traffic accident reports
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Civil traffic violations, see Hearing Officers, §
36.17
§ 70.01 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department under the direction of the
Police Chief to provide for the enforcement of the street traffic regulations
of the town and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in
the town, to make arrests for traffic violations, to investigate accidents and
to assist in developing ways and means to improve traffic conditions and to
carry out all duties specially imposed upon the Police Chief by this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 12-1-1)
§ 70.02 RECORDS OF TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The Police Chief shall keep a record of all violations of the traffic
laws of the town or of the state vehicle laws of which any person has been
charged, together with a record of the final disposition of all the alleged
offenses. This record shall accumulate during at least a five-year period and
from that time on the record shall be maintained complete for at least the most
recent five-year period.
   (B)   All forms for records of violations and notices shall be serially
numbered.
(1991 Code, § 12-1-2)
§ 70.03 ACCIDENT INVESTIGATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department under the direction of the
Police Chief to investigate traffic accidents and to arrest and assist in the
prosecution of those persons charged with violations of law causing or
contributing to the accidents.
(1991 Code, § 12-1-3)
§ 70.04 DETENTION OF PERSONS TO SERVE TRAFFIC COMPLAINT.
   Any police officer or duly authorized agent of the town may stop and detain
a person as is reasonably necessary to investigate an actual or suspected
violation of this chapter and to serve a copy of the traffic complaint for any
alleged civil or criminal violations of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 12-1-4)
§ 70.05 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT STUDIES.
   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous, the
Police Chief shall conduct studies of the accidents and determine remedial
measures.
(1991 Code, § 12-1-5)
§ 70.06 TRAFFIC ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   The Police Chief shall maintain a suitable system of filing traffic accident
reports.
(1991 Code, § 12-1-6)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of or failure or refusal to do or perform any act required by
this title constitutes a civil traffic violation. Civil traffic violations are
subject to the provisions of the state statutes.
(1991 Code, Art. 1-8B.)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Directing traffic
   
71.02   Obedience to traffic regulations
   
71.03   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
71.04   Traffic-control devices
   
71.05   Authority to designate crosswalks, establish safety zones and mark
traffic lanes
   
71.06   Authority to place and obedience to turning markers
   
71.07   Authority to place and obedience to restricted turn signs
   
71.08   Limitations on turning around
   
71.09   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.10   Regulation of traffic at intersections
   
71.11   Designation of through streets
   
71.12   Drivers to obey signs
   
71.13   Processions
   
71.14   Unnecessary squealing tires
   
71.15   Damage to roadway
   
71.16   Streets under construction or repair
   
71.17   Motorized play vehicles and motorized skateboards
§ 71.01 DIRECTING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Police officers are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand or signal.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist police officers in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-1)
§ 71.02 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person may do any forbidden
act or fail to perform any act required by this chapter. No person may
willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any
police officer or of any Fire Department official.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.03 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or ride a skateboard,
roller skates, roller skis or play vehicle in any of the following places:
      (1)   All that part of the town as described as follows: the sidewalk on
the west side of College Avenue from Highway 70 south to the railroad tracks,
the sidewalk on the east side of Stadium Avenue from Highway 70 south to the
Canal, the sidewalk on the north and south of Church Street from College Avenue
to Stadium Avenue, the sidewalk on the north and south side of Railroad Street
from College Avenue to Stadium Avenue, the sidewalk on the south side of
Highway 70 from College Avenue to Stadium Avenue; or
      (2)   On private property, except where a sign allowing the use has been
posted or permission granted by the owner, lessee or person in charge of the
property.
   (B)   In areas where not prohibited, operators of skateboards, roller
blades, roller skates, roller skis or play vehicles shall yield the right-of-
way to other pedestrians using public sidewalks, and shall not otherwise
congregate, endanger or interfere with pedestrian traffic on those sidewalks.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-3) (Ord. 107-1998, passed 9-15-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.04 TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Upon recommendation of the Police Chief and approval of the Council,
the Town Manager shall have placed and maintained traffic-control devices,
signs and signals when and as required under the traffic regulations of the
town to make effective the provisions of those regulations, and may have placed
and maintained any additional traffic-control devices as he or she may deem
necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic laws of the town or under state
law or to guide or warn traffic.
   (B)   The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official
traffic-control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with the traffic
regulations of the town unless otherwise directed by a police officer, subject
to the exceptions granted in this chapter or by state law.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-4)
§ 71.05 AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS, ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES AND MARK
TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Town Manager, upon recommendation of the Police Chief and approval by
the Council, is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To have designated and maintained, by appropriate devices, marks or
lines upon the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections where, in
his or her opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the
roadway, and at other places as he or she may deem necessary;
   (B)   To establish safety zones of a kind and character and at those places
as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians; and
   (C)   To have marked lanes for traffic on street pavement at places as he or
she may deem advisable, consistent with the traffic laws of the town.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-5)
§ 71.06 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO TURNING MARKERS.
   (A)   The Town Manager, upon recommendation of the Police Chief, is
authorized to have placed markers, buttons or signs within or adjacent to
intersections indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning at those
intersections, and the course to be traveled as so indicated may conform to or
be other than as prescribed by law.
   (B)   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of those
indications.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-6) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.07 AUTHORITY TO PLACE AND OBEDIENCE TO RESTRICTED TURN SIGNS.
   (A)   The Town Manager, upon recommendation of the Police Chief and approval
by the Council, is hereby authorized to determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn and shall place
proper signs at those intersections. The making of the turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs, or the signs may be removed
when the turns are permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right, left
or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of
any sign.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.08 LIMITATIONS ON TURNING AROUND.
   The driver of any vehicle shall not turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the
opposite direction upon any street in a business district and shall not so turn
a vehicle upon any other street unless the movement can be made in safety and
without interfering with other traffic.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-8) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.09 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   The Council may designate any streets or alleys which are to be
limited to one-way traffic.
   (B)   Whenever the Council designates any one-way street or alley, the Town
Manager shall have placed and maintained signs giving notice thereof, and no
such regulation shall be effective unless the signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-9) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.10 REGULATION OF TRAFFIC AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Council shall designate through streets, intersections where stops
are required and intersections where vehicles shall yield the right-of-way.
   (B)   Whenever the Council shall designate any through street or
intersection where vehicles are to stop or yield the right-of-way, the Town
Manager shall erect and maintain the appropriate signs at every location where
a vehicle must stop or yield the right-of-way.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-10)
§ 71.11 DESIGNATION OF THROUGH STREETS.
   (A)   The streets set forth in Chapter 74, Schedule I are hereafter to be
known as through streets.
   (B)   To facilitate a safe and orderly flow of traffic upon streets under
the jurisdiction of the town, stop signs shall be placed upon all streets
intersecting with the through streets and other traffic signs and devices as
deemed necessary.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-11) (Ord. 24-A, passed 9-21-1964) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.12 DRIVERS TO OBEY SIGNS.
   Whenever traffic signs are erected as provided in this chapter, every driver
of a vehicle shall obey the signs unless otherwise directed to proceed by a
police officer or a traffic-control signal. No driver shall drive upon or
through any private property, such as an oil station, vacant lot or similar
property, to avoid obedience to any regulation included in this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-12) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.13 PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No procession or parade, except funeral processions, shall be held
without first securing a permit from the Police Chief, and all these requests
for permits shall state the time, place of formation, proposed line of march,
destination and any other information as the Police Chief may require therein.
   (B)   A funeral procession composed of a procession of vehicles shall be
identified by methods as may be determined and designated by the Police Chief.
   (C)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the conspicuously
designated vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while
the vehicles are in motion. This provision shall not apply at intersections
where traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or a police officer.
   (D)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-13) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.14 UNNECESSARY SQUEALING TIRES.
   No person shall operate any motor vehicle at a speed on a curve or a turn or
accelerate the motor vehicle in a manner as to create loud and unnecessary
noise through the squealing of tires upon the pavement.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-14) (Ord. 42, passed 9-17-1979) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.15 DAMAGE TO ROADWAY.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, including farm equipment, in a
manner as to cause damage to any public roadway.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-15) (Ord. 42, passed 9-17-1979) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 STREETS UNDER CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle upon a roadway under construction or a
roadway under repair when signs and barricades are visibly in place or a
flagperson is present so designating that the roadway is closed to all
vehicular traffic.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-16) (Ord. 42, passed 9-17-1979) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.17 MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLES AND MOTORIZED SKATEBOARDS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTORIZED PLAY VEHICLE. A coaster, scooter any other alternatively fueled
device or other motorized vehicle that is self-propelled by a motor or engine
and which is not otherwise defined in A.R.S. Title 28, as a motor vehicle,
motor-driven cycle or motorized wheelchair.
      MOTORIZED SKATEBOARD. A self-propelled device which has a motor or
engine, a deck on which a person may ride and at least two wheels in contact
with the ground and which is not otherwise defined in A.R.S. Title 28, as
amended, as a motor vehicle, motor-driven cycle or motorized wheelchair.
      OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
motorized play vehicle or a motorized skateboard upon a public roadway,
sidewalk, right-of-way, park, bicycle path or any other public property used
for the operation of motor vehicles.
      OWNER. A person who holds the legal title to a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard, or any person who is a lessee, conditional vendee or
mortgagor of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard with a right to
immediate possession.
   (B)   Applicability of traffic laws.
      (1)   All traffic laws shall apply to persons riding motorized play
vehicles and motorized skateboards. Every person operating a motorized play
vehicle or motorized skateboard upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to
vehicles, or by the traffic regulations of this town applicable to the driver
of a vehicle, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to
those provisions which by their nature can have no application.
      (2)   This section shall not be construed to require the licensing or
registration of motorized play vehicles or motorized skateboards, the licensing
of motorized play vehicle or skateboard operators, or the carrying of insurance
covering accidents involving motorized play vehicles or motorized skateboards.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person operating a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard not to obey the instructions of official traffic-control
signals, signs and other traffic direction devices applicable to vehicles,
unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (C)   Responsibility of parents, guardians and custodians. No person shall,
if a parent, guardian or custodian of a child, authorize or knowingly permit
any child to violate this chapter.
   (D)   Prohibited operation. No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle
or motorized skateboard:
      (1)   On any sidewalk, except for use in crossing the sidewalk by the
most direct route to gain access to any public or private road or driveway;
      (2)   In any town parking structure or town park, except for use on
public roadways within the park;
      (3)   On any public property that has been posted or designated by the
owner of the property as an area prohibiting skateboards;
      (4)   On any public roadway consisting of a total of four or more marked
traffic lanes, or having an established speed limit of greater than 25 mph;
      (5)   On any private property of another, or any public property which is
not held open to the public for vehicle use, without the written permission of
the owner, the person entitled to immediate possession of the property, or the
authorized agent of either; or
      (6)   Within any path or lane that is designated as a bicycle lane or
path by state or local authorities.
   (E)   General operating restrictions.
      (1)   No child under the age of 13 shall operate a motorized play vehicle
or motorized skateboard.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard in excess of the posted speed limit or at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the circumstances then existing.
      (3)   The operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard,
approaching a sidewalk, bicycle path, bicycle lane or multi-use path in order
to cross it, shall yield the right-of-way to all other users.
      (4)   No operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard
shall allow passengers when the motorized skateboard is in operation or motion.
      (5)   No person operating or riding upon a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard shall attach himself or herself or the motorized
skateboard in any manner to any other vehicle.
      (6)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard while carrying any package, bundle or article which prevents the
operator from keeping both hands upon the steering mechanism at all times.
      (7)   No person, other than the owner, shall operate a motorized play
vehicle or motorized skateboard without the written permission of the owner.
      (8)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard that has been structurally altered from the original manufacturer’s
design.
      (9)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard in a crosswalk.
   (F)   Operating restrictions on roadway.
      (1)   A person operating a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard
on a roadway at less than the normal speed of traffic, at the time and place
and under the then existing conditions, shall ride as close as practicable to
the right-hand curb, edge of the roadway or edge of a designated bicycle path
or lane except under the following conditions and when the movement can be made
in safety:
         (a)   If overtaking and passing a vehicle proceeding in the same
direction;
         (b)   If preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a
private road or driveway;
         (c)   If reasonably necessary to avoid hazardous conditions ahead in
the roadway; or
         (d)   If the lane in which the person is operating the motorized play
vehicle or motorized skateboard is too narrow for a motorized play vehicle or
motorized skateboard and a bicycle or another vehicle to travel safely side by
side within the lane.
      (2)   No operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard
shall transport extra fuel in a separate container or alter the fuel reservoir
from the original manufacturer’s design. This includes the prohibition of
physically attaching fuel packs or containers to the operator’s person.
      (3)   Persons operating motorized play vehicles or motorized skateboards
on the roadway shall not ride more than two abreast.
   (G)   Required safety equipment.
      (1)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard without a head lamp emitting a beam and a red rear reflector anytime
from sunset to sunrise, or any other time when there is not sufficient light to
render clearly discernible persons or vehicles on the roadway.
         (a)   A head lamp shall emit a white light and be visible from the
front at a distance no less than 500 feet.
         (b)   A rear red reflector shall be visible when illuminated by a
vehicle head lamp from a distance of not less than 300 feet.
         (c)   A rear red lamp visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
may be used in addition to the rear red reflector.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard unless it is equipped with a brake which enables the operator to
make a braked wheel(s) skid on pavement.
      (3)   Any operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard
under the age of 18 years being operated on a roadway shall at all times wear a
protective helmet on his or her head in an appropriate and safely secured
manner. The helmet shall meet minimum standards of testing and safety inspected
by the bicycle industry.
      (4)   No person shall operate a motorized play vehicle or motorized
skateboard without wearing footwear. The footwear must have a sole and
completely cover the feet and toes.
      (5)   The operator of a motorized play vehicle or motorized skateboard
shall wear, at all times, protective glasses or goggles or a transparent face
shield of a type approved for motorcycle or motor-driven cycle use.
(1991 Code, § 12-2-17) (Ord. 145-2006, passed 3-14-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 72: PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Method of parking
   
72.02   Blocking traffic
   
72.03   Parking adjacent to schools
   
72.04   Authority to erect signs restricting parking
   
72.05   Parking vehicles on sidewalks
   
72.06   Parking or encroachments on Main Street
   
72.07   Restricted parking areas for the physically disabled
   
72.08   Abandoned vehicles
   
72.09   Parking restrictions in residential zones
   
72.10   Parking restrictions in fire lanes
§ 72.01 METHOD OF PARKING.
   Except as otherwise posted, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway
where there are adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked with the vehicle
parallel to and within 18 inches of the curb.
(1991 Code, § 12-3-1)
§ 72.02 BLOCKING TRAFFIC.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park any motor vehicle, or other
vehicle, upon a street in the town in a manner or under conditions as to leave
available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway for the free movement
of vehicular traffic, except that a person may stop temporarily, in the actual
loading or unloading of passengers, or when necessary, in the observance of
traffic signs or signals of a police officer.
   (B)   No person shall park a motor vehicle, or other vehicle, within an
alley or entrance to a private driveway except for the loading or unloading of
materials, and not then unless the loading or unloading can be accomplished
without blocking the alley to the free movement of vehicular traffic.
(1991 Code, § 12-3-2) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.03 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   When signs are erected indicating no parking on that side of the street
adjacent to any school property, no person shall park a vehicle in any thus
designated place for one hour before school opens until one hour after school
closes on any school day.
(1991 Code, § 12-3-3) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.04 AUTHORITY TO ERECT SIGNS RESTRICTING PARKING.
   The Town Manager, upon approval of the Council, may erect signs or provide
markings requiring parking at an angle to the curb, allowing parking on the
left-hand curb on one-way streets, notifying drivers that parking is prohibited
and restricting parking in any way that may be necessary. When the signs have
been erected or the markings provided, no person shall stop or stand a vehicle
in disobedience to the parking restrictions.
(1991 Code, § 12-3-4) (Ord. 109-98, passed 10-13-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.05 PARKING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall park any vehicle, whether in usable condition or not, nor
shall an owner permit his or her vehicle to be parked upon any sidewalk in the
town.
(1991 Code, § 12-3-5) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.06 PARKING OR ENCROACHMENTS ON MAIN STREET.
   (A)   No person shall park or leave standing a vehicle on Main Street within
the corporate limits of the town, in any manner other than at the curb of the
street and parallel thereto.
   (B)   No person shall park or leave standing a motor vehicle on Main Street
overnight or for a period longer than two hours during the daylight hours.
   (C)   No person shall encroach upon or make private use of Main Street, as
designated as right-of-way for U.S. Highway 70 to the State Department of
Transportation, from property line to property line for the full length of the
street within the corporate limits of the town.
(1991 Code, § 12-3-6) (Ord. 24, passed 10-19-1959) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.07 RESTRICTED PARKING AREAS FOR THE PHYSICALLY DISABLED.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle in a parking space set aside and
identified for use only by persons with physical disabilities, unless the
vehicle has displayed thereon a distinguishing insignia or numbered plates
bearing the international wheelchair symbol as provided in A.R.S. § 28-881.
   (B)   Division (A) of this section shall apply only to those parking spaces
identified with standard signs or other markers, as specified in A.R.S. § 28-
883.
(1991 Code, § 12-3-7) Penalty, see §
70.99
Editor’s note:
   Ordinance 47, passed January 19, 1981, contained an earlier version of this
material.
§ 72.08 ABANDONED VEHICLES.
   Any trailer, motor home, boat or other vehicle remaining parked upon any
street or right-of-way of the town for more than 72 hours is declared to be an
abandoned vehicle, and the police may remove the vehicle from the street at the
expense of the owner of the vehicle.
(1991 Code, § 12-3-8) (Ord. 106-1998, passed 7-21-1998) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.09 PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle of two and one-half tons or more in any
residential zone (R-1, R-2 or R-3).
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle transporting or a vehicle that has
transported hazardous materials in any residential zone.
(1991 Code, § 12-3-9) (Ord. 141-2006, passed 1-10-2006) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 72.10 PARKING RESTRICTIONS IN FIRE LANES.
   (A)   No person shall park any vehicle in a space or areas set aside and
identified as a fire lane by the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee is hereby authorized to
designate fire lanes on both public and private property.
   (C)   This section shall apply only to those areas that are identified with
signs stating “No Parking/Fire Lane/Town Code Section 72.10.” The Fire
Department through the Fire Chief or his or her designee shall determine the
location of all fire lanes and shall approve all fire lane signs and markings.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the owner of record of private property over
which the Fire Chief or his or her representative has designated a fire lane to
post, at the owner’s expense, approved signs prohibiting parking in the
designated fire lane. Such signs shall be so placed, and of sufficient number,
that at least one sign shall be visible to anyone attempting to park a vehicle
at any location in the fire lane. The failure to erect signs in accordance with
this division within 30 days of receipt of a notice from the Fire Department
specifying the designation of a space or area as a fire lane shall be a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 183-2018, passed 4-16-2018) Penalty, see §
70.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Regulations on keeping of pigs and reptiles
   
90.03   Housing
   
90.04   Restraint
Regulation of Dogs
   
90.20   Definitions
   
90.21   License required
   
90.22   Tags and collar
   
90.23   Running at large prohibited
   
90.24   Number of dogs permitted
   
90.25   Impounding and redemption
   
90.26   Disposing of unclaimed or infected dogs
   
90.27   Barking dogs
   
90.28   Disposing of biting dogs or other biting animals
   
90.29   Interference with officers
   
90.30   Muzzling proclamation
   
90.31   Ownership of habitually biting dogs
   
90.32   Liability for dog bites and property damage
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any horses, cows, mules, oxen, donkeys, pigs, sheep, goats, dogs and
cats.
   FOWL. Chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, pigeons, peacocks and peahens.
   REPTILES. All species of snakes and lizards, alligators and crocodiles.
   RODENTS. Rabbits, chinchillas, skunks and domestic rats.
(1991 Code, § 6-1-1) (Ord. 25, passed 2-20-1967)
§ 90.02 REGULATIONS ON KEEPING OF PIGS AND REPTILES.
   (A)   No pigs shall be kept within the town limits except registered
purebred miniature Vietnamese potbelly pigs and other similar registered
purebred miniature pigs. Miniature pigs shall not exceed 100 pounds in weight
and no more than two miniature pigs shall be allowed per household.
   (B)   The rules pertaining to the keeping of miniature pigs shall generally
follow the confinement requirements for dogs, which prohibits running at large
unless controlled by either a leash, cord, chain or other restraint, and the
same penalties shall apply for this type of violation.
   (C)   No poisonous reptiles shall be kept within the town limits.
   (D)   Large reptiles, such as python and boa constrictor snakes, alligators,
crocodiles and the like, which are capable of doing significant physical harm
to human life, should be kept in appropriate containment structures on the
premises. Additionally, some type of identification indicating that these type
of pets are being kept on the premises should be prominently displayed to alert
the public and emergency response staff, should they be called into service at
this location.
   (E)   State and federal laws pertaining to the capture and keeping of
reptiles, which are considered endangered, shall preempt local law.
Additionally, this section shall not apply to animal hospitals or medical
clinics where these type of animals may be kept for medical purposes for short
periods of time.
(1991 Code, § 6-1-2) (Ord. 97-1996, passed 12-17-1996) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 HOUSING.
   (A)   The premises upon which animals, fowl or rodents subject to this
subchapter are kept shall be maintained in a sanitary condition and subject to
inspection and regulation by the town, which shall have the right of entry upon
private property at reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.
   (B)   All enclosures referred to in this subchapter shall be kept in good
repair and in a condition to prevent the breeding of flies and other insects,
and so that no offensive, disagreeable or noxious smell or odor shall arise
therefrom to the injury, annoyance or inconvenience of any inhabitant of the
town.
(1991 Code, § 6-1-3) (Ord. 25, passed 2-20-1967) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 RESTRAINT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause or permit
any animal to run at large, to be pastured, herded, staked or tied in any
street, alley, lane, park or public place within the town.
   (B)   Any animal tied or staked upon private property shall be subject to
the limitation set forth in the zoning chapter of this code.
(1991 Code, § 6-1-4) (Ord. 25, passed 2-20-1967) Penalty, see §
10.99
REGULATION OF DOGS
§ 90.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner, and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family either by leash, cord, chain
or otherwise.
   DOG. Any member of the canine family, both male and female.
   NUISANCE. A dog that harms, injures or annoys any person by any means.
   OTHER BITING ANIMAL. Any animal capable of carrying or transferring rabies.
   OWNER. A person, firm, association or corporation owning, keeping or
harboring a dog or other biting animal.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-1) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 90.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   All dogs four months of age or older kept, harbored or maintained
within the corporate limits of the town shall be vaccinated against rabies by a
licensed veterinarian and then shall be licensed and registered.
   (B)   Dog licenses shall be issued by the Town Clerk upon the payment of an
amount as the Council may set by resolution from time to time for neutered or
spayed dogs or an amount as the Council may set by resolution from time to time
for non-neutered or non-spayed dogs on or after the first day of the year, and
the license shall expire on the last day of the year.
   (C)   Before a license is issued, the owner shall provide proof that the dog
has been vaccinated against rabies for the period for which the license is to
be issued.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to nonresidents temporarily within the
town, and a license shall be issued without charge to properly trained “seeing-
eye” dogs or companion dogs actually being used by blind persons for the
purpose of aiding them in going from place to place.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-2) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 90.22 TAGS AND COLLAR.
   Upon payment of the license tax, the Town Clerk shall issue to the owner a
license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog licensed. The metal tag
shall have stamped thereon the year for which it was issued and the number
corresponding with the number on the certificate. Every owner shall be required
to provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag must be affixed. In
case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will be issued by the Town
Clerk upon presentation of a receipt showing payment of the license tax for the
current year and payment of an amount as the Council may set by resolution from
time to time for the duplicate. Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog
to another, and no refunds shall be made on any dog license tax because of
death of the dog or the owner leaving town before expiration of the license
period.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-3) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 90.23 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No owner or keeper of any dog shall permit the dog to leave the premises of
the owner or keeper unless it is controlled by a leash, cord, chain or other
restraint. Any dog in violation of the aforesaid restrictions and upon
complaint by any person or in the judgment of any law enforcement officer or
animal control officer may be impounded or the owner of the dog may be cited
for violation of this section. Citations for violations of this section may be
issued by any law enforcement officer or animal control officer.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-4) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.24 NUMBER OF DOGS PERMITTED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall own or keep on his or her
premises more than two dogs over the age of four months.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall maintain a kennel where dogs are
kept for sale.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-5) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.25 IMPOUNDING AND REDEMPTION.
   Any dog impounded for running at large contrary to the conditions set forth
in §
90.23 shall be impounded in a suitable pound as may be designated by the
Council. The poundmaster will record the breed, color and sex of the dog and
license number, if licensed, and shall notify the owner, if known, by telephone
or by mail of the impoundment. The owner of any dog impounded may reclaim the
dog upon payment of license fee, if the license fee is unpaid, and all normal
charges for impounding and maintaining the dog. In addition, an impoundment
penalty fee will be charged. The impoundment penalty fee must be paid prior to
the animal being released from the pound. The impoundment penalty fee shall be
set by the Town Council and shall be paid to the Town Clerk or his or her
designate.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-6) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 90.26 DISPOSING OF UNCLAIMED OR INFECTED DOGS.
   It is the duty of the poundmaster to keep all dogs so impounded for a period
of three days, and if, at the expiration of three days from date of notice to
the owner, the dog has not been redeemed, it shall be destroyed. Any unlicensed
dog required by law to be licensed or any dog that appears to be suffering from
rabies or any other infectious disease or is of a dangerous or vicious nature
shall not be released but shall be destroyed.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-7) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 90.27 BARKING DOGS.
   No person shall keep or harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-8) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.28 DISPOSING OF BITING DOGS OR OTHER BITING ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful for any person to destroy or dispose of any dog or other
biting animal that has bitten any person for a period of seven days if the
animal has been vaccinated against rabies and ten days for animals not having
been vaccinated. When any dog or other biting animal bites any person, it shall
be impounded and quarantined in the designated town pound for a period of seven
days if the animal has been vaccinated against rabies, or ten days if the
animal has not been vaccinated, for observation for rabies. The owner shall be
responsible for any and all expenses incurred for the impoundment and
quarantine. A dog that has been vaccinated against rabies may be quarantined by
the owner in lieu of the town pound.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-9) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.29 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to break open the pound or
to attempt to do so, or to take from any officer any dog taken up by him or her
in compliance with this subchapter or in any manner to interfere with or hinder
the officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this subchapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to release or cause to be
released any dog from a town-owned animal trap. It is also unlawful for any
person to tamper with, damage or hinder the performance of the trap.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-10) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.30 MUZZLING PROCLAMATION.
   Whenever the prevalence of rabies renders the action necessary, to protect
the public health and safety, the Mayor shall issue a proclamation ordering
every person owning or keeping a dog to confine it securely on his or her
premises unless it is muzzled so that it cannot bite. No person shall violate
the proclamation, and any unmuzzled dog running at large during the time fixed
in the proclamation may be killed by the police without notice to the owner.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-11) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 90.31 OWNERSHIP OF HABITUALLY BITING DOGS.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep any dog within the town limits that
displays a habit of biting or otherwise being vicious with persons or other
animals. Any owner that knowingly owns such an animal may be cited for
violation of this section by any police officer or animal control officer.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-12) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.32 LIABILITY FOR DOG BITES AND PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   (A)   The owner of a dog that bites a person when the person is in or on a
public place or lawfully in or on a private place, including the property of
the owner of the dog, is liable for damages suffered by the person.
   (B)   The owner of a dog shall be liable for damages to real and personal
property caused by actions of the dog.
(1991 Code, § 6-2-13) (Ord. 84-1993, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING REGULATIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS
      
112.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER 110: BUSINESS LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Issuance of license
   
110.03   Payment
   
110.04   Posting of license
   
110.05   Exhibition of license required
   
110.06   License not transferable
   
110.07   Exemption
   
110.08   Fees
   
110.09   Revocation
   
110.10   Notice of hearing and appeal
§ 110.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to carry on any trade, calling,
profession, occupation or business without first having procured a license from
the town to do so and without complying with any and all regulations of the
trade, calling, profession, occupation or business as specified in this
chapter.
   (B)   Every applicant for a license shall submit a written application,
under oath, which shall state:
      (1)   The character of the business;
      (2)   The name, address and phone number of the principal place of
business and any branch office;
      (3)   The name, address and phone number of the principal residence of
the owner;
      (4)   Date business began operation in town; and
      (5)   Number of employees.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to prepare and issue a license under
this chapter for every person, firm, company or corporation liable to pay a
license fee hereunder, and to state in each license the amount charged, the
period of time covered, the name of the person, firm or corporation for whom
issued, the trade, calling, profession, occupation or business licensed and the
location or place of business where the trade, calling, profession, occupation
or business is to be conducted.
   (B)   In no case shall any mistake of the Clerk, in stating the amount of a
license, prevent or prejudice the collection for the town of what shall be
actually due from anyone carrying on a trade, calling, profession, occupation
or business, subject to license under this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-2)
§ 110.03 PAYMENT.
   (A)   All business license fees shall be paid at the office of the Clerk of
the town or in a manner as may be specified by the Clerk. Payment of license
fees shall be made for the calendar year, January 1 to December 31. Fees shall
be due and payable on January 1 of each year unless specified otherwise.
Notices shall be sent to each place of business or person at least 30 days
before January 1. Fees shall become delinquent March 1, and the Police Chief
shall be empowered and authorized to collect all delinquent fees together with
an amount as the Council may set by resolution from time to time.
   (B)   A separate license must be obtained for each branch establishment or
separate place of business in which any trade, calling, profession, occupation
or business is conducted. Each license shall authorize the person obtaining the
license to carry on, pursue or conduct only the trade, calling, profession,
occupation or business described in the license and only at the location or
place of business which is indicated.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-3) (Ord. 90-1995, passed 3-20-1995)
§ 110.04 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   Every person, firm, company or corporation having a license under the
provisions of this chapter and carrying on a trade, calling, profession,
occupation or business at a fixed place of business shall keep the license
posted and exhibited, while in force, in some conspicuous part of the place of
business. Every person having a license, and not having a fixed place of
business, shall carry the license with him or her at all times while carrying
on that trade, calling, profession, occupation or business for which the same
was granted. Every person, firm, company or corporation having a license under
the provisions of this chapter shall produce and exhibit the same, when
applying for a renewal thereof, and whenever requested to do so by any police
officer or by any other officer authorized to issue, inspect or collect
licenses.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-4)
§ 110.05 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   The Chief of Police or any duly authorized official of the town shall have
the power to enter free of charge at any time any place of business for which a
license is required by this chapter, and to demand the exhibition of the
license for the current term, from any person engaged or employed in the
transaction of the business. It is unlawful for the person to fail to exhibit
the license when requested to do so.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license granted or issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
in any manner assignable or transferable to any other person, firm, company or
corporation other than is herein mentioned or named without first obtaining
permission from the Council.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-6)
§ 110.07 EXEMPTION.
   Any person wishing to sell any form of agricultural products produced by
himself or herself shall be exempt from any license tax imposed hereunder for
the privilege of selling those products only. Before receiving the exemption,
an affidavit of the facts entitling the seller to an exemption must be filed
with the Clerk.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-7)
§ 110.08 FEES.
   All businesses, occupations, professions, trades or callings shall pay
annually a license fee of an amount as the Council may set by resolution from
time to time.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 REVOCATION.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the
Town Clerk after notice of hearing, for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (C)   Conducting a trade, business, game or amusement, calling, profession
or occupation in violation of state law.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-9) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 NOTICE OF HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)    Notice of the hearing for revocation of license shall be given, in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of complaint and the time and
place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, certified
mail to the licensee at the address shown on the application for license at
least ten days prior to the date set for hearing.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the denial of an application for license as
provided herein or the decision with reference to the revocation of a license
shall have the right of appeal to the Council. The appeal shall be taken by
filing with the Council, within 14 days after notice of the action complained
of has been mailed to the person’s address shown on the application for
license, a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for the appeal.
The Council shall set a time and place for a hearing on the appeal and notice
of the hearing shall be given to the applicant in the same manner as provided
for notice of hearing on revocation. The decision and order of the Council in
the appeal shall be final and conclusive, except any person aggrieved may
pursue any proper judicial proceedings.
(1991 Code, § 8-1-10)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required; renewals; restrictions
   
111.03   Application and application fee
   
111.04   Investigation of applicant; issuance of license
   
111.05   Fees
   
111.06   Bond required
   
111.07   License to be posted
   
111.08   Location restrictions
   
111.09   Noise; hours of operation
   
111.10   Signs to be observed
   
111.11   Enforcement by Police Department
   
111.12   Suspension and revocation of license; appeal
   
111.13   Exemptions
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the town or not, traveling by
foot, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance from place to place, from
house to house or from street to street, carrying, conveying or transporting
goods, wares, merchandise, meat, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden truck, farm
products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale or making sales
and delivering articles to purchasers or who, without traveling from place to
place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a motor vehicle, railroad car
or other vehicle or conveyance, or from a fixed location on foot; and further
provided that one who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes
delivery to purchasers as a part of the scheme or design to evade the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a PEDDLER subject to the provisions
contained in this chapter.
   SOLICITOR or CANVASSER. Any individual, whether a resident of the town or
not, traveling either by foot, motor vehicle or any other type of conveyance,
from place to place, from house to house or from street to street, taking or
attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and merchandise, personal
property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether he or she is collecting advance
payments on the sales or not, provided that the definition shall include any
person who, for himself, herself or for another person, hires, leases, uses or
occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the town for the sole
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person,
whether owner or otherwise, whether a resident of the town or not, who engages
in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise
within the town, and who, in furtherance of that purpose, hires, leases, uses
or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent, railroad boxcar,
boat, public room in a hotel, lodging house, apartment, shop or any street or
other place within the town, for the exhibition and sale of the goods, wares
and merchandise, either privately or at public auction; provided, that the
definition shall not be construed to include any person, firm or corporation
who, while occupying that temporary location, does not sell from stock, but
exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery
only. The person so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the
provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any
local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer or by conducting the transient
business in connection with, as a part of or in the name of any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-1) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; RENEWALS; RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, canvasser, transient
merchant, itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor as the same is herein defined,
to engage in the business within the corporate limits of the town without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
provided, however, that the provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the
producers of agricultural products as defined in A.R.S. §§ 3-561 through 3-563,
or to any member of the family or agents or persons in the service of the
producer when the agricultural products are sold or disposed of on behalf of
and for the benefit of the producer.
   (B)   Licenses which are continually renewed shall pay only the applicable
fees prescribed in §
111.05. Licenses which are not continuously renewed, upon application for
renewal, shall be treated as an original application.
   (C)   If the license of the licensee has been revoked pursuant to provisions
of §
111.12, the Town Clerk shall designate a period of time not exceeding three
years, during which time a renewal or a new license may not be issued to the
same licensee or to a corporation controlled by that licensee. Unless otherwise
specified by the Town Clerk, the period of disqualification shall be the
maximum three-year period.
   (D)   No licensee shall knowingly permit a person whose license is under
suspension or has been revoked to be employed in any capacity by the licensee
during the period of suspension or the period of time that a renewal or new
license may not be issued to the person pursuant to provisions of division (C)
of this section.
   (E)   Every licensee whose license has been revoked may be disqualified from
obtaining or retaining a privilege tax license for a period of up to one year
from the date of the revocation.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-2) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION AND APPLICATION FEE.
   (A)   Applicants for a license under this chapter shall file with the Town
Clerk a sworn application in writing on a form to be furnished by the Town
Clerk, which shall contain but not necessarily be limited to the following
information:
      (1)   Name and description of the applicant;
      (2)   Address (legal and local);
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and goods to be
sold and, in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown
by the applicant;
      (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (6)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together
with license number or other means of identification;
      (7)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be two
inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear
and distinguishing manner;
      (8)   The fingerprints of the applicant, the names of at least two
reliable property owners of the town, who will certify as to the applicant’s
good character and business responsibility, or in lieu of the names of
references, any other available evidence as to the good character and business
responsibility of the applicant as will enable an investigator to properly
evaluate the character and business responsibility; and
      (9)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal laws, the nature of the
offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   (B)   No license issued hereunder shall be transferable. At the time of
filing the application, a fee of an amount as the Council may set by resolution
from time to time shall be paid to the Town Clerk, no part of which shall be
refunded.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-3) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 111.04 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of the application, the Town Clerk shall cause an investigation
of the person’s business responsibility or moral character to be made as he or
she deems necessary to the protection of the health, safety and welfare of the
public. If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s business
responsibility and character are found to be unsatisfactory, the application
shall be denied. If, as a result of the investigation, the character and
business reputation appear to be satisfactory, and if a privilege license as
set forth in the Town Tax Code is required by the nature of the business the
applicant desires to carry on, and has been obtained by the applicant, a
license shall be issued by the Town Clerk upon payment of the required fee.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-4) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 111.05 FEES.
   The license fee for any peddler, solicitor, canvasser or transient merchant
shall be an amount as the Council may set by resolution from time to time per
quarter if paid on a quarterly basis, or an amount as the Council may set by
resolution from time to time per year if paid on an annual basis. All fees
shall be paid in advance.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-5) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 111.06 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before any license as provided in this chapter shall be issued for
engaging in the business of peddler, solicitor, canvasser or transient
merchant, as defined in this chapter, every applicant, plying his or her trade
as an individual, shall file with the Town Clerk a surety bond running to the
town in the amount of $1,000. Every business, firm, company or corporation,
which has employees or agents acting in the capacity of peddler, solicitor,
canvasser or transient merchant, shall file with the Town Clerk a blanket
surety bond covering all those employees or agents and running to the town in
the amount of $5,000.
   (B)   Every bond for those engaging in a transient or an itinerant business
or as a peddler, solicitor or canvasser as defined in this chapter shall be
executed by the applicant as principal with at least one surety upon which
service of process may be made in this state. The bond shall be approved by the
Town Attorney, conditioned that the applicant and all of the applicant’s agents
and employees shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the laws of the
town and the state statutes regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares
and merchandise and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for
any violation, together with all judgments and costs that may be recovered
against him or her by any person for damage arising out of any
misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person transacting any business
with the applicant, whether the misrepresentations or deceptions were made or
practiced by the applicant or its agents or employees, either at the time of
making a sale or through any advertising of any nature whatsoever, printed or
circulated with reference to the goods, wares, merchandise sold or any part
thereof. In addition, if the applicant is a solicitor or canvasser, the bond
shall be conditioned that the applicant and all of the applicant’s agents and
employees shall comply fully with all of the provisions of the laws of the town
and the state statutes regulating and concerning the business of solicitor or
canvasser and guaranteeing to any citizen of the town that all money paid as a
down payment will be accounted for and applied according to the representations
of the solicitor or canvasser, and further guaranteeing any citizen of the
town, doing business with the solicitor or canvasser, that the property
purchased will be delivered according to the representations of the solicitor
or canvasser.
   (C)   Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the town to the use
of the aggrieved person or directly by the aggrieved person.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-6) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 111.07 LICENSE TO BE POSTED.
   The license issued to the licensee pursuant to this chapter by the Town
Clerk shall be posted in a conspicuous place if the licensee is using a vehicle
or building in his or her business and otherwise must be kept by the person and
exhibited at any time upon request.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-7) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 111.08 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No licensee hereunder shall have any exclusive right to any location
in a public street, nor shall any be permitted a stationary location thereon,
nor within 300 feet of a public school ground, nor shall any be permitted to
operate in any congested area where operations might impede or inconvenience
the public. For the purposes of this chapter, the judgment of a police officer,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public impeded or inconvenienced.
   (B)   No business activity shall be carried on in any area of the town by
any licensee who is licensed pursuant to this chapter, where the business
activity is prohibited by the town zoning code.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-8) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 NOISE; HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Licensees, agents and employees of licensees and persons acting on behalf of
licensees shall not yell, shout, cry out, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any
sound-amplifying devices such as loudspeakers, microphones, radios, sound-
amplifying systems or any other similar devices for the purpose of attracting
attention to any goods wares or merchandise, if the sound emitted or produced
is of sufficient volume that it can be plainly heard upon the public
thoroughfares. Licensees, agents and employees of licensees shall not conduct
any business activities between the hour of 8:00 p.m. of any day and the hour
of 8:00 a.m. of the following day.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-9) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 SIGNS TO BE OBSERVED.
   It is unlawful for any peddler, solicitor, canvasser or transient merchant
in the course of business to ring the doorbell or knock at any building whereon
a sign bearing the words “No Peddlers or Solicitors” or a similar message is
exposed to public view.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-10) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.11 ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the town to enforce this
chapter. The Chief of Police shall report to the Town Clerk all violations of
this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-11) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 111.12 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   (A)   The Town Clerk shall immediately suspend the license and give the
licensee notice by registered mail of the suspension and of a hearing to be
held within ten days to determine whether or not the permit should be revoked,
whenever the Town Clerk has reason to believe that any licensee is guilty of
any of the following acts:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his or her business;
      (3)   Violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      (5)   Conducting business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public; and
      (6)   Failure to file an additional surety bond as required by §
111.06, within ten days after the liability of the surety on the previous bond
has been exhausted.
   (B)   The notice shall contain a statement of the purported reason for the
suspension. At the hearing, the licensee shall have the right to be represented
by counsel, to introduce witnesses on his or her behalf and at his or her own
expense, and to have the testimony given at the hearing transcribed. Within the
next three days after the hearing, if the Town Clerk determines that there is a
good and sufficient reason for revocation of the licensee’s license, the Town
Clerk shall enter an order revoking the license effective immediately and
notify the licensee by registered mail.
   (C)   Within five days, excluding weekends and legal holidays, an applicant
for a license or a licensee may appeal to the Council, from either the refusal
of the Town Clerk to issue a license under this chapter or from the revocation
of any license granted in accordance with this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-12) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984)
§ 111.13 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Any person whose activities are regulated exclusively by this state
shall be exempted from the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person selling subscriptions for delivery of newspapers to the
door of a residence on a regular or weekly schedule shall be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any organization operated exclusively for educational, religious,
charitable public service, fraternal or other nonprofit purposes and having a
permanent address within the confines of this county may be exempted from the
provisions of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 8-2-13) (Ord. 54, passed 8-20-1984)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Grant of license
License Terms
   
112.15   Liability; indemnification
   
112.16   Installations
   
112.17   Use of streets
   
112.18   Assignment
   
112.19   Insurance required
   
112.20   Rules and regulations
   
112.21   Television receivers; prohibition
   
112.22   Fee to town
   
112.23   Compliance with license terms
   
112.24   Effect of license
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRANTEE. Any cable company within whom the town contracts to provide cable
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   PROPERTY. All rights and contracts of whatsoever kind, and all poles, wires,
cables, apparatus and other appliances, appurtenances and fixtures owned by the
licensee and located within the corporate limits of the town.
(1991 Code, § 15-1-1) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.02 GRANT OF LICENSE.
   (A)   There is hereby granted to the grantee the right, privilege and
authority to construct, lay, maintain and operate and remove a system of poles,
wires, conduits and other fixtures in, upon, across, along and under and over
the streets, alleys, parkways, easements, public grounds and other places in
the town for the purpose of constructing, maintaining and operating a cable
television system in the town.
   (B)   The non-exclusive license herein shall not be construed and it is not
the intention of the town that the rights herein granted shall be exclusive.
Any and all other licenses, if any, for cable television service shall be
granted on the same or similar terms.
(1991 Code, § 15-1-2) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
LICENSE TERMS
§ 112.15 LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION.
   The grantee shall defend the town against all lawful claims for injury to
any person or property caused by the negligence of the grantee in the
construction or operation of its property, and in the event of a determination
of liability, shall indemnify the town. More particularly the grantee herein,
its successors and assigns, does hereby agree to indemnify and hold harmless
the town from any and all liability, claim, demand or judgment growing out of
any injury to any person or property as a result of the violation or failure on
the part of the grantee, its successors or assigns, to observe their proper
duty or because of negligence in whole or in part arising out of construction,
repair, extension, maintenance or operation of its distributing lines,
amplifiers or equipment of any kind or character used in connection with this
authorization.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-1) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.16 INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   The grantee shall at all times make and keep full and complete plats,
maps and records showing the exact location of all poles, wires, guy poles, guy
wires, amplifiers and all construction upon the streets, parkways and other
public places in the town.
   (B)   All of the installations shall be of a permanent nature, durable and
of sufficient height not to interfere in any manner with the rights of the
public or individual property owners and shall not interfere with the travel
and use of public places by the public nor during the construction, repair and
removal shall not obstruct nor impede traffic unduly. The town reserves the
right of reasonable regulation of the erection and construction of any work by
the grantee and to reasonably designate where the works and construction shall
be placed. The grantee agrees that, when requested by the town to make minor
changes in its distribution system, in wires, poles or apparatus to conform to
the reasonably necessary requirements of small localized areas, the changes
will be effected when so requested within a reasonable time.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-2) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.17 USE OF STREETS.
   (A)   The grantee shall have the non-exclusive right to furnish and
distribute television signals during the existence of this permit to all public
and private customers and shall have the right to extend its lines upon the
streets, alleys, easements and public grounds of any addition hereafter made in
the town’s corporate limits and to use the streets, alleys, easements and
public grounds to continue the television signals to points beyond the
corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   The grantee shall restore any street or alley which might be excavated
or damaged to any extent by its operations to the condition in which the street
or alley existed prior to the excavation or damage as soon as is practicable
thereafter. In the event that, at any time during the period of this non-
exclusive license, the town shall lawfully elect to alter or change the grade
of any street, alley or other public way, the grantee shall upon reasonable
notice by the town remove, relay and relocate its poles, wires, cables,
underground conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-3) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.18 ASSIGNMENT.
   The grantee shall have the right to assign this authorization upon delivery
of a copy of the assignment to the Mayor of the town.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-4) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.19 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The grantee shall, at all times during the existence of this license,
carry and require its contractors to carry insurance as follows:
      (1)   Worker’s compensation insurance in accordance with the laws of this
state, and amendments thereto;
      (2)   Bodily injury liability insurance with limits of $500,000, each
person, and $300,000, each occurrence; and
      (3)   Property damage liability insurance with limits of $1,000,000 each
accident and $2,000,000 aggregate.
   (B)   The insurance described in divisions (A)(2) and (3) of this section
shall also provide contractual liability coverage satisfactory to the town with
respect to all liabilities assumed by grantee under the provisions of this
agreement. The town shall notify the grantee’s representative in the town
within 30 days after the presentation of any claim or demand, either by suit or
otherwise, made against the town on account of any negligence as aforesaid on
the part of the grantee.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-5) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.20 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The grantee shall have the authority to promulgate rules, regulations, terms
and conditions of its business as shall be reasonably necessary to enable the
grantee to exercise its rights and perform its services under this non-
exclusive license and to assure an uninterrupted service to each and all its
customers.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-6) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.21 TELEVISION RECEIVERS; PROHIBITION.
   Grantee, its agents, employees and assigns shall not engage in the rental,
repair or sale of television receivers, either directly or indirectly.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-7) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.22 FEE TO TOWN.
   In consideration for the rights, privileges and non-exclusive license hereby
granted and as compensation to the town for the use of its public ways and
places by the grantee, and in lieu of all occupation and license or other
taxes, the grantee shall on or before the first day of January and the last day
of July each year in which this non-exclusive license is effective pay to the
town a sum equal to 2% of the receipts derived from the collection of monthly
service fees paid by subscribers residing within the town. The fee shall be
levied as a tax upon grantee in lieu of all other license or permit fees. The
grantee shall render a sworn statement of the receipts received under this non-
exclusive license and deliver the same to the Town Clerk simultaneously with
its payments. The town shall have the authority to audit the books and records
of the grantee’s operation within the town under this non-exclusive license
upon request and prior notice during normal business hours.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-8) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.23 COMPLIANCE WITH LICENSE TERMS.
   Failure or refusal to observe the terms and provisions of this non-exclusive
license by the grantee, its successors or assigns shall entitle the town to
forfeit and terminate this non-exclusive license and all rights thereunder, and
the town may exercise these rights 90 days after service of notice upon grantee
of failure to observe the terms thereof and upon refusal during the 90-day
period to perform or act or commence to perform or act as required by the non-
exclusive license, after the failure or violation of the terms and provisions
hereof.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-9) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
§ 112.24 EFFECT OF LICENSE.
   All provisions of law provided and prescribed for the granting of this non-
exclusive license shall be binding upon the grantee and all successors and
assigns of the grantee, whether expressly stated herein or not, and all rights,
authorities, powers, grants and privileges secured by this nonexclusive license
to the grantee shall be held to inure to the benefit of the grantee and all
successors and assigns of the grantee.
(1991 Code, § 15-2-10) (Ord. 58, passed 10-19-1987)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   PROVIDING A LOCATION FOR AN UNLAWFUL MINOR PARTY OR GATHERING
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Dangerous constructions
   
130.02   Excavations
   
130.03   Explosives
   
130.04   Fireworks
   
130.05   Minors; curfew
   
130.06   Noise
   
130.07   Nuisance
   
130.08   Obstruction of view
   
130.09   Offensive premises
   
130.10   Spirituous liquor in town parks
   
130.11   Minors carrying or possessing firearms
   
130.12   Obscene conduct
   
130.13   False and fraudulent acts prohibited
   
130.14   Acts relative to police officers
   
130.15   Possession/use of a laser pointing device
   
130.16   Sale of products containing pseudoephedrine
   
130.17   Smoking in town parks
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Social host ordinance, see
Ch. 131
§ 130.01 DANGEROUS CONSTRUCTIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to situate, construct or maintain any signs,
billboards, awnings and other similar structures over or near streets,
sidewalks, public grounds or places frequented by the public, in a manner as to
endanger the public safety.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-1) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to excavate, dig or produce in any
manner or cause to be made any opening, displacement, depression or impairment
of the surface of any public place or public thoroughfare without first making
application for a permit from the town.
   (B)   The work of excavating shall be under the supervision and direction of
an employee designated by the Town Manager.
   (C)   The applicant shall be liable for all damages to persons or property
caused by the excavating and shall hold the town harmless for any damages
incurred in performance of the work specified.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to make any excavation or dig any hole,
drain or ditch in any highway or thoroughfare in the town without providing a
sufficient light at night and a temporary fence or suitable obstruction around
the excavation to protect the public during the day.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain a well, cellar, pit or other
excavation of more than two feet in depth on any unenclosed lot, without
substantial curbing, covering or protection.
   (F)   Any person authorized to excavate in any public place, public road,
street, alley, right-of-way or public thoroughfare shall, as soon as is
practicable, but in no event later than 30 days after completion of the
excavation, restore the public place, public road, street, alley, right-of-way
or public thoroughfare to at least the same condition as existed prior to the
excavation; provided, however, in the event necessary for the public safety,
the town may, by written notice, require that the public place, public road,
street, alley, right-of-way or public thoroughfare be restored in less than 30
days.
   (G)   In the event the person making the excavation has made a good faith
attempt to restore the public place, public road, street, alley, right-of-way
or public thoroughfare to at least the condition as existed prior to the
excavation, but has done so in a manner unsatisfactory to the town, the town
shall, by certified mail, notify the grantee, licensee or other responsible
party of its failure to properly restore the public place, public road, street,
alley, right-of-way or public thoroughfare, setting forth what actions must be
taken to properly restore the public place, public road, street, alley, right-
of-way or public thoroughfare to its previous condition and the time in which
the actions must be taken.
   (H)   If the restoration required by divisions (F) or (G) of this section is
not timely performed, the town may perform the work necessary to restore the
public place, public road, street, alley, right-of-way or public thoroughfare
to its previous condition and charge the expense of the restoration to the
responsible grantee, licensee or other responsible party.
   (I)   For the purposes of this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, EXCAVATION means any operation in which earth, rock or other material
in the ground is moved, removed or otherwise displaced by means or use of any
tools, equipment or explosives, and includes without limitation grading,
trenching, digging, ditching, drilling, auguring, tunneling, scraping, cable or
pipe plowing and driving.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-2) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person within the limits of the town to keep or
use a highly explosive substance without a written permit from the Police
Chief.
   (B)   Persons who keep, use or transport their own ammunition or reloading
supplies, solely for sporting purposes, shall be exempt from these provisions.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-3) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSUMER FIREWORK. Those fireworks defined by A.R.S. § 36-1601.
      DISPLAY FIREWORK. Those fireworks defined by A.R.S. § 36-1601.
      FIREWORKS. Any combustible or explosive composition, substance or
combination of substances, or any article prepared for the purpose of producing
a visible or audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration or
detonation, that is a consumer firework, display firework or permissible
consumer firework as defined by A.R.S. § 36-1601.
      NOVELTY ITEMS. Federally deregulated novelty items that are known as
snappers, snap caps, party poppers, glow worms, snakes, toy smoke devices,
sparklers and certain toys as defined in A.R.S. § 36-1601.
      PERMISSIBLE CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Those fireworks as defined by A.R.S. §
36-1601 that may be sold within the town even where the use of those items has
been prohibited.
      SUPERVISED PUBLIC DISPLAY. A monitored performance of display fireworks
open to the public and authorized by permit by the Fire Chief or his or her
designee.
   (B)   Fireworks prohibited; exceptions.
      (1)   The use, discharge or ignition of fireworks within the town is
prohibited.
      (2)   Nothing in this section or chapter shall be construed to prohibit
the use, discharge or ignition of novelty items or the occurrence of a
supervised public display of fireworks.
      (3)   Permits may be granted by the Fire Chief or designee for conducting
a properly supervised public display of fireworks. Every public display of
fireworks shall be of a character and so located, discharged or fired, only
after proper inspection and in a manner that does not endanger persons, animals
or property. A permit shall not be issued, and may be revoked, during time
periods of high fire danger warnings. The Fire Chief has authority to impose
conditions on any permits granted.
      (4)   Failure to comply with any permit requirements issued by the Fire
Chief is a civil offense punishable by fines as set forth in §
130.99.
   (C)   Sale of fireworks.
      (1)   No person shall sell or permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks to a person who is under 16 years of age.
      (2)   No person shall sell or permit or authorize the sale of permissible
consumer fireworks in conflict with state law.
   (D)   Posting of signs by persons engaged in the sale of fireworks; civil
penalty.
      (1)   Prior to the sale of permissible consumer fireworks, every person
engaged in those sales shall prominently display signs indicating the
following:
         (a)   The use of fireworks, except novelty items as defined by this
town code, including permissible consumer fireworks is prohibited; and
         (b)   Consumer fireworks authorized for sale under state law may not
be sold to persons under the age of 16.
      (2)   Signs required under this section shall be placed at each cash
register and in each area where fireworks are displayed for sale.
      (3)   The Fire Chief along with the Building Inspector or designee shall
develop regulations concerning the size and color of the required signs and
shall develop a model sign. The required sign regulations and model sign shall
be posted on the town’s website and filed with the Clerk’s office.
      (4)   Failure to comply with divisions (D)(1)(a) and (b) of this section
is a civil offense punishable as set forth in §
130.99.
   (E)   Authority to enforce violations of this section; means of enforcement.
      (1)   The Fire Chief or designee, a town police officer or the Town
Attorney may issue civil complaints to enforce violations of this section
designated as civil offenses.
      (2)   Any person authorized pursuant to this section to issue a civil
complaint may also issue a notice of violation specifying actions to be taken
and the time in which they are to be taken to avoid issuance of a civil or
criminal complaint.
      (3)   A town police officer or the Town Attorney may issue criminal
complaints to enforce this article.
   (F)   Liability for emergency responses related to use of fireworks;
definitions.
      (1)   A person who uses, discharges or ignites permissible consumer
fireworks, fireworks or anything that is designed or intended to rise into the
air and explode or to detonate in the air or to fly above the ground, is liable
for the expenses of any emergency response that is required by that use,
discharge or ignition. The fact that a person is convicted or found responsible
for a violation(s) of this section is prima facie evidence of liability under
this section.
      (2)   The expenses of an emergency response are a charge against the
person liable for those expenses pursuant to division (A) of this section. The
charge constitutes a debt of that person and may be collected proportionately
by the public agencies, for-profit entities or not-for-profit entities that
incurred the expenses. The person’s liability for the expense of an emergency
response shall not exceed the actual cost of the call for a single incident.
The liability imposed under this section is in addition to and not in
limitation of any other liability that may be imposed.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. Reasonable costs directly incurred
by public agencies, for-profit entities or not-for-profit entities that make an
appropriate emergency response to an incident.
         REASONABLE COSTS. Includes the costs of providing police,
firefighting, rescue and emergency medical services at the scene of an incident
and the salaries of the persons who respond to the incident.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-4) (Ord. 162-2011, passed 1-10-2011) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 MINORS; CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ADULT. A person 18 years of age or older.
      CURFEW. The hours between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      GUARDIAN. An adult having legal custody of a minor.
      MINOR. A person 17 years of age or younger.
   (B)   Unlawful conduct.
      (1)   A minor shall not be upon any of the streets, alleys or public
places in the town during curfew.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor shall not permit the minor to be
upon any of the streets, alleys or public places in the town during curfew. It
shall not constitute a defense that a parent or guardian had no knowledge of a
minor’s violation of division (B)(1) of this section.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   A minor who violates this section shall be referred to Juvenile
Court pursuant to A.R.S. Title 8, Chapter 2.
      (2)   An adult who violates this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-5) (Ord. 63, passed 11-21-1988) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 NOISE.
   (A)   In general. It is unlawful for a person to create, assist in creating,
permit, continue or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing
or unnecessary noise in the town that produces annoyance, inconvenience,
discomfort or hurt to any person, or to the enjoyment of property or comfort of
any person, or affects the health, safety or morale of the public.
      (1)   The following, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section, but any enumeration herein
shall not be deemed to be exclusive:
         (a)   The playing or permitting to be played of any music or musical
instrument whether played by individuals, orchestra, radio, phonograph, music
box or other mechanical device or means in such a loud or unusual manner as to
be offensive to the senses, or so as to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
persons in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence;
         (b)   The use of any vehicle, engine or motor of whatever size,
stationary or moving, instrument, construction equipment, device or thing, in a
manner as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, pounding
or other noise;
         (c)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
long, continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in
the vicinity; or
         (d)   A person who, acting individually or as a group, creates verbal
or other noises in a manner which disturbs the peace, quiet or tranquility of a
residential neighborhood, apartment complex or other residential area; or
operation of any sound amplification device mounted on or inside a motor
vehicle in a manner which disturbs the peace, quiet and tranquility of a
residential neighborhood, apartment complex or other residential area.
      (2)   For the purposes of this section, it shall be prima facie evidence
of a violation of this section if any of the above noises are made, created or
produced in any residential area between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   Vehicle noise.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle which
shall not at all times be equipped with a muffler upon the exhaust thereof in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise; and it is unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to use a
cut-out, by-pass or similar muffler elimination appliance.
      (2)   Any time a police officer has reasonable cause to believe that a
vehicle is not equipped as required by law, or that its equipment is not in
proper adjustment or repair, the officer will take appropriate action within
the guidelines of A.R.S. §§ 28-981, 28-982 and 28-983, and any later amendments
or revisions thereto.
   (C)   Punishment. Any act in violation of division (A) or (B) of this
section is hereby declared to be a loud and unnecessary noise. Violations shall
be subject to the provisions of §
130.99.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-6) (Ord. 68, passed 8-20-1990) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 NUISANCE.
   (A)   Anything which is injurious to health, or is indecent or offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property by an entire community or
neighborhood, or which unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the
customary manner, of any public park, square, alley, sidewalk, street or
highway is a public nuisance, and is no less a nuisance because the extent of
the annoyance or damage inflicted is unequal.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or commit a public nuisance,
or to willfully omit to perform any legal duty relating to the removal of a
public nuisance.
   (C)   A public nuisance may be abated by order of the Town Court.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-7) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 OBSTRUCTION OF VIEW.
   It is unlawful for any person to maintain or allow any tree, hedge,
billboard or other obstruction which prevents persons driving vehicles on
public streets, alleys or highways from obtaining a clear view of traffic when
approaching an intersection or pedestrian crosswalk.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-8) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 OFFENSIVE PREMISES.
   It is unlawful for any person to suffer, or permit any premises belonging to
or occupied by him or her, or any cellar, privy, vault, pool, sewer, septic
tank or private drain therein to become nauseous, foul or offensive to the
senses or prejudicial to the public health or comfort.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-9) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR IN TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   Spirituous beverages prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to
possess or consume spirituous beverages on the premises of the Town Little
League Ball Park, the Town Park located at Reay Lane and Highway 70 or the
Daley Estates Park.
   (B)   Duty of police officers to enforce. It shall be the duty of any police
officer of the town to enforce this section. The Chief of Police shall report
to the Town Clerk all violations of this section.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DALEY ESTATES PARK.  Those premises:
Beginning at the northwest corner of Section 26, Township 7 South, Range 25
East of the Gila and Salt River Base and Meridian, Graham County, Arizona;
running thence south 0 degrees 13' 13" west, along the west line of said
Section 26, a distance of 120.00 feet to the true point of beginning;
Thence south 89 degrees 43' 57" east, 25.00 feet to the southwest corner of Lot
14, Daley’s Country Club Estates, Unit II, according to File No. 4, D-2,
Records of Graham County, Arizona;
Thence south 0 degrees 13' 13" west, 80.00 feet;
Thence south 89 degrees 43' 57" east, 292.00 feet;
Thence south 0 degrees 13' 13" west, 195.00 feet;
Thence north 89 degrees 43' 57" west, 317.00 feet to the west line of said
Section 26;
Thence north 0 degrees 13' 13" east, along said west line of Section 26, a
distance of 275.00 feet to the true point of beginning.
      SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. Alcohol, brandy, whiskey, rum, tequila, mescal, gin,
wine, porter, ale, beer, any malt liquor, malt beverage, absinthe or compound
or a mixture of any of them, or any of them with any vegetable or other
substance, alcohol bitters, bitters containing alcohol, and any liquid mixture
or preparation, whether patented or otherwise, which produces intoxication,
fruits preserved in ardent spirits and beverages containing more than 0.5% of
alcohol by volume.
      TOWN LITTLE LEAGUE PARK. Those premises located within the southwest
quarter of Section 11 or the southeast quarter of Section 10, all in Township 7
South, Range 25 East, and adjoining the Town Cemetery, used for the purpose of
baseball, softball, tennis or similar activities. Includes a regular park,
playground equipment, armadas, splash park and the like.
      TOWN PARK. Those premises located within that part of the southeast
quarter of Section 3, Township 7 South, Range 25 East of the Gila and Salt
River Base and Meridian, Town of Thatcher, Graham County, Arizona, more
particularly described as follows:
Commencing at the east quarter corner of said Section 3;
Thence south 00 degrees 14' 10" west a distance of 1054.42 feet to the point of
beginning:
Thence south 00 degrees 14' 10" west a distance of 326.57 feet to the northerly
right-of-way of U.S. Highway 70;
Thence south 89 degrees 45' 05" west, along said right-of-way, a distance of
231.28 feet to the TS of a spiral curve;
Thence north 88 degrees 51' 53" west, along the chord of said spiral curve
whose a=1/3 and Ls=500 feet, a distance of 496.25 feet to a point of curve;
Thence along a curve to the right having a radius of 3,387.75 feet, a central
angle of 001 degrees 33' 44", an arc length of 92.37 feet, and a chord which
bears north 85 degrees 18' 03" west to a point on a line;
Then north 00 degrees 20' 10" east, leaving said right-of-way, a distance of
304.56 feet;
Thence south 89 degrees 45' 50" east a distance of 447.10 feet;
Thence north 00 degrees 14' 10" east a distance of 9.00 feet;
Thence south 89 degrees 45' 50" east a distance of 371.92 feet to the point of
beginning.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-10) (Ord. 60, passed 9-19-1988; Ord. 66, passed 11-20-1989)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 MINORS CARRYING OR POSSESSING FIREARMS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (B) of this section, an unemancipated
person who is under 18 years of age and who is unaccompanied by a parent,
grandparent or guardian, or a certified hunter safety instructor or certified
firearms safety instructor acting with the consent of the unemancipated
person’s parent or guardian, shall not knowingly carry or possess on his or her
person, within his or her immediate control, or in or on a means of
transportation a firearm in any place that is open to the public or on any
street or highway or on any private property except private property owned or
leased by the minor or the minor’s parent, grandparent or guardian.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a person who is 14, 15, 16 or 17 years
of age and is any of the following:
      (1)   Engaged in lawful hunting or shooting events or marksmanship
practice at established ranges or other areas where the discharge of a firearm
is not prohibited;
      (2)   Engaged in lawful transportation of an unloaded firearm for the
purpose of lawful hunting;
      (3)   Engaged in lawful transportation of an unloaded firearm between the
hours of 5:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. for the purpose of shooting events or
marksmanship practice at established ranges or other areas where the discharge
of a firearm is not prohibited; or
      (4)   Engaged in activities requiring the use of a firearm that are
related to the production of crops, livestock, poultry, livestock products,
poultry products, or ratites or in the production or storage of agricultural
commodities.
   (C)   If the minor is not exempt under division (B) of this section and is
in possession of a firearm, a peace officer may seize the firearm and hold it
until the agency returns the firearm to the parent or guardian or initiates
forfeiture proceedings pursuant to A.R.S. Title 13, Chapter 39.
   (D)   A person who violates division (A) of this section is an incorrigible
child and shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
130.99.
   (E)   If the firearm is not returned to the parent or guardian pursuant to
division (C) of this section, it shall be held by the law enforcement agency
responsible for the seizure until the charges have been adjudicated or
otherwise disposed of and until the conclusion of any forfeiture proceedings.
Upon adjudication of a person for a violation of this section, the Court in
accordance with A.R.S. Title 13, Chapter 39 shall order the firearm forfeited
and sold, destroyed or disposed of otherwise.
   (F)   If the Court finds that the parent or guardian of a minor found
responsible for violating this section knew of the minor’s unlawful conduct and
made no effort to prohibit it, the parent or guardian is jointly and severally
responsible for any fine imposed pursuant to this section.
   (G)   This section is supplemental to any other law imposing a criminal
penalty for the use or exhibition of a deadly weapon. A minor who violates this
section may be prosecuted and convicted for any other criminal conduct
involving the use or exhibition of the deadly weapon.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-11) (Ord. 85-1993, passed 10-18-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see A.R.S. § 13-3111
§ 130.12 OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person to urinate or defecate in any place open to
the public view or to be guilty of any lewd, lascivious or obscene conduct in
any public place where other persons are present or indecently to exhibit any
animal.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-12) (Ord. 86-1994, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.13 FALSE AND FRAUDULENT ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to intentionally turn on, activate any
mechanical, fire or emergency alarm or otherwise falsely report an emergency,
which causes any firefighter, police officer or other persons to initiate an
emergency response when there is no cause.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to represent falsely himself or herself
to be an officer of the town or to attempt to impersonate any officer or to
perform without authority any official act therein on behalf of an officer.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-13) (Ord. 86-1994, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.14 ACTS RELATIVE TO POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any citizen over the age of 18 years to refuse or
neglect to render assistance to any police officer when called upon for that
assistance or aid in the suppression of riot or other unlawful assemblage or in
the arrest of any person who has committed an offense.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully interfere with, resist,
delay, obstruct, molest or threaten to molest any officer or any member of the
Police or Fire Departments, Building Inspector or Animal Control Officer of the
town in the exercise of his or her official duties or knowingly and maliciously
give any false information to any officer of the town.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-14) (Ord. 86-1994, passed 10-17-1994) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.15 POSSESSION/USE OF A LASER POINTING DEVICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to focus, point or shine a laser
beam directly or indirectly on another person or animal in such a manner as to
harass, annoy or injure the person or animal.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
possess a laser-pointing device. A person shall not be in violation of this
section if his or her possession of a laser pointing device is necessary for
his or her employment, trade or occupation and it is necessary for the pointer
to be carried on his or her person.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-16) (Ord. 113-1999, passed 6-15-1999) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.16 SALE OF PRODUCTS CONTAINING PSEUDOEPHEDRINE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT. Any product containing ephedrine or
pseudoephedrine and includes any compound, mixture or preparation that contains
any detectable quantity of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, norpseudoephedrine or
phenylpropanolamine or their salts, optical isomers or salts of optical
isomers. Product packaging that lists ephedrine, pseudoephedrine,
norpseudoephedrine or phenylpropanolamine as an active ingredient shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the product is a PSEUDOEPHEDRINE PRODUCT.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business that offers any
pseudoephedrine product for sale at retail.
   (B)   The operator of a retail establishment shall keep all products
containing pseudoephedrine behind a store counter or otherwise in a manner that
is inaccessible to customers without the assistance of the operator or an
employee of the establishment.
   (C)   A person making a retail sale of a product containing pseudoephedrine
shall require a government-issued photo identification from the purchaser and
shall record the purchaser’s name, date of birth, quantity of pseudoephedrine
product purchased, transaction date and the initials of the seller.
   (D)   The information required to be obtained by division (C) above will be
retained by the retail establishment for a period of 90 days, and will be
considered a confidential document that will only be available to the operator
of the retail establishment, and shall be available to the Town Police
Department officers, State Department of Public Safety officers, County
Sheriff’s Department officers, and other law enforcement officers.
   (E)   A violation of this section is a Class 1 misdemeanor.
   (F)   This section is effective April 1, 2006.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-17) (Ord. 142-2006, passed 1-10-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.17 SMOKING IN TOWN PARKS.
   (A)   Smoking prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to smoke in any town
park or recreation facility.
   (B)   Duty of police officers to enforce. It shall be the duty of any police
officer of the town to enforce this section. The Chief of Police shall report
to the Town Manager all violations of this section.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SMOKING. Includes inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or other lighted or vaporized substance in any manner
or form.
(Ord. 182-2018, passed 3-19-2018) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for violating any prohibition or requirement imposed by §
130.04 is a Class 3 misdemeanor unless another penalty is specifically provided
for.
      (1)   Failure to comply with the provisions of §
130.04(B)(3) and (4) is a civil offense punishable by fines for each violation
not to exceed $2,500.
      (2)   Failure to comply with §
130.04(D)(1)(a) and (b) is a civil offense punishable by civil fine of $2,500.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-4)
   (C)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.11(A) shall be subject to the following fines:
      (1)   For an offense involving an unloaded firearm, a fine of not more
than $250 and the court may order the suspension or revocation of the person’s
driver’s license; and
      (2)   For an offense involving a loaded firearm, a fine of not more than
$500 and the court may order the suspension or revocation of the person’s
driver’s license.
(1991 Code, § 11-1-11)
(Ord. 85-1993, passed 10-18-1993; Ord. 162-2011, passed 1-10-2011)
CHAPTER 131: PROVIDING A LOCATION FOR AN
UNLAWFUL MINOR PARTY OR GATHERING
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Providing a location for a minor party/gathering
   
131.03   Collection of civil penalties
   
131.04   Hearings
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABSENTEE OWNER. An owner that does not reside at the property.
   JUVENILE. A minor under the age of 18 years.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 21 years.
   MINOR PARTY/GATHERING. A party or gathering of two or more people where
spirituous liquor is served to, in the possession of, or consumed by any minor.
   OWNER. A person, persons or legal entity listed as the current titleholder
of real property, as recorded in the official records of the County Recorder’s
Office.
   RESPONSIBLE PERSON. An owner, tenant, renter, lessor, lessee or other person
residing in or having charge, possession or control of the premises, or a
person who sponsored, allowed or authorized the party/gathering and who knew or
should have known that an unlawful minor party/gathering was occurring on the
premises. If such person is a juvenile, the term RESPONSIBLE PERSON includes,
in addition to the juvenile, the juvenile’s parents, legal guardian(s), or
other person exercising care, custody or supervision of the juvenile.
   SPIRITUOUS LIQUOR. Shall have the same meaning as defined in A.R.S. 4-101
(31).
(Ord. 178-2015, passed 12-21-2015)
§ 131.02 PROVIDING A LOCATION FOR A MINOR PARTY/GATHERING.
   It is unlawful for the responsible person to provide a location for, or to
permit, authorize, sponsor or allow, a minor party/gathering on private
property under the responsible person’s ownership, possession or control.
(Ord. 178-2015, passed 12-21-2015) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 COLLECTION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.
   Civil penalties may be collected in any manner provided by law.
(Ord. 178-2015, passed 12-21-2015) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 HEARINGS.
   The town’s Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and dispose of
violations of this chapter. Hearings shall be conducted pursuant to the Arizona
Rules of Procedure in Civil Traffic Violation Cases except where otherwise
inconsistent with or inapplicable to such hearings.
(Ord. 178-2015, passed 12-21-2015)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Providing a location for minor party/gathering is a civil infraction.
A person found responsible of violation of this chapter is subject to a civil
penalty as follows:
      (1)   For a first violation, the court may impose a civil penalty of not
more than $250. The court may allow the person to complete a substance abuse
education program as determined by the court in lieu of the penalty. An
absentee owner will receive a notice of violation for the first offense and
will not be subject to a civil penalty. Thereafter, in addition to other
responsible parties, an absentee owner will be treated as an occupant of the
premises for subsequent offenses.
      (2)   For a second violation within a period of 18 months, the court may
impose a civil penalty of not more than $1,000.
      (3)   For the third or subsequent violation within a period of 18 months,
the court may impose a civil penalty of not more than $1,500 for each
violation.
      (4)   In applying the 18-month provision of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3),
the dates of commission of the offense shall be the determining factor.
(Ord. 178-2015, passed 12-21-2015)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING CODES
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING CODES
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of International Building Code; amendments
   
150.02   International Plumbing Code
   
150.03   National Electrical Code
   
150.04   International Mechanical Code
   
150.05   International Fire Code
   
150.06   International Residential Code
   
150.07   International Fuel Gas Code
   
150.08   International Existing Building Code
   
150.09   International Energy Conservation Code
   
150.10   International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.11   International Private Sewage Disposal Code
   
150.12   International Urban-Wildland Interface Code
   
150.13   Incorporation of standards in building codes
   
150.14   Conformance to zoning ordinance
   
150.15   Building Official
 
   
150.98   Permit fees
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The International Building Code, 2015 Edition, as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference and incorporated herein as fully as if set out at length
in this code of ordinances; and at least three copies of said code shall be
filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept available for public use and
inspection.
   (B)   Amendments:
      (1)   Automatic fire sprinkler systems shall be required for occupancy
areas of all new structures having a total floor area exceeding seven thousand
five hundred (7500) square feet. Automatic sprinkling systems shall be required
for occupancy areas within existing structures: when building additions or
alterations result in a gross floor of seven thousand five hundred (7500)
square feet or more of the total floor area. This provision shall not exempt
those structures and occupancies for which the currently adopted edition of the
International Building Code requires automatic fire sprinkler systems or
automatic fire-extinguishing systems for structures and occupancies with total
floor areas less than seven thousand five hundred (7500) square feet.
      (2)   No building shall hereafter be erected, reconstructed, structurally
altered, or enlarged which shall exceed forty-five (45) feet from grade to the
highest point of the building or which shall exceed thirty (30) feet from grade
to top of the highest outside wall.
      (3)   At Section 101.1 (Title), change to read: These regulations shall
be known as the Building Code of the Town of Thatcher, hereinafter referred to
as “this code”.
      (4)   Delete Section 110.3.7 (Energy Efficiency Inspections).
      (5)   At Table 2304.10.1 (Fastening Schedule), insert #43-Connection:
Story-to-story tie at 48" o.c. by minimum 18-gauge strap with minimum 9" lap on
studs. Fastening: per schedule in manufacturer’s installation instructions, or
continuous sheathing with minimum 9" lap on studs.
(1991 Code, § 7-1-1) (Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-2009, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.02 INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   That certain code entitled International Plumbing Code, 2015 Edition,
as amended, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter the same as
though said code was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three
copies of said code shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept
available for public use and inspection.
   (B)   Amendments:
      (1)   At Section 101.1, change to read: These regulations shall be known
as the Plumbing Code of the Town of Thatcher, hereinafter referred to as “this
code.”
      (2)   At Section 903.1, insert in (number), “12”.
(1991 Code, § 7-1-2) (Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-2009, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.03 NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   That certain code entitled National Electrical Code, 2014 Edition, is hereby
adopted and made a part of this chapter the same as though said code was
specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three copies of said code
shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept available for public
use and inspection.
(1991 Code, § 7-1-3) (Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-2009, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.04 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   That certain code entitled International Mechanical Code, 2015
Edition, as amended, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter the same
as though said code was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least
three copies of said code shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and
kept available for public use and inspection.
   (B)   Amendments:
      (1)   At Section 101.1 (Title), change to read: These regulations shall
be known as the Mechanical Code of the Town of Thatcher, hereinafter referred
to as “this code”.
      (2)   At Section 504.8.2, delete the last sentence and replace with,
“Clothes dryer exhaust ducts shall not be connected with screws or fasteners
which extend into the duct.”
(1991 Code, § 7-1-4) (Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-2009, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.05 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   The certain code and standards known as the International Fire Code
and International Fire Code Standards, 2015 Edition, as amended, is adopted and
made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth in this chapter for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion. Three copies of such code and standards have
been and are now filed in the office of the Town Clerk and the same are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and the
provisions thereof shall be controlling within the town limits.
   (B)   Amendments:
      (1)   There shall be no new building permits granted for the use of shake
or wood shingles within the city. Shake or wood shingles may be used only to
repair or replace the existing shake or wood shingle roofs or for additions not
exceeding twenty (20) percent of square footage of existing structure.
      (2)   When a property owner fails to respond to a notice of violation
issued under the International Fire Code within the time period prescribed by
the fire marshal, and the fire marshal determines that a violation exists in
accordance with the adopted fire code sufficient to constitute an immediate
threat to life and property, the fire marshal may take such action as is
necessary to abate the violation at the expense of the property owner. Upon
completion of the abatement action, the fire marshal shall prepare a verified
statement of the actual cost of abatement, the date work was completed and the
legal description of the property on which said work was accomplished, and
cause this statement to be served upon the property owner of record by
certified mail. Failure of the property owner to pay the cost of abatement
within ninety (90) days of service of statement shall result in the recordation
of a lien against the subject property in the office of the county recorder
and, from the date of its recording, shall be a lien on said property until
paid. Such lien shall be subject and inferior to the lien for general taxes and
shall be superior to all other recorded mortgages, liens and encumbrances. A
sale of the property to satisfy a lien obtained under the provisions of this
section shall be made upon judgment of foreclosure or order of sale. The city
shall have the right to bring an action to enforce the lien in the superior
court at any time after the recording of the lien, but failure to enforce the
lien by such action in the superior court shall not affect its validity. The
recorded lien shall be prima facie evidence of the truth of all matters recited
therein, and of the regularity of all proceedings prior to the recording
thereof.
      (3)   The building official shall be designated as the fire marshal for
purposes of administering the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   At Section 101.1 (Title), insert “Town of Thatcher”.
(1991 Code, § 7-1-5) (Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-2009, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.06 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   That certain code entitled International Residential Code, 2015
Edition, as amended, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter the same
as though said code was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least
three copies of said code shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and
kept available for public use and inspection.
   (B)   Amendments:
      (1)   At Section R101.1 (Title), insert “Town of Thatcher”.
      (2)   Delete Section 303.4 (Mechanical Ventilation).
      (3)   At Section 309.5 (Fire Sprinklers), change “shall” to “may.”
      (4)   At Section R313.1 (Townhouse Automatic Fire Sprinkler System),
change “shall” to “may.”
      (5)   At Section R313.2 (One and Two Family Dwellings Automatic Fire
systems), change “shall” to “may”.
      (6)   Delete Chapter 11 (Energy Efficiency).
      (7)   At Section P2603.5.1 (Sewer Depth), revise the paragraph to read:
“Sewer depth. Regardless of freezing conditions, all building sewers that
connect to a private or public system shall be a minimum of 12 inches below
grade.”
      (8)   Delete Section 3902.16 (Arc-fault Circuit-interrupter Protection).
      (9)   Delete Section 3902.17 (Arc-fault Circuit Interrupter Protection
for Branch Circuit Extensions or Modifications).
(1991 Code, § 7-1-6) (Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-2009, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.07 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.
   (A)   That certain code entitled International Fuel Gas Code, 2015 Edition,
as amended, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter the same as
though said code was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three
copies of said code shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept
available for public use and inspection.
   (B)   Amendments:
      (1)   At Section 101.1, change to read: These regulations shall be known
as the Fuel Gas Code of the Town of Thatcher, hereinafter referred to as “this
code.”
      (2)   At Section 614.8.2, delete the last sentence and replace with,
“Clothes dryer exhaust ducts shall not be connected with screws or fasteners
which extend into the duct.”
(1991 Code, § 7-1-7) (Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-2009, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.08 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   That certain code entitled International Existing Building Code, 2015
Edition, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter the same as though
said code was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least three copies
of said code shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and kept available
for public use and inspection.
(1991 Code, § 7-1-8) (Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-2009, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.09 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   That certain code entitled International Energy Conservation Code, 2009
Edition, is hereby rescinded, as it is no longer needed.
(1991 Code, § 7-1-9) (Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-2009, passed
12-22-2009; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.10 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   That certain code entitled International Property Maintenance Code, 2015
Edition, as amended, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter the same
as though said code was specifically set forth in full herein; and at least
three copies of said code shall be filed in the office of the Town Clerk and
kept available for public use and inspection.
(Ord. 167-2011, passed 10-25-2011; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.11 INTERNATIONAL PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL CODE.
   That certain code entitled International Private Sewage Code, 2009 Edition,
is hereby rescinded, as it is no longer needed.
(Ord. 133-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.12 INTERNATIONAL URBAN-WILDLAND INTERFACE CODE.
   That certain code entitled International Urban-Wildland Interface Code, 2009
Edition, published by the International Conference of Building Officials and
the International Association of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials, is hereby
rescinded, as it is no longer needed.
(Ord. 133-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.13 INCORPORATION OF STANDARDS IN BUILDING CODES.
   Effective June 1, 2005, as per A.R.S. § 41-1492.03:
   (A)   The standards and specifications referred to in this chapter and its
implementing rules as applying to public entities shall be incorporated in any
building code in existence on or adopted after the effective date of this
chapter by this state or any agency, department or political subdivision of
this state. These standards and specifications apply to new construction and
alterations and are not required in buildings or portions of existing buildings
that do not meet the standards and specifications.
   (B)   The standards and specifications referred to in this chapter and its
implementing rules as applying to public accommodations and commercial
facilities shall be incorporated in any building code in existence on or
adopted subsequent to the effective date of this chapter by this state or any
agency, department or political subdivision of this state. These standards and
specifications shall apply to new construction and alterations commenced after
the effective date of these standards and specifications.
(Ord. 133-2005, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 150.14 CONFORMANCE TO ZONING ORDINANCE.
   Effective June 1, 2005, whenever a building permit is issued and a building
inspection performed, the building must conform to the provisions of the zoning
ordinance in addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(1991 Code, § 7-1-10) (Ord. 133-2005, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 150.15 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   Effective June 1, 2005, the Building Official and Administrative Authority,
as it may be referenced in any section of this chapter for all matters
pertaining to any building, plumbing, electrical or any other inspections,
shall be vested in the Office of the Building Inspector or any other person as
the Council may determine.
(1991 Code, § 7-1-11) (Ord. 133-2005, passed 4-12-2005)
§ 150.98 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees will be set by a resolution of the Town Council from time to
time.
(Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this chapter
except §
150.10 shall be guilty of a Class 1 misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall be a separate offense punishable as herein above described.
(Ord. 133-2005, passed 4-12-2005; Ord. 157-2009, passed 10-13-2009; Ord. 158-
2009, passed 12-22-2009)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Findings of fact
   
151.02   Statement of purpose
   
151.03   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
151.04   Definitions
   
151.05   Application of chapter
   
151.06   Establishment of special flood hazard areas
   
151.07   Compliance
   
151.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.09   Interpretation
   
151.10   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
151.11   Statutory exemptions
   
151.12   Declaration of public nuisance
   
151.13   Abatement of violations
   
151.14   Unlawful acts
Administration
   
151.25   Establishment of development permit
   
151.26   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.40   Standards of construction
   
151.41   Standards for storage of materials and equipment
   
151.42   Standards for utilities
   
151.43   Standards for subdivisions
   
151.44   Standards for manufactured homes
   
151.45   Floodways
Variance Procedure
   
151.60   Appeal Board
   
151.61   Conditions for variances
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authorization, see A.R.S. § 48-3604
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and velocities
and, when inadequately anchored, damage uses in other areas. Uses that are
inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood damage
also contribute to the flood loss.
(1991 Code, § 16-1-1) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
areas of special flood hazard;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second use and
development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area
of special flood hazard;
    (H)   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard assume
responsibility for their actions; and
   (I)   Maintain eligibility for state disaster relief.
(1991 Code, § 16-1-2) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.03 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and
provisions for:
   (A)   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety
and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging
increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve those uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
   (D)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in other
areas.
(1991 Code, § 16-1-3) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO Zone on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM). The base flood depths range from one to three feet; a clearly
defined channel does not exist; the path of flooding is unpredictable and
indeterminate and velocity flow may be evident.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE. Any form of loan, grant, guaranty, insurance, payment,
rebate, subsidy, disaster assistance loan or grant, or any other form of direct
or indirect federal assistance, other than general or special revenue sharing
or formula grants made to states.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of floodwaters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source; or
      (3)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe
storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in FLOODING as defined in this definition.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY FLOODWAY MAP. The official map on which the Federal Insurance
Administration has delineated both the areas of flood hazard and the floodway.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, the flood boundary
floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. This system typically includes dams, reservoirs,
levees or dikes. These specialized flood-modifying works are those constructed
in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of “flooding”).
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The Town Clerk who is hereby authorized by the
Floodplain Board to administer the provisions of this chapter.
   FLOODPLAIN BOARD. The Town Council of the town at those times as it is
engaged in the enforcement of this chapter.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance)
and other applications of police power. The term describes those state or local
regulations in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose
of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of
a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as a flash flood or
an abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas necessary in order to discharge the 100-year flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and shipbuilding and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee and
associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For floodplain
management purposes, the term MANUFACTURED HOME also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
180 consecutive days.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for sale or rent.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For floodplain management purposes, structures for which
the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a
floodplain management regulation adopted by a community.
   PERSON. An individual or his or her agent, firm, partnership, association,
corporation or agent of the aforementioned groups, or this state or its
agencies or political subdivisions.
   PROGRAM. The National Flood Insurance Program authorized by 42 U.S.C. §§
4001-4128.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management regulations or of the NFIP standards.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. An elevation one foot above the base flood
elevation.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations or, if this is
not possible, to reduce the impacts of its noncompliance. Ways that impacts may
be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development from
flood damages, implementing the enforcement provisions of this chapter or
otherwise deterring future similar violations, or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. An area having special flood or flood-related
erosion hazards, and shown on an FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99 or
AH.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement or other improvement was within 180 days of the
permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. 
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this chapter is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
(1991 Code, Art. 16-2) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.05 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
corporate limits of the town.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-1) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS.
   (A)   The Town Community Development Director is appointed/designated as the
Floodplain Administrator for the town and will serve as the community point of
contact on National Flood Insurance Program issues for county, state and
federal officials.
   (B)   Those public records entitled “Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for the
Town of Thatcher, Arizona” with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs)
dated December 15, 1983, and all subsequent amendments and/or revisions, three
copies of which shall be kept on file in the office of the Town Clerk, are
hereby adopted by reference, as the basis for establishing the special flood
hazard areas for floodplain management in the town. The special flood hazard
areas documented in the flood insurance study and flood insurance rate maps are
the minimum area of applicability of the floodplain management regulations and
may be supplemented by studies for other areas as allowed in the regulations.
   (C)   The public record designated as the “Floodplain Management Regulations
for Graham County,” dated March 16, 1998, and all subsequent amendments and/or
revisions, three copies of which shall be kept on file in the office of the
Town Clerk, is hereby adopted as the legal basis for implementing floodplain
management in this community.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-2) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986; Ord. 152-2007, passed 5-8-
2007)
§ 151.07 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-3) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another provision of this code, or an ordinance, easement, covenant or deed
restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-4) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.09 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-5) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.10 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within the areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the town, any officer or employee
thereof or the Federal Insurance Administration for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-6) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.11 STATUTORY EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In accordance with A.R.S. § 48-3609, nothing in this chapter shall:
      (1)   Affect existing uses of property or the right to continuation of
the use under conditions which existed on January 15, 1987;
      (2)   Affect repair or alteration of property for the purposes for which
the property was used on January 15, 1987; providing the repair or alteration
does not exceed 50% of the value of the property prior to the repair or
alteration; and provided the repair or alteration does not decrease the
carrying capacity of the watercourse; or
      (3)   Affect or apply to facilities constructed or installed pursuant to
a certificate of environmental compatibility issued under the authority of
A.R.S. Title 40, Chapter 2, Article 6.2.
   (B)   In accordance with A.R.S. § 48-3613, written authorization shall not
be required, nor shall the Floodplain Board prohibit:
      (1)   The construction of bridges, culverts, dikes and other structures
necessary to the construction of public highways, roads and streets
intersecting a watercourse;
      (2)   The construction of storage dams for watering livestock or
wildlife, structures on banks of a creek, stream, river, wash, arroyo or other
watercourse to prevent erosion of or damage to adjoining land, or dams for the
conservation of floodwaters as permitted by A.R.S. Title 48, Chapter 21;
      (3)   Construction of tailing dams and waste disposal areas for use in
connection with mining and metallurgical operations. This division (B)(3) does
not exempt those sand and gravel operations which will divert, retard or
obstruct the flow of waters in any watercourse; or
      (4)   Any flood control district, or other political subdivision, from
exercising powers granted to it under A.R.S. Title 45, Chapter 10.
   (C)   Before any construction authorized by division (B) of this section may
begin, the responsible person must submit plans for the construction to the
Floodplain Board for review and comment.
   (D)   These exemptions do not preclude any person from liability if that
person’s actions increase flood hazards to any other person or property.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-7) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.12 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Every new structure, building, fill, excavation or development located or
maintained within any area of special flood hazard after August 8, 1973 in
violation of this chapter is a public nuisance per se.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-8) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 ABATEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Within 30 days of discovery of a violation of this chapter, the
Floodplain Administrator shall submit a report to the Floodplain Board which
shall include all information available to the Floodplain Administrator which
is pertinent to the violation.
   (B)   Within 30 days of receipt of this report, the Floodplain Board shall
either:
      (1)   Take any necessary action to effect the abatement of the violation;
      (2)   Issue a variance to this chapter in accordance with the provisions
of §§
151.60 and
151.61;
      (3)   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information may be required for its determination.
This information must be provided to the Floodplain Administrator within 30
days of the order, and he or she shall submit an amended report to the
Floodplain Board within 20 days. At its next regularly scheduled public
meeting, the Floodplain Board shall either order the abatement of the violation
or it shall grant a variance in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.60 and
151.61; or
      (4)   Submit to the Administrator of Federal Insurance Administration a
declaration for denial of insurance, stating that the property is in violation
of a cited state or local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to § 1316 of
the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 as amended.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-9) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.14 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to divert, retard or obstruct the flow of
waters in any watercourse whenever it creates a hazard to life or property
without securing the written authorization of the Floodplain Board.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-10) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986) Penalty, see §
151.99
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.25 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   A development permit shall be obtained before construction or
development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
151.06. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator and may include but not be limited to: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevation
of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of
materials, drainage facilities and the location of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest
habitable floor (including basement) of all structures; in Zone AO, elevation
of existing grade and proposed elevation of lowest habitable floor of all
structures;
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any
structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
151.40(C)(3); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(1991 Code, § 16-4-1) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.26 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties of the Floodplain Administrator shall include but not be limited to:
   (A)   Permit review. Review all development permits to determine that:
      (1)   The permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
      (2)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
      (3)   The site is reasonably safe from flooding; and
      (4)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of the floodway. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means
that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
   (B)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has not
been provided in accordance with §
151.06, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data available from a federal, state or other
source, in order to administer §§
151.40 through
151.45. Any information shall be submitted to the Floodplain Board for
adoption;
   (C)   Information to be obtained and maintained. Obtain and maintain for
public inspection and make available as needed for flood insurance policies:
      (1)   The certified elevation required in §
151.40(C)(1);
      (2)   The certification required in §
151.40(C)(2);
      (3)   The floodproofing certification required in §
151.40(C)(3); and
      (4)   The certified elevation required in §
151.43(B).
   (D)   Alteration of watercourses. Whenever a watercourse is to be altered or
relocated:
      (1)   Notify adjacent communities and the State Department of Water
Resources prior to the alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit
evidence of that notification to the Federal Insurance Administration; and
      (2)   Require that the flood carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated portion of the watercourse is maintained.
   (E)   Delineation of floodplains affected. Within 120 days after completion
of construction of any flood control protective works which changes the rate of
flow during the flood or the configuration of the floodplain upstream or
downstream from or adjacent to the project, the person or agency responsible
for installation of the project shall provide to the governing bodies of all
jurisdictions affected by the project a new delineation of all floodplains
affected by the project. The new delineation shall be done according to the
criteria adopted by the Director of Water Resources;
   (F)   Written notice of Development Plan. Advise the flood control district
of the county and any adjunct jurisdiction having responsibility for floodplain
management in writing and provide a copy of Development Plan of all
applications for floodplain use permits or variances to develop land in a
floodplain or floodway within one mile of the corporate limits of the town.
Also, advise the Flood Control District of this county in writing and provide a
copy of any development plan of any major development proposed within a
floodplain or floodway which could affect floodplains, floodways or
watercourses within the district’s area of jurisdiction. Written notice and a
copy of the plan of development shall be sent to the District no later than
three working days after having been received by the town;
   (G)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations where needed,
as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special flood
hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the location of
the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in §§
151.60 and
151.61; and
   (H)   Actions on violations. Take actions on violations of this chapter as
required in §
151.13.
(1991 Code, § 16-4-2) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.40 STANDARDS OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Standards required. In all areas of special flood hazards the
following anchoring standards are required:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored
to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure; and
      (2)   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of §
151.44.
   (B)   Construction materials and methods.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   Elevation and floodproofing.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure shall
have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the regulatory
flood elevation. Nonresidential structures may meet the standards in division
(C)(3) below. Upon the completion of the structure, the elevation of the lowest
floor including basement shall be certified by a registered professional
engineer or surveyor and provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (2)   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure in
Zone AO shall have the lowest floor, including basement, higher than the
highest adjacent grade at least one foot higher than the depth number on the
FIRM, or at least two feet if no depth number is specified. Nonresidential
structures may meet the standards in division (C)(3) of this section. Upon
completion of the structure, a registered professional engineer shall certify
to the Floodplain Administrator that the elevation of the structure meets this
standard.
      (3)   Nonresidential construction shall either be elevated in conformance
with division (C)(1) or (2) above, or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that below the regulatory flood level the
structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this division are satisfied. These certifications shall
be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (4)   Require, for all new construction and substantial improvements,
that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding
shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for
meeting this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional
engineer or architect to meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided;
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade; and
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (5)   Manufactured homes shall meet the above standards and also the
standards in §
151.44.
(1991 Code, § 16-5-1) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.41 STANDARDS FOR STORAGE OF MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of flooding
buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal or plant
life is prohibited.
   (B)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not subject
to major damage by floods and if firmly anchored to prevent flotation or if
readily removable from the area within the time available after flood warning.
(1991 Code, § 16-5-2) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.42 STANDARDS FOR UTILITIES.
   (A)   All new and replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems shall
be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system and discharge from systems into floodwaters.
   (B)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (C)   Waste disposal systems shall not be installed wholly or partially in a
floodway.
(1991 Code, § 16-5-3) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.43 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the flood hazard
area and the elevation of the base flood.
   (B)   All final subdivision plans will provide the elevation of proposed
structures and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the final pad
elevation shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or surveyor
and provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage. All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities
and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage. All subdivisions shall provide adequate
drainage to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(1991 Code, § 16-5-4) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.44 STANDARDS FOR MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   All new and replacement manufactured homes and additions to manufactured
homes shall:
   (A)   Be elevated so that the bottom of the structural frame or the lowest
point of any attached appliances, whichever is lower, is at the regulatory
flood elevation; and
   (B)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
(1991 Code, § 16-5-5) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.45 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.06 are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential,
the following provisions apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with
all other applicable flood hazard reduction provisions of this subchapter.
(1991 Code, § 16-5-6) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
VARIANCE PROCEDURE
§ 151.60 APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   The Floodplain Board shall hear and decide appeals and requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The Floodplain Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged
there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by the
Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
   (C)   In passing upon these applications, the Floodplain Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (2)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (3)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
      (4)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (5)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (6)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
      (7)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (8)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
      (9)   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (10)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
      (11)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system, and streets and
bridges.
   (D)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size, contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing division (C)(1) through (11) of this
section have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-half
acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (E)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (C) of this section and
the purposes of this chapter, the Floodplain Board may attach any conditions to
the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
chapter.
   (F)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Insurance Administration upon
request.
(1991 Code, § 16-6-1) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.61 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed in the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
   (B)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (C)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (D)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (E)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the regulatory flood elevation and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation. The notice will also state that the land upon
which the variance is granted shall be ineligible for exchange of state land
pursuant to the flood relocation and land exchange program provided for by
A.R.S. Title 26, Chapter 2, Article 2. A copy of the notice shall be recorded
by the Floodplain Board in the office of the County Recorder and shall be
recorded in a manner so that it appears in the chain of title of the affected
parcel of land.
(1991 Code, § 16-6-2) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
151.14 shall be guilty of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
(1991 Code, § 16-3-10) (Ord. 55, passed 12-15-1986)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Subdivision ordinance; adopted by reference
§ 152.01 SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The “Town of Thatcher Subdivision Ordinance” dated June 2013 is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through
town offices.
(Ord. 169-2013, passed 9-17-2013; Ord. 194-2022, passed 3-21-2022)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
   
153.01   Zoning ordinance; adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ZONING ORDINANCE; ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The “Town of Thatcher Zoning Ordinance” dated June 2013 is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in full herein. Copies are available through town
offices.
(Ord. 170-2013, passed 9-17-2013; Ord. 177-2015, passed 7-20-2015; Ord. 180-
2017, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 181-2017, passed 6-19-2017; Ord. 184-2019, passed
6-17-2019; Ord. 188-2020, passed 2-22-2021; Ord. 191-2021, passed 7-26-2021;
Ord. 195-2024, passed 4-15-2024)
Cross-reference:
   Amendments to the zoning map, see
TSO II
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   REZONING
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting a permit/franchise to construct and maintain a
31       8-13-1973   community antenna television system to C.H. Haralson, d/b/
                     a Priv-o-line Cable Company and assigns, for 15 years
                     Granting a franchise to construct and maintain a cable
58       10-19-1987  television system to Post-Newsweek Cable, Inc. and
                     assigns, for 15 years
                     Granting a franchise to construct and maintain a cable
103-1998 3-17-1998   television system to Cable One, Inc. and assigns, for 15
                     years
                     Granting a franchise to construct and maintain a cable
128-2004 9-14-2004   television system to Valley Connections, L.L.C. and
                     assigns, for 15 years
193-2022 2-28-2022   Granting a franchise to construct and maintain a gas
                     system to Southwest Gas Corporation
                    
 
TABLE II: REZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
74       9-16-1991   Rezoning newly annexed property as AR, C2 and R2
171-2013 11-18-2013  Rezoning parcels 104-01-038A and 104-01-038J from C-2 to
                     MU
173-2014 1-20-2014   Rezoning parcel 104-01-038B from C-2 to MU
174-2014 4-22-2014   Rezoning the south 290 feet of parcel 104-24-083 from C-
                     2 to R1-8
175-2014 10-20-2014  Rezoning the recently annexed Riverwalk Annexation as R1-
                     43
176-2015 7-20-2015   Rezoning parcels 104-10-095, 107, 238, 343, and 344 as MU
185-2020 3-16-2020   Rezoning parcels 104-23-088K and 104-23-0081 from C- 2 to
                     R1-10
187-2020 11-16-2020  Rezoning parcel 104- 28-066R from R-3 to R-4
189-2020 12-21-2020  Rezoning parcel 104- 33-037 and a portion of 104-33-231
                     from C-2 and R1-43 to R1- 10
190-2020 12-21-2020  Rezoning parcel 104- 09-155A from C-2 and R1-8 to C-2
                    
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at a point east and
30       3-29-1971   north of the SW corner of Section 1, Township 7 South,
                     Range 25 East of the Gila and Salt River Base and Meridian
                     on the east corporate line of the town
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at the SW corner of
33       12-16-1974  Section 23, Township 7 South, Range 25 East of the Gila
                     and Salt River Base and Meridian on the south corporate
                     line of the town
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at a point south of
36       6-21-1976   the NW corner of Section 26, Township 7 South, Range 25
                     East of the Gila and Salt River Base and Meridian on the
                     south and east corporate limits of the town
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at the intersection
39       1-15-1979   of the town limits and north line of Section 12, Township
                     7 South, Range 25 East of the Gila and Salt River Base and
                     Meridian
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at the NE corner of
41       4-3-1979    Section 12, Township 7 South, Range 25 East of the Gila
                     and Salt River Base and Meridian
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at a point on the
44       6-17-1980   section line between Sections 11 and 12, Township 6 South,
                     Range 25 East (intersecting the centerline of First
                     Avenue)
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at the center quarter
45       6-17-1980   corner of Section 1, Township 7 South, Range 25 East of
                     the Gila and Salt River Base and Meridian
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at a point on the
46       6-18-1980   east line of Section 2, Township 7 South, Range 25 East of
                     the Gila and Salt River Base and Meridian
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at a point south of
53       7-16-1984   the NW corner of Section 26, Township 7 South, Range 25
                     East of the Gila and Salt River Base and Meridian
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at a point north and
56       3-9-1987    west of the SE quarter of Section 12, Township 7 South,
                     Range 25 East
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at a point east and
61       9-19-1988   north of the SW corner of Section 12, Township 7 South,
                     Range 25 East of the Gila and Salt River Base and Meridian
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at the SW corner of
70       10-22-1990  the SE quarter of the NW quarter of Section 12, Township 7
                     South, Range 25 East of the Gila and Salt River Meridian
                     Annexing certain property, beginning at a point west of
69       11-19-1990  the NE corner of Section 12, Township 7 South, Range 25
                     East of the Gila and Salt River Meridian
                     Annexing certain property, part of the west half of
73       9-16-1991   Section 26, Township 7 South, Range 25 East of the Gila
                     and Salt River Meridian, beginning at the west quarter
                     corner of Section 26
                     Annexing certain property, part of the west half of
76-1992  8-17-1992   Section 26, Township 7 South, Range 25 East of the Gila
                     and Salt River Meridian, beginning at the west quarter
                     corner of Section 26
                     Annexing certain property, part of the north half of
77-1993  1-18-1993   Section 2, Township 7 South, Range 25 East of the Gila and
                     Salt River Meridian, beginning at the northeast corner of
                     Section 2, containing 191.1086 acres, more or less
                     Annexing certain property, part of Sections 1 and 12,
88-1995  3-20-1995   Township 7 South, Range 25 East of the Gila and Salt River
                     Meridian, beginning at the east quarter corner of Section
                     12
                     Annexing certain property, the east half of the SW quarter
                     and the NW quarter of the SW quarter of Section 13,
89-1995  3-20-1995   Township 7 south, Range 25 East of the Gila and Salt River
                     Base and Meridian, lying south and west of the Highline
                     Canal, with exceptions as designated in Ord. 89-1995
                     Annexing certain property, part of the SE quarter of
122-2003 2-18-2003   Section 3, Township 7 South, Range 25 East, of the Gila
                     and Salt River Meridian, beginning at the intersection of
                     the town limits and the east-west centerline of Section 3
136-2005 6-14-2005   Annexing certain property, part of Section 11, Township 7
                     South, Range 25 East and Salt River Meridian
                     Annexing certain property, part of Sections 3 and 10,
139-2005 11-8-2005   Township 7 South, Range 25 East, Gila and Salt River
                     Meridian, beginning at the SE corner of Section 10
                     Annexing certain property, part of Section 15, Township 7
140-2005 11-8-2005   South, Range 25 East, Gila and Salt River Meridian,
                     beginning at the NE corner of Section 15
                     Annexing certain property, part of Section 13, Township 7
149-2006 12-19-2006  South, Range 25 East, Gila and Salt River Base and
                     Meridian, as described in Ord. 149-2006
                     Annexing certain property, part of Sections 22, 26 and 27,
154-2008 8-7-2008    Township 7 South, Range 25 East, Gila and Salt River
                     Meridian, beginning at the SE corner of Section 15 and the
                     NE corner of Section 22
                     Annexing certain property, part of Section 35, Township 6
172-2013 12-16-2013  South and Section 2, Township 7 South, Range 25 East, Gila
                     and Salt River Meridian, as described in Ord. 172-2013
                     Annexing certain property, part of the South Half of
192-2021 8-16-2021   Section 11, Township 7 South, Range 25 East of the Gila
                     and Salt River Meridian, as described in Ord. 192-2021
                    
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arizona Revised Statutes
References to 1991 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES
A.R.S. Section Code Section
A.R.S. Section            Code Section
1-211 through 1-215       10.05
3-561 through 3-563       111.02
Title 8, Ch. 2            130.05
9-240(B)(28)(b)           10.99
12-821                    31.41
Title 13, Ch. 39          130.11
13-3111                   130.11
Title 22, Ch. 2, Art. 4   36.17
22-402                    36.01
Title 26, Ch. 2           33.04 ,
                          34.06
Title 26, Ch. 2, Art. 2   151.61
Title 28                  71.17
Title 28, Ch. 6, Art. 20  70.99
Title 28, Ch. 6, Art. 21  70.99
28-881                    72.07
28-883                    72.07
28-981                    130.06
28-982                    130.06
28-983                    130.06
28-1598                   10.99
36-1601                   130.04
38-260                    30.007
38-503(C)                 33.10
Title 40, Ch. 2, Art. 6.2 151.11
41-1492.03                150.13
Title 45, Ch. 10          151.11
Title 48, Ch. 21          151.11
48-3604                   Ch. 151
48-3609                   151.11
48-3613                   151.11
                          
 
REFERENCES TO 1991 CODE
1991 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1991 Code Section 2013 Code Section
1-3-2             10.05
1-4-3             10.17
1-4-4             10.17
Art. 1-8B         10.99,
                  70.99
2-1-1             30.001
2-1-2             30.002
2-1-3             30.003
2-1-4             30.004
2-1-5             30.005
2-1-6             30.006
2-1-7             30.007
2-1-8             30.008
2-2-1             30.020
2-2-2             30.021
2-2-3             30.022
2-2-4             30.023
2-2-5             30.024
2-2-6             30.025
2-2-7             30.026
2-3-1             30.040
2-3-2             30.041
2-3-3             30.042
2-3-4             30.043
2-3-5             30.044
2-4-1             30.060
2-4-2             30.061
2-4-3             30.062
2-4-4             30.063
2-4-5             30.064
2-4-6             30.065
2-4-7             30.066
2-4-8             30.067
2-4-9             30.068
2-5-1             30.080
2-5-2             30.081
2-5-3             30.082
2-5-4             30.083
2-5-5             30.084
2-5-6             30.085
2-5-7             30.086
2-5-8             30.087
2-6-1             31.01
2-6-2             31.02
2-6-3             31.03
2-6-4             31.04
2-6-5             31.05
2-6-6             31.06
2-6-7             31.07
2-6-8             31.08
2-6-9             31.09
2-6-10            31.10
3-1-1             31.25
3-1-2             31.26
3-1-3             31.27
3-1-4             31.28
3-1-5             31.29
3-2-1             31.40
3-2-2             31.41
3-2-3             31.42
3-2-4             31.43
3-2-5             31.44
3-2-6             31.45
3-3-1             37.01
3-3-2             37.02
3-3-3             37.03
3-3-4             37.04
3-4-1             33.01
3-4-2             33.02
3-4-3             33.03
3-4-4             33.04
3-4-5             33.05
3-4-6             33.06
3-4-7             33.07
3-4-8             33.08
3-4-9             33.09
3-4-10            33.10
3-5-1             34.01
3-5-2             34.02
3-5-3             34.03
3-5-4             34.04
3-5-5             34.05
3-5-6             34.06
3-5-7             34.07
3-5-8             34.08
4-1-1             32.01
4-1-2             32.02
4-1-3             32.03
4-1-4             32.04
4-1-5             32.05
4-2-1             32.20
4-2-2             32.21
4-2-3             32.22
4-2-5             32.23
4-2-6             32.24
4-2-7             32.25
Art. 5-1          36.01
5-2-1             36.15
5-2-2             36.16
5-2-3             36.17
Art. 5-3          36.02
Art. 5-4          36.30,
                  36.31
6-1-1             90.01
6-1-2             90.02
6-1-3             90.03
6-1-4             90.04
6-2-1             90.20
6-2-2             90.21
6-2-3             90.22
6-2-4             90.23
6-2-5             90.24
6-2-6             90.25
6-2-7             90.26
6-2-8             90.27
6-2-9             90.28
6-2-10            90.29
6-2-11            90.30
6-2-12            90.31
6-2-13            90.32
7-1-1             150.01
7-1-2             150.02
7-1-3             150.03
7-1-4             150.04
7-1-5             150.05
7-1-6             150.06
7-1-7             150.07
7-1-8             150.08
7-1-9             150.09
7-1-10            150.14
7-1-11            150.15
8-1-1             110.01
8-1-2             110.02
8-1-3             110.03
8-1-4             110.04
8-1-5             110.05
8-1-6             110.06
8-1-7             110.07
8-1-8             110.08
8-1-9             110.09
8-1-10            110.10
8-2-1             111.01
8-2-2             111.02
8-2-3             111.03
8-2-4             111.04
8-2-5             111.05
8-2-6             111.06
8-2-7             111.07
8-2-8             111.08
8-2-9             111.09
8-2-10            111.10
8-2-11            111.11
8-2-12            111.12
8-2-13            111.13
Art. 9-1          35.01
10-1-1            50.01
10-1-2            50.02
10-1-3            50.03
10-1-4            50.04
10-1-5            50.05
10-2-1            50.20
10-2-2            50.21
10-2-3            50.22
10-2-4            50.24
10-2-5            50.25
10-2-6            50.26
10-2-7            50.27
10-2-8            50.28
11-1-1            130.01
11-1-2            130.02
11-1-3            130.03
11-1-4            130.04,
                  130.99
11-1-5            130.05
11-1-6            130.06
11-1-7            130.07
11-1-8            130.08
11-1-9            130.09
11-1-10           130.10
11-1-11           130.11,
                  130.99
11-1-12           130.12
11-1-13           130.13
11-1-14           130.14
11-1-16           130.15
11-1-17           130.16
12-1-1            70.01
12-1-2            70.02
12-1-3            70.03
12-1-4            70.04
12-1-5            70.05
12-1-6            70.06
12-2-1            71.01
12-2-2            71.02
12-2-3            71.03
12-2-4            71.04
12-2-5            71.05
12-2-6            71.06
12-2-7            71.07
12-2-8            71.08
12-2-9            71.09
12-2-10           71.10
12-2-11           71.11
12-2-12           71.12
12-2-13           71.13
12-2-14           71.14
12-2-15           71.15
12-2-16           71.16
12-2-17           71.17
12-3-1            72.01
12-3-2            72.02
12-3-3            72.03
12-3-4            72.04
12-3-5            72.05
12-3-6            72.06
12-3-7            72.07
12-3-8            72.08
12-3-9            72.09
Art. 13-1         51.01
13-2-1            51.25
13-2-2            51.26
13-2-3            51.27
13-2-4            51.28
13-3-1            51.02
13-3-2            51.03
13-3-3            51.04
13-3-4            51.05
13-3-5            51.06
13-3-6            51.07
13-3-7            51.08
13-3-8            51.09
13-3-9            51.10
13-4-1            51.40
13-4-2            51.41
13-4-3            51.42
13-4-4            51.43
13-4-5            51.44
13-4-6            51.45
13-4-7            51.46
13-5              51.11
14-1-1            52.01,
                  52.99
14-1-2            52.02,
                  52.99
14-1-3            52.03
14-1-4            52.04
14-1-5            52.05
14-1-6            52.06
14-1-7            52.07
14-1-8            52.08,
                  52.99
14-1-9            52.09,
                  52.99
14-2-1            52.25
14-2-2            52.26
14-2-3            52.27
14-3              52.28
14-4              52.10
14-5-1            52.40
14-5-2            52.41
14-5-3            52.42
14-5-4            52.43
14-5-5            52.44
14-5-6            52.45
14-5-7            52.46
15-1-1            112.01
15-1-2            112.02
15-2-1            112.15
15-2-2            112.16
15-2-3            112.17
15-2-4            112.18
15-2-5            112.19
15-2-6            112.20
15-2-7            112.21
15-2-8            112.22
15-2-9            112.23
15-2-10           112.24
16-1-1            151.01
16-1-2            151.02
16-1-3            151.03
Art. 16-2         151.04
16-3-1            151.05
16-3-2            151.06
16-3-3            151.07
16-3-4            151.08
16-3-5            151.09
16-3-6            151.10
16-3-7            151.11
16-3-8            151.12
16-3-9            151.13
16-3-10           151.14,
                  151.99
16-4-1            151.25
16-4-2            151.26
16-5-1            151.40
16-5-2            151.41
16-5-3            151.42
16-5-4            151.43
16-5-5            151.44
16-5-6            151.45
16-6-1            151.60
16-6-2            151.61
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
1        10-25-1918  30.063
17       12-15-1952  32.04
                     32.03,
21       10-21-1957  32.20 –
                     32.25
24       10-19-1959  72.06
24-A     9-21-1964   71.11
                     90.01,
25       2-20-1967   90.03,
                     90.04
26       4-21-1969   32.40 –
                     32.46
30       3-29-1971   TSO III
31       8-13-1973   TSO I
33       12-16-1974  TSO III
35       1-19-1976   30.040 –
                     30.044
36       6-21-1976   TSO III
39       1-15-1979   TSO III
41       4-3-1979    TSO III
42       9-17-1979   71.14 –
                     71.16
44       6-17-1980   TSO III
45       6-17-1980   TSO III
46       6-18-1980   TSO III
53       7-16-1984   TSO III
54       8-20-1984   111.01 –
                     111.13
                     151.01 –
                     151.14,
                     151.25,
                     151.26,
55       12-15-1986  151.40 –
                     151.45,
                     151.60,
                     151.61,
                     151.99
56       3-9-1987    TSO III
57       3-9-1987    35.01,
                     35.99
                     112.01,
                     112.02,
58       10-19-1987  112.15 –
                     112.24,
                     TSO I
60       9-19-1988   130.10
61       9-19-1988   TSO III
63       11-21-1988  130.05
                     36.01,
                     36.02,
64       2-20-1989   36.15,
                     36.16,
                     36.30,
                     36.31
66       11-20-1989  130.10
67       5-21-1990   35.01,
                     35.99
68       8-20-1990   130.06
70       10-22-1990  TSO III
69       11-19-1990  TSO III
73       9-16-1991   TSO III
74       9-16-1991   TSO II
75       4-20-1992   51.27,
                     51.28
76-1992  8-17-1992   TSO III
79-1992  10-19-1992  37.01
80-1992  12-21-1992  52.01,
                     52.99
82-1992  12-21-1992  51.28,
                     51.99
77-1993  1-18-1993   TSO III
83-1993  8-16-1993   35.01,
                     35.99
84-1993  9-20-1993   90.20 –
                     90.32
85-1993  10-18-1993  130.11,
                     130.99
86-1994  10-17-1994  130.12 –
                     130.14
87-1995  1-23-1995   35.01,
                     35.99
88-1995  3-20-1995   TSO III
89-1995  3-20-1995   TSO III
90-1995  3-20-1995   110.03
91-1995  4-17-1995   37.02
92-1995  6-19-1995   35.01,
                     35.99
93-1995  11-20-1995  30.040
94-1996  4-15-1996   35.01,
                     35.99
95-1996  7-15-1996   30.060
96-1996  11-19-1996  35.01,
                     35.99
97-1996  12-17-1996  90.02
98-1997  1-21-1997   52.06,
                     52.07
103-1998 3-17-1998   TSO I
105-1998 5-19-1998   35.01,
                     35.99
106-1998 7-21-1998   72.08
107-1998 9-15-1998   71.03
109-98   10-13-1998  72.04
113-1999 6-15-1999   130.15
115-1999 10-19-1999  35.01,
                     35.99
120-2001 11-20-2001  35.01,
                     35.99
122-2003 2-18-2003   TSO III
123-2003 4-15-2003   35.01,
                     35.99
124-2003 10-21-2003  52.02,
                     52.99
126-2004 2-17-2004   33.01
128-2004 9-14-2004   TSO I
129-2004 10-12-2004  35.01
                     150.11 –
133-2005 4-12-2005   150.15,
                     150.99
135-2005 5-10-2005   35.02
136-2005 6-14-2005   TSO III
137-2005 10-11-2005  35.01,
                     35.99
138-2005 10-11-2005  32.21,
                     32.99
139-2005 11-8-2005   TSO III
140-2005 11-8-2005   TSO III
141-2006 1-10-2006   72.09
142-2006 1-10-2006   130.16
143-2006 2-14-2006   35.01,
                     35.99
145-2006 3-14-2006   71.17
147-2006 11-14-2006  35.01
148-2006 12-19-2006  35.01,
                     35.99
149-2006 12-19-2006  TSO III
150-2007 1-11-2007   35.01,
                     35.99
                     52.08,
151-2007 4-10-2007   52.09,
                     52.99
152-2007 5-8-2007    151.06
153-2008 3-18-2008   35.01,
                     35.99
154-2008 8-7-2008    TSO III
155-2009 5-12-2009   35.01,
                     35.99
156-2009 8-11-2009   35.01,
                     35.99
                     150.01 –
157-2009 10-13-2009  150.09,
                     150.99
                     150.01 –
158-2009 12-22-2009  150.09,
                     150.99
159-2010 1-20-2010   52.99
162-2011 1-10-2011   130.04,
                     130.99
163-2011 4-12-2011   35.01,
                     35.99
164-2011 5-10-2011   31.25
165-2011 6-14-2011   35.01
166-2011 7-12-2011   35.01,
                     35.99
167-2011 10-25-2011  150.10
168-2013 3-12-2013   Adopting Ordinance
169-2013 9-17-2013   152.01
170-2013 9-17-2013   153.01
171-2013 11-18-2013  TSO II
172-2013 12-16-2013  TSO III
173-2014 1-20-2014   TSO II
174-2014 4-22-2014   TSO II
175-2014 10-20-2014  TSO II
176-2015 7-20-2015   TSO II
177-2015 7-20-2015   153.01
                     131.01 –
178-2015 12-21-2015  131.04,
                     131.99
180-2017 3-20-2017   153.01
                     150.01 –
181-2017 6-19-2017   150.12,
                     150.98,
                     153.01
182-2018 3-19-2018   130.17
183-2018 4-16-2018   72.10
184-2019 6-17-2019   153.01
185-2020 3-16-2020   TSO II
186-2020 9-21-2020   35.01,
                     35.99
187-2020 11-16-2020  TSO II
188-2020 2-22-2021   153.01
189-2020 12-21-2020  TSO II
190-2020 12-21-2020  TSO II
191-2021 7-26-2021   153.01
192-2021 8-16-2021   TSO III
193-2022 2-28-2022   TSO I
194-2022 3-21-2022   152.01
195-2024 4-15-2024   153.01
                    
 
