TOWN OF TUSAYAN, ARIZONA
ZONING CODE
2017 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2017-01, passed 4-19-2017
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ZONING CODE
Section
   
1.   PURPOSE AND SCOPE
   
2.   PRIVATE AGREEMENTS
   
3.   REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
   
4.   ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
   
5.   EFFECTS OF ZONING
   
6.   SEVERABILITY
   
7.   ENFORCEMENT
   
8.   DEFINITIONS
   
9.   GENERAL, AGRICULTURAL, RESIDENTIAL AND RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONES
   
10.   RESIDENTIAL ZONES
   
11.   COMMERCIAL ZONES
   
12.   INDUSTRIAL ZONES
   
13.   SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONES
   
14.   SPECIAL USES AND CONDITIONS
   
15.   OFF-STREET PARKING
   
16.   SIGNS
   
17.   LIGHTING
   
18.   LANDSCAPING
   
19.   NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS
   
20.   ADMINISTRATION
   
21.   TUSAYAN AREA PLAN
SECTION 1:  PURPOSE AND SCOPE
Section
   
1.   Purpose and scope
§ 1  PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   For the purpose of implementing the goals, objectives and policies of the
Tusayan Area Plan, to promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare
of the people of Tusayan and to provide for the social, physical and economic
advantages resulting from comprehensive and orderly planned use of land
resources, a zoning ordinance establishing classifications of zones, and
regulations within those zones, hereby is established and adopted by the Mayor
and Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 2:  PRIVATE AGREEMENTS
Section
   
2.   Private agreements
§ 2  PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   The provisions of this code are not intended to abrogate any easements,
covenants or other existing agreements which are more restrictive than the
provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 3:  REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES
Section
   
3.   Repeal of conflicting ordinances
§ 3  REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   Whenever the provisions of this code impose more restrictive regulations
upon buildings or structures, and the use of them or the use of lands or
premises, and require larger open space or yards or setbacks than are imposed
or required by other ordinances, the provisions of this code, or rules or
regulations promulgated thereunder, shall govern.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 4:  ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES
Section
   
4.   Establishment of zones
§ 4 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONES.
   (A)   Division of  the town into zones. In order to classify, regulate,
restrict and separate the use of land, buildings and structures and to regulate
and to limit the type, height and bulk of buildings and structures in the
various districts and to regulate areas of yards and other open areas abutting
and between buildings and structures and to regulate the density of population,
the town hereby is divided into the following zones.
      (1)   General, Agricultural and Rural Residential Zones.
         (a)   G, General Zone;
         (b)   AR, Agricultural Residential Zone; and
         (c)   RR, Rural Residential Zone.
      (2)   Residential  Zones.
         (a)   RS-6000, Residential Single- Family Zone;
         (b)   RS-10000, Residential Single- Family Zone;
         (c)   RS-18000, Residential Single- Family Zone;
         (d)   RS-36000, Residential Single- Family Zone;
         (e)   RM-10/A, Residential Multiple Family Zone; and
         (f)   RM-20/A, Residential Multiple Family Zone.
      (3)   Commercial Zones.
         (a)   CN-2/A, Commercial Neighbor- hood Zone;
         (b)   CG-10000, Commercial General Zone; and
         (c)   CH-10000, Commercial Heavy Zone.
      (4)   Industrial Zones.
         (a)   MP-20000, Industrial Park Zone;
         (b)   M-1-10000, Light Industrial Zone; and
         (c)   M-2-6000, Heavy Industrial Zone.
      (5)   Special Use and Combining Zones.
         (a)   MHP, Manufactured Home Park Zone;
         (b)   PRD, Planned Residential Development;
         (c)   PC, Planned Community Zone;
         (d)   PS, Public and Semi-Public Zone;
         (e)   OS, Open Space and Conservation Zone;
         (f)   FPM, Floodplain Management Overlay Zone;
         (g)   RC, Resort Commercial Zone;
         (h)   P, Parking Zone;
         (i)   MR, Mineral Resource Zone; and
         (j)   RMH, Residential and Manu- factured Home Zone.
   (B)   Adoption of zones; maps. Said several zones and boundaries of said
zones and each of them hereby are established and adopted as shown, delineated
and designated on the “Official Zoning Maps” of the Town of Tusayan, Arizona,
which maps, together with all notations, references, data, zone boundaries and
other information thereon, is made a part hereof and adopted concurrently
herewith.
   (C)   Filing. The originals of the Official Zoning Maps shall be kept on
file with the office of the Town Manager and shall constitute the original
record.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 5:  EFFECTS OF ZONING
Section
   
5.   Effects of zoning
§ 5  EFFECTS OF ZONING.
   (A)   Application of provisions. The provisions of this code governing the
use of land, buildings and structures, the size of yards abutting buildings and
structures, the height and bulk of buildings, the density of population, the
number of dwelling units per acre, standards of performance and other
provisions hereby are declared to be in effect upon all land included within
the boundaries of each and every zone established by the code.
   (B)   Buildings under construction. Any building or structure for which a
building permit has been issued and which is still valid under the provisions
of earlier ordinances of the town or county which are in conflict with this
code nevertheless may be continued and completed in accordance with the plans
and specifications upon which the permit was issued.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 6:  SEVERABILITY
Section
   
6.   Severability
§ 6  SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this code,
or the application thereof to any person or place, is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of this code or its application to other persons or places. The Town
Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this code, and each section,
division, sentence, clause, phrase or portion thereof, irrespective of the fact
that any one or more sections, divisions, sentences, clauses, phrases or
portions, or the application thereof to any person or place, be declared
invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 7:  ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
7.0   Enforcement
   
7.1   Hearing Officer
   
7.2   Zoning Enforcement Officer
   
7.3   Hearing Officer procedure
   
7.4   Administrative review before the Town Council
   
7.5   Recall
§ 7.0  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, and considered a public nuisance per se, to make
use of any lot, parcel or piece of property in such a way as to conflict with
the provisions of the code. Likewise, it shall be in violation of this zoning
code to erect, construct, reconstruct, alter or use a building or any other
structure, or to use real property that does not conform to the criteria set
forth in this zoning code. The Tusayan Town Council, Town Attorney, Town
Marshal, Town Clerk, Town Manager and all officials charged with the issuance
of licenses or permits shall enforce the provisions of this zoning code. Any
permit, certificate or license issued in conflict with the provisions of this
zoning code shall be void. To provide for the enforcement of the zoning code,
the town may withhold all building permits and/or conditional use permits for
properties on which a use of the property, building or any other structure
exists which does not meet the standards of this zoning code.
   (B)   A Zoning Enforcement Officer shall investigate and report on all
notices of zoning violations. The Town Council shall appoint a Hearing Officer
to hear and determine zoning violations. Individuals determined by the Hearing
Officer to beviolating any provisions of this zoning code shall be responsible
for a zoning violation that is punishable by a civil sanction not to exceed the
equivalent of a maximum fine of a Class 2 misdemeanor for each violation
pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-240.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 7.1  HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Town Council shall periodically appoint a Hearing Officer to hear
and determine zoning code and other code violations. The Hearing Officer shall
not be a member of any town board or commission and shall not be an employee of
the town in any other capacity, except if the town elects to employ a person to
be the town’s Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer may have other
responsibilities pursuant to other sections of this code, but shall not be the
Town Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   An administrative review of decisions of the Hearing Officer by the
Town Council shall be available to any party to the hearing. Any appeal of the
Town Council’s decision shall be filed in Coconino County Superior Court.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 7.2  ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   ZONING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER shall mean the town’s Zoning Administrator
or his or her designee.
   (B)   The Zoning Enforcement Officer shall review all reported violations of
this zoning code.
   Upon receiving a report of a zoning violation, the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall inspect the site of the alleged violation. During an inspection,
the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall take careful and comprehensive notes as to
condition and existing uses of the subject property, location, property owner
and address, and specific section(s) of the zoning code corresponding to the
alleged violation.
   (C)   Should the Zoning Enforcement Officer determine that a violation is
occurring on the subject property, he or she shall serve notice to the property
owner/alleged violator of the violation. The notice of violation shall cite the
nature of the violation, the section of the zoning code violated, information
of possible penalties if violation has not ceased, steps necessary to bring the
subject property into compliance with the zoning regulations, and a reasonable
time frame in which all necessary actions should be completed to correct the
noticed violation.
   (D)   Re-inspection shall occur after the given deadline. If the violation
still exists at this time, a second notice shall be given to the property
owner/alleged violator. The second notice of violation shall set a final
deadline for compliance not to exceed two weeks. If the Zoning Enforcement
Officer is convinced an attempt is being made in the correction of the
violation, an additional extension not to exceed 30 days may be granted.
   (E)   If all reasonable attempts by town staff fail to resolve the violation
within the time specified in the second notice, or by the deadline of any
extension, a citation shall be issued for each specific section of the zoning
code which has been violated. The town shall use reasonable efforts to
personally serve the citation on the alleged violator by the Zoning Enforcement
Officer at least 17 days prior to the hearing. If the Zoning Enforcement
Officer is unable to personally serve the citation, the citation may be served
in the same manner prescribed for alternative methods of service by the Arizona
Rules of Civil Procedure. Violations for which citations are issued shall be
scheduled for a hearing before the Town Hearing Officer. If a citation is
served upon an alleged violator other than by personal service (i.e., certified
mail with return receipt), the hearing shall be set for a date no sooner than
30 days from the date indicated on the certified mail receipt. A notification
of the specific time and date by which the alleged violator must appear at the
Hearing Office to submit a plea shall be enclosed with the citation.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 7.3  HEARING OFFICER PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Commencement.
      (1)   Every action or proceeding brought before the Hearing Officer for a
violation of the zoning code shall be commenced by the filing of a zoning
violation citation by the Zoning Enforcement Officer. No notice shall be deemed
insufficient for failure to contain a definite statement of the essential facts
constituting the specific violation if the notice contains either a written
description or reference to the applicable section of the zoning code.
      (2)   Pursuant to §
7.2 of this zoning code, the alleged violator or his or her attorney shall
appear in front of the Hearing Officer by the date and time specified in the
notice accompanying the zoning citation, and may admit responsibility by
appearing in person or by mailing to the Hearing Office an appearance form
provided by the Hearing Officer or in lieu of such form, a short statement
signed by the alleged violator or his or her attorney, admitting the
allegations of the notice. Once a formal admission of responsibility is
received by the Hearing Officer, the Hearing Officer shall set a time and place
for the determination of the penalty for the violation. At the Hearing
Officer’s meeting, both the alleged violator and Zoning Enforcement Officer
shall be given an opportunity to state their positions on the amount of the
penalty to be imposed by the Hearing Officer.
   (B)   Counsel.
      (1)   Pursuant to §
7.2 of this zoning code, the alleged violator or his or her attorney shall
appear at the Hearing Office by the date specified in the notice accompanying
the zoning citation and may deny responsibility by appearing in person or by
mailing to the Hearing Officer an appearance form provided by the Hearing
Officer, or in lieu of such form, a denial signed by the alleged violator or
his or her attorney. Once a formal denial is received by the Hearing Officer,
the Hearing Officer shall schedule the matter for hearing and notify the
alleged violator, or his or her attorney, of the date, time and place for the
hearing.
      (2)   Upon appearance, it shall be the responsibility of the alleged
violator or his or her attorney to notify the Hearing Officer of an incorrect
address or any different address than what is set forth on the zoning citation.
         (a)   After the submittal of formal denial, the Hearing Officer shall
promptly notify the alleged violator of his or her right to be represented by
counsel. The alleged violator must notify the Hearing Officer in writing at
least ten days prior to the hearing date of his or her choice to be represented
by counsel. The Hearing Officer may move to continue a hearing if the alleged
violator does not make notification of his or her decision to secure counsel
within the aforementioned time frame.
         (b)   If the alleged violator fails to appear by the date and time
specified in the  notice accompanying the zoning citation, the allegations
filed against the alleged violator shall be deemed admitted, and the Hearing
Officer shall enter judgment for the town and impose a penalty, subject to this
zoning code.
         (c)   The town does not need to be represented by counsel at the
Hearing Officer’s meeting. Should the town elect to secure counsel, the town
must, in writing, notify the Hearing Officer and the alleged violator at least
ten days prior to the hearing of the town’s decision to be represented by
counsel.
         (d)   Within ten days prior to the hearing, both parties shall produce
for inspection by the opposing party a list of all witnesses and any prepared
exhibits to be on file at the Hearing Office. Failure to comply with this
provision may result in the granting of a continuance to permit such inspection
or denial of the admission of the evidence, at the Hearing Officer’s
discretion.
   (C)   Hearing Officer meeting.
      (1)   The order of the Hearing Officer proceeding shall be as follows:
         (a)   The Hearing Officer shall call the case and briefly describe the
procedures to be followed;
         (b)   Town’s statement;
         (c)   Testimony of the town’s witnesses;
         (d)   Respondent’s statement;
         (e)   Testimony of the respondent’s witnesses;
         (f)   Testimony of other attendees, at the discretion of the Hearing
Officer;
         (g)   Respondent’s rebuttal;
         (h)   Town’s rebuttal;
         (i)   Cross-examination of witnesses shall be strictly limited to
subjects or evidence elicited during direct testimony;
         (j)   Closing statement of the parties or their counsel; and
         (k)   Ruling by the Hearing Officer. At the conclusion of the hearing,
the Hearing Officer shall determine whether a zoning violation exists and, if a
violation is found to exist, may impose civil penalties in accordance with this
zoning code. A ruling shall include the findings, conclusions and opinions of
the Hearing Officer.
      (2)   At the discretion of the Hearing Officer, a hearing may be
continued for a period not exceeding 60 days if it appears that the interests
of justice sorequire. The Hearing Officer shall not continue a hearing without
first giving notice to both parties. The Hearing Officer shall notify both
parties in writing of the new hearing date.
      (3)   The Hearing Officer may question witnesses or representatives of
either party.
      (4)   The Arizona Rules of Evidence shall not apply before a Hearing
Officer. Any evidence offered may be admitted, subject to a determination by
the Hearing Officer that the offered evidence is relevant.
      (5)   Audio recordings of the hearing shall be made and kept on record at
the Hearing Office for a period of one year. In addition, a record of the
proceedings may be made by a court reporter if requested by the alleged
violator at the alleged violator’s expense.
      (6)   If the alleged violator fails to appear at the time set for the
hearing, the alleged violator shall be found to be in violation of the zoning
code, and the allegations filed against the violator shall be deemed admitted,
and the Hearing Officer shall enter finding for the town and may impose civil
sanction and report such judgment to the Zoning Enforcement Officer.
      (7)   If no witness for the town, excluding the alleged violator, appears
at the set time for the hearing, the Hearing Officer shall dismiss the citation
unless the Hearing Officer, for good cause shown, continues the hearing to
another date.
      (8)   At any time, the Hearing Officer may set aside a finding entered
upon a failure to appear if it is deemed by the Hearing Officer that the
alleged violator was not served a citation, or for any other reason where
necessary to prevent an injustice.
   (D)   Finding of responsibility/civil sanctions.
      (1)   If the alleged violator, after the hearing, is found responsible
for the zoning violation, the Hearing Officer shall enter a finding for the
town, and may impose a civil sanction not to exceed the equivalent of a maximum
fine not to exceed $750 per violation, per day.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer shall levy an initial fine reflecting a penalty
for the existing violation situation. The Hearing Officer has the option of
suspending the initial fine should extenuating circumstances exist.
      (3)   A non-compliance and daily penalty schedule shall be outlined in
the judgment to accrue should the violation not be abated by the compliance
date specified by the Hearing Officer.
      (4)   The Hearing Officer may attach a penalty for “recurrence” to a
parcel for maximum of two years from the hearing date. Said penalty shall be
levied if a violation of the same section of the ordinance, as addressed in the
Hearing Officer’s proceedings, occurs within the specified time period. A
recall notice shall be served and the alleged violator shall be scheduled to
appear at the earliest possible hearing date.
      (5)   The following guidelines shall be utilized when assessing
penalties:
                Use Type
                Residential/ Agricultural Commercial/ Industrial
Minimum Penalty
                             Use Type
                             Residential/ Agricultural Commercial/ Industrial
Minimum Penalty
   Daily                  $20                       $60
   Initial                $100                      $300
   Non-compliance         $200                      $600
   Recurrence             $300                      $500
Maximum Cumulative Amount of $1,500                    $10,500
Daily Penalty
NOTE TO TABLE:
A maximum penalty of $750 per day per violation is allowed in accordance with
a Class 2 Misdemeanor, subject to A.R.S. §§ 9-500.21.4 and 9-240
 
      (6)   Should the daily penalty balance exceed $1,500 for agricultural/
residential use, or $10,500 for commercial/industrial use, the matter shall be
forwarded to the Town Attorney for further legal action.
      (7)   The alleged violator, if found responsible for the zoning violation
and penalized with a civil sanction, shall not be relieved from the
responsibility of correcting any prohibited condition. Unless an administrative
review with the Town Council is scheduled within seven days from the date of
the hearing, the defendant shall correct the zoning violation within 30 days
from the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 7.4  ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW BEFORE THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any party may apply for an administrative review to the Town Council
for the final finding of the Hearing Officer. A written notice of the
administrative review shall be filed with the Hearing Officer within seven days
after the Hearing Officer’s finding.
   (B)   The notice of administrative review shall identify the finding(s) that
are to be reviewed. It shall be signed by the requestor or the requestor’s
counsel, and shall contain the names, addresses and telephone numbers of all
parties and their attorneys. When a party requests an administrative review,
the Hearing Officer shall send a copy of the notice of administrative review to
the other party or his or her attorney.
   (C)   Administrative reviews shall be limited to the record of the
proceeding before the Hearing Officer, and no new evidence may be introduced.
The record of the proceedings shall include all materials in the Hearing
Officer’s file, all evidence admitted at the hearing, and the official record
as per §
7.3(C)(5) of this zoning code.
   (D)   Upon receiving the notice request for administrative review, the
Hearing Officer shall, within 30 days, prepare and transmit the record and
schedule the administrative review before the Town Council.
   (E)   The parties may stipulate that the administrative review may be heard
on less than a complete record or upon stipulated facts. The designation of the
stipulated record shall be in writing, filed with the Hearing Officer within 15
days after the notice of administrative review.
   (F)   Upon sending the record to the Town Council, the Hearing Officer shall
notify both parties that they have five days from the date of the letter to
submit a memorandum stating the party’s position to be submitted at the Town
Counsel’s hearing. The memorandum shall be submitted to the Town Clerk and
shall not exceed five pages in length.
   (G)   A notice of administrative review before the Town Council shall be
posted at least 24 hours prior to the administrative review. The Hearing
Officer shall mail a notice of the administrative review to both parties not
less than five days prior to the meeting.
   (H)   The Mayor shall preside at the administrative review and shall decide
on all questions pertaining to procedure. Final decisions on the merits of the
case shall be made upon motion and majority vote of the quorum.
   (I)   At the Town Council’s administrative review, arguments on appeal shall
be limited to five minutes for each party unless extended by the Mayor.
   (J)   After consideration of the merits of an administrative review, the
Town Council may increase, decrease or modify any sanction imposed by the
Hearing Officer and may:
      (1)   Affirm the action of the Hearing Officer;
      (2)   Affirm in part and reverse in part and, if necessary, remand for
further proceedings; or
      (3)   Reverse the action of the Hearing Officer and, if necessary, remand
for further proceedings.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 7.5  RECALL.
   (A)   Recall of a case may occur when the conditions and/or compliance time
frame have not been met by the alleged violator. The Hearing Officer’s case is
considered to be an open case until complete compliance has been reached as
outlined in the Hearing Officer’s judgment.
   (B)   In the event that there is a penalty for recurrence, a recall notice
may be served in accordance with the procedures indicated in division (C)
below, only if the term of the recurrence penalty has not expired.
   (C)   Service of the recall notice shall be completed in person, by
certified mail, or alternate methods of service as prescribed in the Arizona
Rules of Civil Procedure, not less than 14 days prior to the hearing date.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 8:  DEFINITIONS
Section
   
8.   Definitions
§ 8  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this code, certain words, phrases and terms used
herein shall have the meaning assigned to them by this section. Certain special
definitions applicable only to the Floodplain Management Overlay Zone are
contained in §
13.6 of this code.
   (B)   When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future; words in the singular number include the plural; and
those in the plural number include the singular. The word “shall” is mandatory;
the word “may” is permissive.
      ABUT. To touch or adjoin along a common border or property line.
      ACCESS or ACCESS WAY. The means of ingress and egress connecting a site
to the public roadway system.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building, part of a building or structure, which is
incidental or subordinate to the main building or use on the same building
site.
      ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS. A portion of a single-family dwelling,
attached to the main dwelling, used by members of the family occupying the main
dwelling or their non-paying guests. Identifying characteristics include
attachment by heated living space or the sharing of a commonwall. ACCESSORY
LIVING QUARTERS may not be separated from the main dwelling by patios, garages,
carports, breezeways or other similar separations.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use incidental, related, appropriate and clearly
subordinate to the main use of the lot or building, which accessory use does
not alter the principal use of such lot or building.
      ADVERTISING DEVICE. Any figure, symbol, design, model or device, whether
it contains a lettered advertising message or not, used to attract attention or
convey a message and which is visible from any area outside a building.
ADVERTISING DEVICES include, but are not limited to, vehicles, vehicle parts,
wagons, trailers, railroad cars, shipping containers and goods for sale.
      AGRICULTURE. The tilling of the soil, raising of crops, horticulture,
viticulture, silviculture, small livestock farming, dairying and/or pasture and
range livestock production, including all uses customarily incidental thereto,
but not including slaughter houses, fertilizer yards or plants for the
reduction of animal matter or any other industrial use which is similarly
objectionable because of noise, odor, smoke, dust or fumes. AGRICULTURE does
not include the concentrated single-use operation of feed lots, hog, turkey,
chicken, fur-bearing animals or other similar farms, unless these operations
are operated in conjunction with or are a part of the crop production of the
same or adjoining parcels under common ownership.
      AIRPORT. Any area which is used or is intended to be used for the taking
off and landing of aircraft, including helicopters, and appurtenant areaswhich
are used or are intended to be used for airport building or facilities,
including open spaces, taxiways and tie-down areas.
      ALLEY. Any dedicated way, intended for vehicular service to the rear or
side of property served by a street. An ALLEY is not intended for general
traffic circulation.
      ANIMAL HOSPITAL. A place where animals are given medical or surgical
treatment and are cared for during the time of such treatment. Use as a kennel
shall be limited to short-time boarding and shall be only incidental to such
hospital use.
      APARTMENT. A building or portion thereof which is designed, built and
rented or leased for occupancy by one or more families living independently and
doing their own cooking in the same building. One or two APARTMENTS may exist
as accessory uses. Three or more attached APARTMENTS are a type of multi-family
dwelling.
      APARTMENT HOUSE. A multi-family dwelling consisting of three or more
attached dwelling units, each of which are for rent or lease.
      AREA PLAN. The Tusayan Area Plan adopted by the Mayor and Council of the
Town of Tusayan, Arizona.
      AUTO LUBRICATION AND OIL CHANGE OPERATION. Any building or premises used
primarily for the purpose of lubrication, fluid replenishment and oil changing.
Such servicing shall not entail the overnight storage of vehicles, nor shall
such services include tire recapping, wheel repair, sale or rebuilding of
engines, battery manufacturing or rebuilding, radiator repair, transmission
repair, engine steam cleaning, auto body work, welding, reupholstering or
installation of auto glass.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any premises used or intended to be used for
the retail sales of vehicular fuels and for servicing and light maintenance
activities such as engine tune-ups, lubrication, sale and service of tires and
batteries, and minor repairs. SERVICE STATIONS shall not include premises where
heavy automobile maintenance activities such as engine overhauls, painting,
body repair and transmission repair are conducted. SERVICE STATIONS shall
entail only incidental overnight parking of vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD. The dismantling or wrecking of motor vehicles
or trailers, or the storage, sale or dumping of dismantled, partially
dismantled, obsolete or wrecked vehicles or their parts, outside of an enclosed
building, but not including the incidental storage of vehicles in connection
with the operation of a repair garage, providing the repair period for any one
vehicle does not exceed 30 days.
      AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR GARAGE. An establishment engaged in furnishing
automotive and light-truck repair and servicing to the general public. These
facilities shall not include tire recapping or battery manufacturing or
rebuilding.
      BANNER. A temporary sign made of pliable material that may or may not be
located in a rigid frame.
      BANNER, COMMUNITY. A banner that provides notice of a community event or
celebration.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      BASEMENT. A story partly or wholly underground. A BASEMENT shall be
counted as a story for purpose of height measurement where more than one-half
of its height is above grade.
      BED AND BREAKFAST ESTAB- LISHMENT. A portion of a single-family dwelling
in which one or two bedrooms are completely furnished guest rooms occupied, or
intended to be occupied, on a nightly basis for compensation. See §
14.4.
      BILLBOARD. Any sign designated for use with changing advertising copy and
which is normallyused for the advertisement of goods produced or services
rendered at locations other than the premises on which the sign is located.
      BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board of Adjustment of the Town of Tusayan,
Arizona.
      BOARD OF SUPERVISORS. The Board of Supervisors of Coconino County,
Arizona.
      BORROW PIT. Any place or premises where dirt, soil, sand, gravel or other
earthy material is removed by excavation for any purpose other than that
necessary and incidental to grading or to building construction or operation on
the premises.
      BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls.
      BUILDING FRONT. The side of a building which contains the main entrance
for pedestrian ingress and egress and which faces the street or access
easement. On a corner lot, the side of the building with the smallest lineal
dimension containing a main entrance shall be considered the BUILDING FRONTAGE.
The FRONT may be designated by the owner if the orientation is consistent with
other lots and improvements in the immediate vicinity.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average line of the
highest point and lowest points of the preexisting natural grade of that
portion of the lot covered by the building to the highest point of the coping
of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof or to the highest point of
the highest gable of a pitch or hip roof.
      BUILDING PERMIT. A permit required for the erection, construction,
replacement, repair, use and occupancy, demolition, modification, addition to
or moving of any building, structure or any appurtenances connected or attached
to such building or structure in the Town of Tusayan, pursuant to Building
Codes adopted by the Mayor and Council of the Town of Tusayan.
      BUILDING SITE. A legally created parcel or contiguous parcels of land in
single or joint ownership, which provides the area and the open space required
by this code, exclusive of all vehicular and pedestrian rights-of-way and all
other easements that prohibit the surface use of the property by the owner
thereof. Private easements providing access to four or less parcels shall not
be deducted from the BUILDING SITE area.
      CABANA. Any portable, demountable, room, enclosure or other building or
structure erected, constructed or placed on a mobile home space and used in
conjunction with a mobile home.
      CAMPGROUND. A plot of ground for overnight or limited camping. A
CAMPGROUND may be occupied by tents, recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
      CANOPY. A roof-like structure supported by a permanent foundation and
open on all four sides.
      CARPORT. A permanent roofed structure or a portion of a main structure
with not more than two enclosed sides used or intended to be used for
automobile storage for the occupants of the premises.
      CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the dead,
and dedicated for such purposes, including columbariums, crematoriums,
mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in conjunction with and within the
boundaries of such premises.
      CLUB. An association of persons (whether or not incorporated) for a
common purpose, but not including groups organized solely or primarily to
render a service as a business for profit.
      COMMERCIAL MACHINERY. Any motorized or non-motorized piece of machinery
designed for construction, demolition, excavation, logging, shipping,
warehousing, freight hauling and the like, including, but not limited to,
backhoes,bulldozers, equipment trailers, forklifts, front-end loaders and the
like.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any bus, truck or truck tractor having a gross
vehicle weight over 26,000 pounds; or trailer, or semi-trailer, aggregate
hauling trailer, logging trailer and the like, not including water hauling tank
truck, or tank trailer for purposes of transporting water for personal use.
      COMMISSION. The Town of Tusayan Planning and Zoning Commission.
      COMMUNICATION TOWER.
         (a)   A freestanding structure including appurtenances (greater than
34 feet in height) used for the following commercial communication purposes:
            1.   VHF and UHF television;
            2.   AM and FM radio;
            3.   Two-way radio:
            4.   Common carriers;
            5.   Cellular telephone; and
            6.   Microwave.
         (b)   Amateur (HAM) towers for the personal use of the property owner
are excepted from this definition unless in excess of 100 feet in height.
      COMMUNITY SERVICE AGENCY. An organization such as YMCA, YWCA, Boy Scouts,
Girl Scouts, Campfire or any similar organization organized as a non-profit
corporation or supported in whole or in part by public subscription and
primarily established to serve the social or welfare needs of the community or
any part thereof, and not organized for the personal profit of any individual,
group of individuals or corporation.
      CONDOMINIUM. An estate in real property consisting of an undivided
interest in common in a portion of a parcel of real property together with a
separate interest in space in a residential complex located on such real
property. A CONDOMINIUM may include, in addition, a separate interest in other
portions of such real property.
      CONDOMINIUM CONVERSION. The development of land and existing structures
as a condominium, regardless of the present or prior use of such land or
structure, and regardless of whether substantial improvements have been made to
such structures.
      CONTRACTOR’S YARD. The use of any lot or parcel of land for the
commercial or non-commercial parking, storage, maintenance of commercial
vehicles; and/or more than one piece of commercial machinery; and/or outdoor
storage of building materials, aggregates, lumber, piping, vehicle parts, tires
and the like.
      CONVALESCENT HOME. A facility licensed by the State Department of Public
Health, the State Department of Social Welfare or Coconino County, which
provides bed and ambulatory care for patients with post-operative convalescent,
chronically ill or dietary problems and aged or infirm persons unable to care
for themselves.
      CONVENIENCE MARKET. A retail store that is intended to attract stop-and-
go traffic, with or without gasoline sales, and sell primarily food, beverages
and other household supplies to customers who purchase only a few items.
      COTTAGE INDUSTRY. A more intensive home occupation which may be carried
out in an accessory structure.
      COUNTY. The County of Coconino, State of Arizona.
      COUNTY RECORDER. The County Recorder of the County of Coconino.
      DAY CARE CENTER. Any child care arrangement that provides care and/or
supervision for six or fewer children for compensation.
      DENSITY. The total number of dwelling units permitted on an acre of land
exclusive of all streets and rights-of-way that restrict the surface use of the
property in question.
      DETACHED (FREESTANDING) SIGN. A ground sign with no form of support other
than its own structural members.
      DOMESTIC FARM-TYPE ANIMALS. Horses, cattle, sheep, goats and swine or
other cleft-hoof domestic animals.
      DORMITORY. A building intended or used primarily for sleeping
accommodations, where such building is related to an educational or religious
institution or for employee housing associated with a commercial enterprise.
For purposes of calculating density, three DORM rooms shall be equivalent to
one dwelling unit.
      DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces only, with each face oriented
180 degrees from the other.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. An establishment that primarily delivers prepared
food and/or beverages to customers in motor vehicles or to customers at a
service window for consumption either on or off the premises.
      DRIVE-IN THEATER. An outdoor structure designed for theatrical
performances, displays or shows where the performance is viewed by all or part
of the audience from a vehicle.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed exclusively for
residential occupancy in conformance with the provisions of the Building Code
adopted by the  town.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by
three or more families living independently of each other.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit designed for the use of
one family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential structure on a single lot containing
two dwelling units; also know as a DUPLEX.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms and a single kitchen or cooking
accommodation and a bathroom in a single-family dwelling, two-family dwelling,
apartment house, multi-family dwelling or hotel designed as a unit for
occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes.
      EASEMENT. A space on a lot or parcel of land reserved or used for the
location of and/or access to utilities, drainage or other physical operations
on the land.
      EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.
         (a)   Public and other non-profit institutions conducting regular
academic instruction at preschool, kindergarten, elementary, secondary,
collegiate levels and including graduate schools, universities, non-profit
research institutions and religious institutions. Such INSTITUTIONS must
either:
            1.   Offer general academic instructions;
            2.   Confer degrees as a college or university of undergraduate or
graduate standing;
            3.   Conduct research; or
            4.   Give religious instruction.
         (b)   This definition does not include commercial or trade schools.
      FAMILY. Any number of individuals related by blood, marriage or legal
adoption, or a group of not more than five unrelated persons living together as
a single housekeeping unit in a single dwelling unit sharing common cooking
facilities.
      FLOODPLAIN DEFINITIONS. See §
13.6.
      FLOOR AREA. The total area of a building measured by taking the outside
dimensions of thebuilding at each floor level intended for occupancy or
storage, but excluding courts, carports and garages used for the parking of
motor vehicles.
      FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting a street.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or a portion of a main
building on the same lot for the parking and temporary storage of vehicles of
the occupants of the premises.
      GRADE. The average level of the finished ground surfaces surrounding a
building.
      GRAZING. The feeding of domestic livestock on an open range or fenced
pasture for commercial purposes and uses customarily incidental thereto, but
not including slaughter houses, stockyards, packing houses, bone yards or
plants for the reduction of animal matter.
      GROSS AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot or
parcel of land before public streets, easements or other areas to be dedicated
or reserved for public use are deducted from such lot or parcel.
      GROSS VEHICLE WEIGHT. The weight of the vehicle or vehicle combination
together with the weight of the maximum load to be carried thereon at any one
time; or, the declared gross weight per current vehicle registration.
      GROUP HOME FOR THE HANDICAPPED. A facility licensed or authorized by a
governmental authority having jurisdiction over operations for ten or fewer
handicapped persons who reside together as a single housekeeping unit and who
receive care, supervision or counseling from one or more staff persons. This
use includes assisted living homes, homes for the mentally ill, group care
agencies and similar residential living arrangements for handicapped persons,
but shall not include boarding houses, nursing homes or other group homes not
for the handicapped.
      GUEST HOUSE. A detached habitable structure used by members of the family
occupying the main dwelling and their non-paying guests.
      HEARING OFFICER. The Hearing Officer of the Town of Tusayan.
      HELIPORT. A place designed or designated for the landing and taking off
of helicopters.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling
and carried on by the inhabitants thereof, which use is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the structure for dwelling purposes and which use does
not change the character thereof or does not adversely effect the uses
permitted in the zone of which it is a part.
      HOSPITAL. An institution for the diagnosis, care and treatment of human
illness, including surgery and primary treatment.
      HOTEL or MOTEL. A structure or portion thereof or a group of attached or
detached structures containing completely furnished individual guest rooms or
suites occupied less than 30 days, by any one individual or group of
individuals, for compensation.
      INDUSTRY. The excavation, transporting, manufacture, fabrication,
processing, reduction or destruction of any article, substance or commodity, or
any other treatment thereof in such a manner as to change the form, character
or appearance thereof, and including storage elevators, truck storage yards,
warehouses, wholesale storage and other similar types of enterprise.
      INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any whole, dismantled, partially dismantled or
obsolete vehicle which cannot be started and driven under its own power.
      JUNK YARD. The use of more than the allowable square footage of any lot
or parcel of landregardless of zone classification for the outdoor storage of
any used or secondhand materials, including, but not limited to, lumber, auto
parts, household appliances, pipe, fencing, drums, machinery or furniture.
      KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any kennel maintained for the purpose of boarding,
breeding, raising or training dogs or cats over the age of four months for a
fee or for sale.
      KENNEL, NON-COMMERCIAL. Any property where five or more dogs and/or cats,
over the age of four months, are kept or maintained for the use and enjoyment
of the occupant for non- commercial purposes.
      KITCHEN. Any room or portion thereof in a building or dwelling unit which
is used or intended to be used for cooking or the preparation of food.
      LANDSCAPING. The placement of trees, shrubs, vegetative and organic or
inorganic materials in a prescribed area. Organic and inorganic materials
include gravel, cinders, rock and bark materials.
      LARGE RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. A retail establishment (store) with any
commercial retail uses or a combination of such commercial retail uses
comprised of greater than 25,000 square feet and less than 70,000 square feet
of gross floor area. The 25,000 square feet of floor area includes gross floor
area and ancillary outdoor storage or merchandise display areas. The floor area
does not include motor vehicle parking or loading areas. For the purpose of
determining the applicability of the 25,000 square feet of floor area, the
aggregate square footage of all adjacent stores which share common check
stands, management, a controlling ownership interest and storage areas, shall
be considered one ESTABLISHMENT (e.g., a plant nursery associated with a
general merchandise area such as a home improvement area).
      LOT.
         (a)   A parcel of real property with a separate and distinct number or
other designation shown on a plan recorded in the office of the County
Recorder;
         (b)   A parcel of real property delineated on an approved record of
survey, parcel map or subdivision map as filed in the office of the County
Recorder  and abutting at least one public street or right-of-way or easement
determined by the Commission to be adequate for the purpose of access; or
         (c)   A parcel of real property abutting at least one public street or
right-of-way or easement determined by the Commission to be adequate for the
purpose of access and held under separate ownership from abutting property
prior to the date of adoption of this code.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection or interception of two or
more streets at an angle of not more than 135 degrees. If the angle is greater
than 135 degrees, the lot shall be considered an “interior lot”.
      LOT (SITE) COVERAGE. The portion of a lot or building site which is
occupied by any building or structure, excepting paved areas, uncovered parking
areas, driveways, walks, lanais, terraces, swimming pools and landscaped areas.
      LOT DEPTH. The average horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT LINE. Any line bounding a lot, as herein defined.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. On an interior lot shall mean the property line abutting
the street. On a corner lot, the FRONT LOT LINE is the shorter property line
abutting a street, except in those cases where the subdivision or parcel map
specifies another line as the front lot line. On a through lot or a lot with
three or more sides abutting a street or a corner lot with lot lines of equal
length, the Town Manager or designeeshall determine which property line shall
be the FRONT LOT LINE for purposes of compliance with yard and setback
provisions of this code. On a private street or easement, the FRONT LOT LINE
shall be designated as the edge of the easement.
      LOT LINE, INTERIOR. A lot line not abutting a street.
      LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line not abutting a street which is opposite and
most distant from the front lot line. In the case of an irregular-shaped lot, a
line within the lot, parallel to and at a maximum distance from the front lot
line, having a length of not less than ten feet. A lot which is bounded on all
sides by streets may have no REAR LOT LINES.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line which is not a front or rear lot line.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two dedicated parallel or
approximately parallel streets.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured
at right angles to the lot depth at a point midway between the front and rear
lot lines.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit built after 6-15-1976 to standards
established by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with
a HUD seal affixed, and which is designed to be used as a year-round dwelling
when connected to the required utilities. A MANUFACTURED HOME is not a mobile
home, travel trailer, park model or recreational vehicle.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any area or tract of land where one or more
manufactured home spaces are rented or leased or held out for rent or lease to
accommodate manufactured homes, or park models.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot of ground within a mobile home park or
manufactured home park designed for the accommodation of one manufactured home.
      MOBILE HOME. A dwelling unit built prior to 6-15-1976, on a permanent
chassis, capable of being transported in one or more sections and designed to
be used with or without a permanent foundation as a residence. A MOBILE HOME is
not a recreational vehicle, travel trailer, park model or manufactured home.
      MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit which is pre-assembled in whole or in part
in a factory prior to delivery to the job site for final assembly, and which
conforms to the following:
         (a)   Built to Building Code standards including local amendments;
         (b)   Built with exterior materials customarily used on conventional
site-built dwellings (e.g., wood siding, asphalt roof shingles);
         (c)   Minimum roof pitch of three in 12;
         (d)   Minimum one-foot overhang on all four sides;
         (e)   Minimum width of 20 feet; and
         (f)   Constructed to be set on a permanent foundation similar to site
built dwellings (e.g., footings and stem walls or piers, in compliance with the
adopted Building Code for the Town of Tusayan).
      MOTEL. The same as HOTEL.
      NET AREA. The total horizontal area within the property lines of a lot or
parcel of land excluding all vehicular access ways, except those private
easements which serve as primary access to no more than four individual lots or
parcels.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction”
commenced on or after the effective date of this code.
      NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS. See §
19.
      OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV). Any motorized vehicle designed for use off
paved roadways, and shall include motorcycles, motorbikes, three-wheelers,
quads, four-wheel drive vehicles, snowmobiles, go carts, sandrails and any
similar vehicle.
      OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE FACILITY. A track or other constructed facility,
generally with berms, hills, banked turns and other grading, but possibly
created by simply driving over an area to create a track over which vehicles
would traverse repetitively for recreational purposes. The FACILITY may be for
either personal or commercial use.
      PARK TRAILER or PARK MODEL. A recreational vehicle, typically 12 feet in
width, that is built on a single chassis, mounted on wheels, designed to be
connected to utilities necessary for operation of installed fixtures and
appliances and has a gross trailer area of not less than 320 square feet and
not more than 400 square feet; except that, it does not include fifth-wheel
trailers.
      PARKING AREA. An area designed and constructed for the parking, storage
and maneuvering of vehicles.
      PARKING SPACE. A space within a public or private parking area, exclusive
of driveways, ramps, columns, offices and work areas, which space is for the
temporary parking or storage of one motor vehicle.
      PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOP- MENT. Two or more dwelling units, including
dwelling units in developments commonly known as town housing or row housing,
condominiums and cluster housing, together with related land, buildings and
structures, planned and developed as a whole in a single development operation
or a programmed series of operations in accordance with detailed, comprehensive
plans encompassing such elements as the circulation pattern and parking
facilities, open space, recreational areas, utilities and lots or building
sites, together with a program for provision, operation and maintenance of all
areas, improvements, facilities and services provided for common use of the
residents thereof.
      PRESCHOOL. The use of any building or structure, in conjunction with any
child care arrangement that provides care, supervision, education or
instruction for more than six preschool-aged children.
      PROJECTING SIGN. A sign attached to a building wall or structure that
extends horizontally more than 12 inches from the face of the wall.
      PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATION. All above-ground buildings, structures and
related equipment for electric, telephone and cable television, water
distribution, wastewater treatment and natural gas, and all facilities
necessary for conducting a service by a governmental entity or by a public
utility, non-profit organization or corporation. Transmission and distribution
lines and supporting structures are excepted.
      RECREATION FACILITIES. Those buildings, structures or areas built or
developed for purposes of entertaining, exercising or observing various
activities participated in either actively or passively by individuals or
organized groups.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular- type unit primarily designed as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping or travel use, which either
has its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. A plot of ground with facilities for the
temporary occupancy (overnight accommodation), parking and maneuvering of
recreational vehicles (motor homes, travel trailers, campers and the like) with
adequate roads and stall sites, including sanitary and water facilities. Site
locations are provided on a day-by-day basis.
      RECYCLING CENTER. A building within which recoverable resources such as
newspapers, glass and cans are collected, separated and processed essentially
by hand prior to shipment to others for usein the manufacture of new products.
This does not include a junk yard.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. An incidental use that serves as a
neighborhood drop-off point for temporary storage of recoverable resources.
Such facilities would consist of small enclosed containers, and would generally
be located in shopping center parking lots or other public/ quasi-public area
such as at schools or churches.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment which serves food or beverages only to
persons seated within or adjacent to a building and including cafés, coffee
shops and tea rooms.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. An easement or other legal right of passage over another
person’s land or a strip of land over which a road is built.
      ROOF SIGN. A sign erected over or on, and wholly or partially dependent
upon the roof of any building for support, or attached to the roof in any way.
This definition shall also include any sign painted directly on a roof.
      SETBACK. The distance between the established lot line and any building.
      SETBACK LINE, FRONT YARD. The line which defines the depth of the
required front yard. Said SETBACK LINE shall be parallel with the street line
and be removed therefrom by the perpendicular distance prescribed for the front
yard of the zone in which the property is located.
      SETBACK LINE, REAR YARD OR SIDE YARD. The line which defines the width or
depth of the required rear or side yard. Said SETBACK LINE shall be parallel
with the property line, removed therefrom by the perpendicular distance
prescribed for the yard of the zone in which the property is located. Where the
side or rear yard abuts a street, the distance shall be measured as set forth
in the definition of SETBACK LINE, FRONT YARD.
      SIGN. Any notice, advertising device or advertisement, pictorial or
otherwise, used as an outdoor display or visible from outside a building for
the purpose of advertising the property or the establishment or enterprise,
including goods and services, upon which the sign is exhibited, or for use for
off-site directional purposes. This definition shall not include official
notices issued by any court or public body or officer or directional warning or
information sign or structure required by or authorized by law.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISE. Any notice, or advertising device, or advertisement
which is erected on the ground or upon a building that does not pertain to the
use of the property on which displayed.
      SITE. A parcel of land, subdivided or unsubdivided, occupied or to be
occupied by a use or structure.
      SITE PLAN. A plan, prepared to scale, showing accurately and with
complete dimensioning, all of the buildings, structures and uses and the exact
manner of development proposed for a specific parcel of land.
      STABLE, COMMERCIAL. A structure or site for horses, mules or ponies which
is rented, used or boarded on a commercial basis for compensation.
      STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for the keeping of horses, mules
or ponies owned by the occupants of the premises and not rented, used or
boarded on a commercial basis for compensation.
      STATE. The State of Arizona.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above
it, then the space between such floor and the ceiling next above it.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare or right-of-way or approved private
thoroughfare orright-of-way determined by the Commission to be adequate for the
purpose of access, which affords the principal means of access for abutting
property including avenue, place, way, drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road
and any other thoroughfare, except as excluded in this code. The word STREET
shall include all major and secondary highways, collector streets and local
streets, but shall not include alleys.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in or alteration to a structure
involving a bearing wall, column, beam or girder, floor or ceiling joists, roof
rafters, roof diaphragms, foundations, piles, retaining walls or similar
components.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, any edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner, which requires location on or in the
ground or is attached to something having a location on or in the ground,
including, but not limited to, manufactured homes, mobile homes, modular homes
and buildings, signs, pre-fab storage sheds, light standards, flag poles,
church spires, antennas, swimming and wading pools, and covered patios,
excepting paved areas, concrete walks, tennis courts and similar outdoor areas,
and further excepting fences and walls three feet or less in height.
      SUPERMARKET. A market having 10,000 square feet or more of floor area
devoted principally to the sale of food.
      TEMPORARY BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A banner that is installed on the
wall of a new business during the period of time that the permanent business
identification sign is in the town’s sign approval process.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Tusayan, Arizona.
      TRAILER PARK OR COURT. Facilities for the storage, parking and
maneuvering of recreational vehicles, park models or travel trailers with
adequate road and stall sites, and providing adequate sanitation and water
facilities required to meet the needs of the residents. Site location is
provided on a rent or lease basis.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A self-contained vehicle without motive power, portable
structure with wheels built on a chassis, designed as a temporary dwelling for
travel recreation and vacation purposes, having a body width not exceeding
eight feet and its body length does not exceed 40 feet.
      TRIPLEX. A multi-family dwelling on a single lot designed for occupancy
by three families living independently of each other.
      TRUCK STOP. A facility for servicing trucks and tractor trailers, with or
without a convenience market. One or more of the following uses shall
constitute a TRUCK STOP:
         (a)   Four or more diesel fuel pumps;
         (b)   Two or more truck washing bays; and
         (c)   Facilities for the repair of diesel engines.
      TRUCK YARD. The parking, storage or maintenance of two or more commercial
vehicles on any given lot or parcel of land.
      UNLICENSED VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is not currently licensed in
the state.
      USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or
intended, or for which either land or a building is or may be occupied or
maintained.
      VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this code which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
code.
      WAREHOUSE. A building or portion thereof used for the commercial storage
of goods or merchandise and where no retail or wholesale operations are
conducted at the site.
      WAREHOUSING. The use of a building or buildings for the storage of goods
of any type, when such building or buildings contain more than 500 square feet
of storage space and where no retail operation is conducted.
      WATERCOURSE. Any lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or
other course through which waters flow at least periodically. The term may
include specifically designated areas in which substantial flood damage may
occur.
      WHOLESALE. The sale of any type of goods or materials for the purpose of
resale. Businesses that have both retail and WHOLESALE sales shall be
considered wholesale if at least 51% of their sales volume is wholesale sales.
      WINDOW SIGN. A sign, which is displayed in a window so as to be visible
beyond the boundaries of the parcel upon which such signs are displayed.
      YARD. Any open space on the same lot with a building or dwelling, which
open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground to the sky, except
for the projections permitted by this code.
      YARD, FRONT. A space between the front yard setback line and the front
lot line or future street line, and extending the full width of the lot.
      YARD, REAR. A space between the rear yard setback line and the rear lot
line, extending the full width of the lot.
      YARD, SIDE. A space extending from the front yard, or from the front lot
line where no front yard is required by this code, to the rear yard, or rear
lot line, between a side lot line and the side yard setback line.
      ZONE. A classification established by this code which limits or permits
various and specific uses.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The staff position created for the purpose of
administration of the zoning code. The Town Manager shall serve as the ZONING
ADMINISTRATOR.
      ZONING ORDINANCE or ORDINANCE. The zoning code of the Town of Tusayan,
Arizona.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 9:  GENERAL, AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL AND RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Section
   
9.0   Purposes
   
9.1   Permitted and conditional uses
   
9.2   Reserved
   
9.3   Property development standards: G, AR and RR Zones
   
9.4   Performance standards: G, AR and RR Zones
   
9.5   Signs: G, AR and RR Zones
   
9.6   Accessory structures: G, AR and RR Zones
   
9.7   Walls and fences: G, AR and RR Zones
§ 9.0  PURPOSES.
   (A)   General. In addition to the objectives outlined in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the General, Agricultural Residential and Rural
Residential Zones are included in the zoning regulations to achieve the
following purposes:
      (1)   To reserve areas of the town for light agricultural pursuits in
conjunction with very low density residential uses and thereby preserve rural
living; and
      (2)   To provide space for people, minimize traffic congestion and
maintain the existing rural environment in certain parts of town.
   (B)   G, General Zone.
      (1)   This zone is a general rural land use category intended for
application to those areas of the town not specifically designated in any other
zone classification.
      (2)   Only those uses are permitted which are complementary and
compatible with a rural environment.
   (C)   AR, Agricultural Residential Zone. This zone is intended to designate
areas of the town for low density residential use on minimum lot sizes of one
acre where those light agricultural activities can be conducted which are
related to rural family living and pursuits.
   (D)   RR, Rural Residential Zone.
      (1)   This zone is intended to designate areas of the town for low
density residential use on minimum lot sizes of one acre where those light
agricultural activities can be conducted which are related to rural family
living and pursuits.
      (2)   The zone is similar to AR, but prohibits mobile and manufactured
homes.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 9.1  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted where the symbol “P” appears and
shall be permitted uses, subject to a conditional use permit where the symbol
“C” appears in the column beneath each zone designation.
   (B)   All uses not listed are prohibited.
   (C)   For uses similar to those listed, see §
20.1.
      (1)   Residential uses.
 
                                                             G AR RR
Manufactured home                                            P P  -
Single-family dwelling or modular home                       P P  P
Travel trailer (8-foot x 32-foot minimum size) or park model C C  -
 
      (2)   Agricultural and related uses.
 G AR RR
                                                                                 G AR RR
Animal hospitals and veterinary facilities                                       C C  C
Aviaries and apiaries                                                            P P  P
Boarding of 1 or 2 horses for a fee                                              P P  P
Cattle and sheep ranch operations                                                C C  C
Commercial agriculture on parcels of 5 acres or more                             C C  C
Commercial fertilizer operations                                                 C C  C
Commercial kennels                                                               C C  C
Dairy farms                                                                      C C  C
Feed stores                                                                      C C  C
Non-commercial kennels                                                           P P  P
Parking or storage of no more than 1 commercial vehicle exceeding 26,000 gvw     C C  C
Riding academies or riding clubs                                                 C C  C
The keeping of poultry or rabbits for non-commercial purposes at least 100 feet  P P  P
from a residence belonging to other persons
The keeping of poultry or rabbits for commercial purposes                        C C  C
The keeping of wild, exotic or non-domesticated animals                          C C  C
The keeping or raising of animals for commercial purposes including commercial   C C  C
stables where more than 2 horses are boarded
   —For the commercial boarding of more than 2 horses, a minimum of 5 acres in
gross area is required
The non-commercial keeping of horses and other domestic farm-type animals not
including chickens, rabbits or common household pets, subject to the following   P P  P
conditions
   —A minimum of 1 acre of land shall be required for the maintenance of such
animals
   —3 such animals may be maintained on the first acre and up to 1 additional
animal for each additional 1/2 acre
   —No such animal may be sheltered, fed or watered closer than 100 feet to a
residence occupied by other persons
   —The keeping of all animals shall be subject to the regulations and
conditions of the Coconino County Health Department and Animal Control Division
 
      (3)   Public and semi-public uses.
 G AR RR
                                                                       G AR RR
Airports, landing fields, heliports and related activities and uses    C C  C
Cemeteries, human and pet                                              C C  C
Churches, convents, monasteries and other religious institutions       C C  C
Community service agency camps                                         C C  C
Day care center                                                        P P  P
Educational institutions, public or private                            C C  C
Group homes for the handicapped, subject to the provisions in §       P P  P
14.6
Hospitals                                                              C C  C
Libraries and museums                                                  C C  C
Off-highway vehicle facilities                                         C -  -
Other group homes                                                      C C  C
Preschool                                                              C C  C
Public parks and recreational facilities                               P P  P
Public utility and public service sub-stations, reservoirs, pumping    C C  C
plants and similar installations, not including public utility offices
Recreational facilities such as rodeos, hunting/riding clubs, country
clubs, tennis and swim clubs, golf courses, with incidental limited    C C  C
commercial uses which are commonly associated and directly related to
the primary use
Sanitary landfill operations                                           C C  -
 
      (4)   Other uses.
 G AR RR
                                                                         G AR RR
Borrow pits                                                              C C  -
Firewood storage and sales yards                                         C C  -
Lumber mills                                                             C -  -
Mineral extraction operations                                            C C  -
Soil and water resource conservation projects                            P P  P
Solar and geothermal stations                                            C C  C
Wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the provisions of §  C C  C
14.5
 
      (5)   Home occupations.
 
                                                     G AR RR
Cottage industries, subject to the provisions of §  C C  C
14.3
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of §    P P  P
14.2
 
      (6)   Accessory uses.
 G AR RR
                                                                                  G AR RR
Accessory uses and structures on the same site as a conditional use               C C  C
Accessory uses and structures on the same site as a permitted use, subject to the
provisions of §                                                                  P P  P
9.6
   —Accessory structures in excess of 3,000 square feet                      C C  C
Guest house or accessory living quarters, subject to the following conditions:    P P  P
   —A deed restriction shall be recorded prior to issuance of a building permit
indicating that the accessory unit is for family or guests and not for rental
   —Accessory living quarters and guest houses are limited to 50% of the livable
square footage of the main dwelling up to a maximum of 800 square feet for a
detached guest house or 1,000 square feet for attached accessory living quarters
   —All utilities must be on the same meters as the principal dwelling
   —Application for a conditional use permit can be requested for a modification
to existing structures that may not be in compliance with the limits of these
provisions
   —Attached accessory living quarters are permitted regardless of parcel size.
Detached guest houses are permitted only on parcels of 2 acres or larger
   —Kitchens are allowed
   —Maximum separation between the main dwelling and guest house shall be 60 feet
   —Travel trailers, manufactured homes and mobile homes are not allowed as guest
houses or accessory living quarters
Metal storage containers                                                          See §
                                                                                  14.7
 
      (7)   Temporary uses.
 
                                          G AR RR
Model homes and subdivision sales offices C C  C
Temporary uses as prescribed in §        P P  P
14.1
 
      (8)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
 
                                                                   G AR RR
Bed and breakfast establishments, subject to the provisions of §  C C  C
14.4
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 9.2  RESERVED.
§ 9.3  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: G, AR AND RR ZONES.
   (A)   General. The following property development standards shall apply to
all land and buildings, other than accessory buildings, permitted in their
respective zones; except that, any lot shown on an official subdivision map
that was duly approved and recorded, or any lot for which a bonafide deed was
duly recorded in conformance with the zoning in effect prior to the date of
adoption of this code may be used as a building site; excepting therefrom any
lot having an area of less than 6,000 square feet. For access purposes, each
building site shall have a minimum 30-foot wide easement or right-of-way. A
turnaround with a minimum radius of 25 feet shall be provided at the end of
each easement over 150 feet in length. No fences or other obstructions shall be
placed in the easement area, except with written permission of all other
property owners served by the easement. For any parcel of land created after 1-
3-1995, an access road to the parcel must be provided prior to the delivery of
any combustible building materials. Said access road must be constructed to an
all weather standard.
   (B)   Special requirements.
      (1)   In the AR and RR Zone, the minimum lot size shall be one acre.
However, larger minimum lot sizes may be specified and designated on the
Official Zoning Map by attaching a number designation following the zone
classification: such number shall be in increments of one-half acre. For
example, “AR-2” means “Agricultural Residential - two-acre minimum lot size”;
“AR-2-1/2” means “Agricultural Residential - two and one-half acre minimum lot
size”; and the like.
      (2)   In the G, AR and RR Zones, structures permitted under §
9.1(C)(3), Public and Semi-Public Uses, §
9.1(C)(4), and Other Uses, shall maintain a minimum setback of 50 feet from all
property lines. Interior side and rear setback areas may be used for off-street
parking, landscaping and recreational purposes.
      (3)   A travel trailer, park model or fifth-wheel trailer, but not a
recreational vehicle, may be established as a permanent residence in the G or
AR Zones, subject to the granting of a conditional use permit. Establishment
shall require the installation of a permanent wastewater disposal system and
connection to appropriate utilities. Establishment shall require a town
building permit.
      (4)   In the G, AR and RR Zones, one recreational vehicle, park model or
travel trailer per lot or parcel may be used for temporary residency not to
exceed 100 days per year; provided, the lot or parcel is not already occupied
by a dwelling. A temporary use permit shall be obtained prior to establishing
said temporary residence, and the travel trailer, park model or recreational
vehicle must be removed from the parcel upon the expiration of the temporary
use permit. Approval may be subject to conditions.
      (5)   In the G and AR Zones, a temporary use permit may be issued to
allow the storage of one mobile home per lot or parcel for a period not to
exceed 30 days.
      (6)   In the G, AR and RR Zones, as a precaution against unauthorized
use, swimming pools when located within 300 feet of a neighboring residence
shall be enclosed by a wall or fence not less than five feet in height, in
accordance with the requirements of the town.
      (7)   A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be
obtained prior to the construction, reconstruction, alteration or change in use
of any building or other structure.
   (C)   General requirements.
      (1)   The following requirements are minimum unless otherwise noted:
 G AR RR
                                                                   G   AR  RR
Building site, net area in acres (or as specified per division (B) 10  1   1
(1) of this section
Distance between buildings, in feet                                10  10  10
Dwelling unit per parcel, maximum                                  1   1   1
Front yard, in feet                                                30  25  25
Lot coverage, maximum                                              30% 35% 35%
Lot depth, in feet                                                 300 150 150
Lot width, in feet                                                 300 100 100
Off-street parking spaces - per dwelling unit                      1   1   1
Rear yard, in feet                                                 30  20  20
Side yard - interior, in feet                                      20  10  10
Side yard - street side, in feet                                   30  15  15
Structure height, maximum, in feet                                 40  35  35
 
      (2)   Where a property is adjacent to the national forest, the required
side or rear yard minimum setback shall be 80% of the setback shown in division
(C)(1) above; except that, in no case shall the setback be less than five feet.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 9.4  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: G, AR AND RR ZONES.
   (A)   All required landscaping shall be permanently maintained in a neat and
orderly condition.
   (B)   With the exception of vehicles described in division (E) below,
outdoor parking of personal vehicles which are currently licensed and currently
operable is permitted. Vehicles which are neither currently licensed, nor
currently operable shall be considered outdoor storage, and housed or screened
per division (C) below. Required front and street side setback areas shall not
be used for parking or storage of any motor vehicles, vehicle accessory,
including, but not limited to, travel trailers, recreational vehicles, camper
shells, boats, utility trailers, motor bikes and the like. One motor vehicle or
travel trailer for sale may be parked on or adjacent to the driveway, but not
elsewhere in the front or street side setback areas.
   (C)   In all G, AR and RR Zones, outdoor storage of unlicensed or inoperable
vehicles, vehicle parts, auto parts, tires, secondhand building material, pipe,
drums, appliances, household furniture, household refuse, unlicensed travel
trailers or utility trailers and the like shall be permitted, subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   For any lot or parcel of land, the area permitted for the above
described outdoor storage shall be 200 square feet. An additional 100 square
feet of outdoor storage per acre for properties larger than one acre shall be
permitted up to a maximum of 1,000 square feet.
      (2)   On any lot or parcel of land, all outdoor storage shall be located
to the rear of the property and screened from neighboring properties and
roadways by a wall, non-transparent fencing, landscaping or other structure.
Any wall or fencing shall not exceed six feet in height. Stored secondhand
materials, vehicles, vehicle parts and the like shall not be stacked so as to
be visible above the required screening, or more than six feet high. The
provisions of this division (C)(2) shall not be construed to restrict the
storage of firewood maintained for personal use by the occupant of the
premises.
      (3)   All permitted screened outdoor storage areas shall meet the minimum
required building setbacks as prescribed by this section.
      (4)   Screened outdoor storage areas shall not be permitted on any parcel
unless there is a dwelling on the parcel.
   (D)   Temporary storage of construction materials shall be permitted on any
lot or parcel of land; provided, such materials are being used in conjunction
with a valid construction project on that lot or parcel.
   (E)   Commercial vehicles exceeding 26,000 pounds gross vehicle weight,
including, but not limited to, semi-tractors, semi-trailers, dump trucks and
the like and associated commercial equipment shall not be parked, stored or
serviced on any lot or parcel of land, except as prescribed in §
9.1(C)(2) of this code.
   (F)   The storage of a mobile home on any lot or parcel of land, is
prohibited, except as prescribed in §
9.3(B)(5).
   (G)   Where public or semi-public uses are established, a masonry wall or
alternative opaque fence, six feet in height as measured from the highest
adjacent grade and screen landscaping may be required by the Planning and
Zoning Commission to be erected and maintained between such uses and adjacent
residential uses on properties.
   (H)   Apparatus needed for the operation of active and passive solar energy
systems or other alternate energy systems, including, but not limited to,
overhangs, movable insulating walls and roofs, attached or detached solar
collectors, reflectors and piping shall be permitted for any use, subject to
the approval of the Town Manager or designee. In the review of the apparatus,
the Town Manager or designee shall ensure compliance with the required
development standards and may suggest measures to minimize negative visual
impacts on the community and/or adjacent property.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 9.5  SIGNS: G, AR AND RR ZONES.
   No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be permitted in the G, AR and
RR Zones, except as provided in §
16.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 9.6  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: G, AR AND RR ZONES.
   (A)   Generally. In the General, Agricultural Residential and Rural
Residential Zones, all accessory structures (excluding guest house/accessory
living units as provided for in §
9.1(C)(6)) shall be subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   Bathroom facilities shall be limited to one sink and one toilet.
      (2)   No kitchen facilities or wet bars shall be permitted.
      (3)   The use of the accessory structure shall be consistent with the
provisions of §§
9.0 and 9.1.
      (4)   Accessory structures shall be limited to a maximum size of 3,000
square feet. Any accessory structure which exceeds 3,000 square feet shall
require a conditional use permit.
      (5)   The use of mobile homes, semi-trailers, railroad cars, shipping
containers, travel trailers, camper shells or similar units as accessory
structures is prohibited. Metal storage containers may be permitted; refer to §
14.7.
      (6)   Accessory structures may be established prior to the dwelling or
primary structure, subject to the provisions outlined in division (A) above.
   (B)   Attached structures. An accessory structure that is attached to the
main structure shall meet all of the setback requirements of the main
structure.
   (C)   Detached structures.
      (1)   A detached structure shall meet the setback requirements of the
main building for the front and street side yard areas.
      (2)   A detached accessory structure, which does not exceed 15 feet in
height and 600 square feet in area, may be located within an interior side yard
or rear yard; provided, however, that, such structure shall not be located
closer than five feet to an interior side or rear lot line.
      (3)   A detached accessory structure which exceeds 15 feet in height, or
600 square feet in area, shall maintain the same minimum side and rear setbacks
as required for the main dwelling.
      (4)   A detached structure shall maintain a minimum ten-foot separation
from the main structure.
      (5)   For the purpose of this section, swimming pools shall be considered
to be a detached accessory structure.
      (6)   Although not requiring a building permit, accessory structures with
less than 120 square feet of roof area must meet the above minimum setbacks.
   (D)   Other structures.
      (1)   Steps, architectural features, such as eaves, awnings, chimneys,
stairways, wing walls or bay windows, may project not more than six feet into
any required front, street side or rear yard area, nor into any required side
yard area more than one-half of said required side yard. Greater overhangs or
projections may be permitted when it is demonstrated that such additional
overhangs or projections are needed for solar or alternate energy purposes,
subject to the approval of the Town Manager or designee.
      (2)   Balconies, porches or decks shall not encroach or project into any
required setback area.
      (3)   Amateur (HAM) radio towers shall be permitted for the personal use
of the property owner/resident and subject to the following provisions.
         (a)   Towers shall not project more than 65 feet above grade;
establishment of towers above this limit, but less than 100 feet in height, may
be permitted only through the variance procedure set forth in §
20. The height of extension antennas shall be determined in its cranked-down
position and shall remain in said position, except during use.
         (b)   Towers shall meet the minimum setback requirements for the zone
in which they are located; no portion of any antenna array shall extend beyond
the property lines.
         (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
demonstrate that the site is adequate in size to contain debris resulting from
tower failure and that such failure will not present a safety hazard to
adjoining properties.
         (d)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
demonstrate that the proposed tower complies with any and all federal
regulations pertaining to airport operations that may be applicable to the
subject property.
      (4)   Satellite dishes up to 12 feet in diameter shall be permitted,
subject to the following restrictions.
         (a)   Ground-mounted antennas shall be located outside any required
front and side yard setback area.
         (b)   All installations must comply with accessory use height
requirements.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 9.7  WALLS AND FENCES: G, AR AND RR ZONES.
   (A)   In any required front or street side yard, an opaque or solid wall or
fence shall not exceed three feet in height. Non-opaque fences, which are at
least 50% transparent, may be established in any required front or street side
yard to a maximum height of six feet.
   (B)   A wall or solid fence not more than six feet in height, as measured
from the highest adjacent grade, may be maintained along the interior side or
rear lot lines; provided that, such wall or solid fence does not extend into a
required front or street side yard. Extensions of walls or fences into required
front or street side yards may not exceed three feet in height. Stacking
firewood along a property line shall be considered a wall or fence and must
meet height limits.
   (C)   Walls or fences exceeding six feet in height may be permitted only
through the variance procedure set forth in § 20 and subject to the granting of
a building permit.
   (D)   A wall or fence adjacent to a driveway providing vehicular access to
an abutting lot shall not exceed three feet in height within 15 feet of the
intersection of said driveway and the street right-of-way so as not to obstruct
visibility.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a wall or fence
required by any law or regulation of the state or any agency thereof.
   (F)   Tires may not be used to construct walls, unless they are fully
encapsulated so as to prevent the accumulation of water inside the tires, and
subject to the granting of a building permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 10:  RESIDENTIAL ZONES
Section
   
10.0   Purposes
   
10.1   Permitted and conditional uses: R Zones
   
10.2   Property development standards: R Zones
   
10.3   Performance standards: R Zones
   
10.4   Signs: R Zones
   
10.5   Accessory structures: Residential Zones
   
10.6   Walls and fences: R Zones
   
10.7   Condominiums and condominium conversions: R Zones
§ 10.0  PURPOSES.
   (A)   General. In addition to the objectives outlined in §  1 (Purpose and
Scope), the Residential Zones are included in the zoning regulations to achieve
the following purposes:
      (1)   To reserve appropriately located areas for family living at a broad
range of dwelling unit densities consistent with the Tusayan Area Plan and with
sound standards of public health, safety and welfare;
      (2)   To ensure adequate light, air, privacy and open space for each
dwelling;
      (3)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by preventing the construction of buildings of excessive number in
relation to the land area around them;
      (4)   To protect residential properties from noise, direct illumination,
unsightliness, odors, smoke and other objectionable influences; and
      (5)   To facilitate the provision of utility services and other public
facilities commensurate with anticipated population, dwelling unit densities
and service requirements.
   (B)   RS-6,000, Residential Single-Family Zone. This zone is intended for
single-family, urban residential development on minimum lot sizes of 6,000
square feet and maximum densities of six dwelling units per acre. Only those
additional uses are permitted that are complimentary to, and can exist in
harmony with, a residential neighborhood.
   (C)   RS-10,000, Residential Single-Family Zone. This zone is intended for
low-urban density single- family residential development on minimum lot sizes
of 10,000 square feet and maximum densities of four dwelling units per acre.
Only those additional uses are permitted that are complimentary to, and can
exist in harmony with, a residential neighborhood.
   (D)   RS-18,000, Residential Single-Family Zone. This zone is intended for
low density single-family residential development on minimum lot sizes of
18,000 square feet and at maximum densities of two dwelling units per acre.
Only those additional uses are permitted that are complimentary to, and can
exist in harmony with, a suburban residential neighborhood.
   (E)   RS-36,000, Residential Single-Family Zone. This zone is intended for
very low density single- family residential development on minimum lot sizes of
36,000 square feet and at maximum densities of one dwelling unit per acre. Only
those additional uses are permitted that are complimentary to, and can exist in
harmony with, a suburban residential neighborhood.
   (F)   RM-10/A, Multiple-Family Residential Zone. This zone is intended for
the development of multi-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, apartments,
condominiums, townhouses or other group dwellings with provisions for adequate
light, air, open space and landscaped areas at maximum densities of ten
dwelling units per acre. Only those additional uses are permitted that are
complimentary to, and can exist in harmony with, such residential developments.
   (G)   RM-20/A, Multiple-Family Residential Zone. This zone is intended for
the development of high density multi-family dwellings, apartments,
condominiums, townhouses or other group dwellings with provisions for adequate
light, air, open space and landscaped areas at maximum densities of 20 dwelling
units per acre. Only those additional uses are permitted that are complimentary
to, and can exist in harmony with, such residential developments.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 10.1  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES: R ZONES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted uses where the symbol “P”
appears and shall be permitted uses, subject to a conditional use permit where
the symbol “C” appears in the column beneath each zone designation.
   (B)   All uses not listed are prohibited. For uses similar to those listed,
see §
20.1.
      (1)   Residential Single-Family Zones.
         (a)   Residential uses.
 
                                                                  RS-  RS-   RS-   RS-
                                                                  6000 10000 18000 36000
Group homes for the handicapped, subject to the provisions in §  P    P     P     P
14.6
Other group homes                                                 C    C     C     C
Single-family dwelling or modular home                            P    P     P     P
 
         (b)   Agricultural and related uses.
 RS-6000 RS-10000 RS-18000 RS-36000
                                                                                 RS-  RS-   RS-   RS-
                                                                                 6000 10000 18000 36000
All types of agriculture and horticulture                                        P    P     P     P
Keeping of horses and other farm-type animals (not including swine), subject to  -    -     P     P
the following conditions:
   —A minimum of 1 acre of land shall be required for the maintenance of such
animals
   —Three such animals may be maintained on the first acre and up to 1
additional animal for each additional 1/2 acre
   —No such animal may be sheltered, fed or watered closer than 100 feet to a
residence occupied by other persons
   —The keeping of all animals shall be subject to the regulations and
conditions of the Coconino County Health Department and Animal Control Division
Keeping of poultry or rabbits for non-commercial purposes at least 100 feet from -    -     -     P
a residence occupied by other persons
Riding academies or riding clubs                                                 -    -     C     C
Sale of products raised on the premises                                          P    P     P     P
Soil and water conservation projects (not including stock watering tanks)        C    C     C     C
 
         (c)   Public and semi-public uses.
 RS-6000 RS-10000 RS-18000 RS-36000
                                             RS-6000 RS-10000 RS-18000 RS-36000
Churches, convents, monasteries and other    C       C        C        C
religious institutions
Day care center                              P       P        P        P
Educational institutions, public or private  C       C        C        C
Hospitals                                    C       C        C        C
Libraries and museums                        C       C        C        C
Preschool                                    C       C        C        C
Public parks and recreational facilities     P       P        P        P
Public utility and public service sub-
stations, reservoirs, pumping plants and     C       C        C        C
similar installations, not including public
utility offices
Recreational facilities such as rodeos,
country clubs, tennis and swim clubs, golf
courses, with incidental, limited commercial C       C        C        C
uses which are commonly associated with and
directly related to the primary use
 
         (d)   Home occupations.
 
                                                     RS-6000 RS-   RS-   RS-
                                                             10000 18000 36000
Cottage industries, subject to the provisions of §  -       -     -     C
14.3
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of §    P       P     P     P
14.2
 
         (e)   Accessory uses.
 RS-6000 RS-10000 RS-18000 RS-36000
                                                                               RS-  RS-   RS-   RS-
                                                                               6000 10000 18000 36000
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a conditional use    C    C     C     C
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a permitted use      P    P     P     P
Guest house or accessory living quarters, subject to the following conditions: P    P     P     P
   —A deed restriction shall be recorded prior to issuance of a building
permit indicating that the accessory unit is for family or guests and not for
rental
   —Accessory living quarters and guest houses are limited to 50% of the
livable square footage of the main dwelling up to a maximum of 800 square feet
for a detached guest house, or 1,000 square feet for attached accessory living
quarters
   —All utilities must be on the same meters as the principal dwelling
   —Application for a conditional use permit can be requested for a
modification to existing structures that may not be in compliance with the
limits of these provisions
   —Attached living quarters are permitted regardless of parcel size. Detached
guest houses are permitted only on parcels of 2 acres or larger
   —Kitchens are allowed
   —Maximum separation between the main dwelling and guest house shall be 60
feet
   —Travel trailers and mobile homes are not allowed as guest houses
Metal storage containers                                                       See §
                                                                               14.7
 
         (f)   Temporary uses.
 
                                          RS-6000 RS-10000 RS-18000 RS-36000
Model homes and subdivision sales offices C       C        C        C
Temporary uses as prescribed in §        P       P        P        P
14.1
 
         (g)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
 
                                                                   RS-  RS-   RS-   RS-
                                                                   6000 10000 18000 36000
Bed and breakfast establishments, subject to the provisions of §  -    -     -     C
14.4
 
      (2)   Residential Multiple-Family Zones.
         (a)   Residential uses.
 RM-10/A RM-20/A
                                                             RM-10/A RM-20/A
Condominiums and condominium conversions                     C       C
Dormitories                                                  C       C
Group homes for the disabled, as defined by the Fair Housing P       P
Amendments Act of 1988
Guest dwellings                                              P       P
Multi-family dwellings containing 5 or more units            C       C
Multi-family dwellings containing not more than 4 units      P       P
Single-family dwellings                                      P       P
Two-family dwellings                                         P       P
 
         (b)   Agricultural and related uses. Not permitted in RM-10/A and RM-
20/A.
         (c)   Public and semi-public uses.
 RM-10/A RM-20/A
                                                               RM-10/A RM-20/A
Churches, convents, monasteries and other religious            C       C
institutions
Day care                                                       P       P
Educational institutions, public or private                    C       C
Hospitals                                                      C       C
Libraries and museums                                          C       C
Preschool                                                      C       C
Public parks and recreational facilities                       P       P
Public utility and public service sub-stations, reservoirs,
pumping plants and similar installations, not including public C       C
utility offices
Recreational facilities such as rodeos, hunting/riding clubs,
country clubs, tennis and swim clubs, golf courses, with       C       C
incidental, limited commercial uses which are commonly
associated with and directly related to the primary use
 
         (d)   Home occupations.
 
                                                   RM-10/A RM-20/A
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of §  P       P
14.2
 
         (e)   Accessory uses.
 
                                                            RM-10/A RM-20/A
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a C       C
conditional use
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a P       P
permitted use
 
         (f)   Temporary uses.
 
                                                    RM-10/A RM-20/A
Model homes and subdivision sales or rental offices C       C
Temporary uses as prescribed in §                  P       P
14.1
 
         (g)   Bed and breakfast establishments.
 
                                                                   RM-  RM-20/
                                                                   10/A A
Bed and breakfast establishments, subject to the provisions of §  C    C
14.4
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 10.2  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: R ZONES.
   (A)   General. The following property development standards shall apply to
all land and buildings, other than accessory buildings, permitted in their
respective Residential Zones; except that, any lot shown on an official
subdivision map that was duly approved and recorded; or any lot for which a
bonafide deed was duly recorded in conformance with the zoning in effect prior
to the date of adoption of this code may be used as a building site; excepting
therefrom any lot having an area of less than 4,000 square feet. For access
purposes, each building site shall have a minimum 30-foot wide easement or
right-of-way. A turnaround with a minimum radius of 25 feet shall be provided
at the end of each easement over 150 feet in length. No fences or other
obstructions shall be placed in the easement area, except with written
permission of all other property owners served by the easement. For any parcel
of land created after 1-3-1995, an access road to the parcel must be provided
prior to the delivery of any combustible building materials. Said access road
must be constructed to an all weather standard.
   (B)   Special requirements.
      (1)   In the RS Zone, other lot sizes larger than 6,000 square feet may
be specified and designated on the Official Zoning Map by attaching a number
designation following the zone classification. (For example, RS-15,000, RS-
40,000 or RS-5 (five-acre minimum lot size).) Permitted and conditional uses,
property development standards, performance standards and all other
requirements and regulations for these alternate zone classifications with the
exception of the minimum parcel size, shall be the same as those specified in
this code for the zoning classification with the next lower minimum parcel
size. (For example, RS-15,000 would have RS-10,000 requirements and RS-40,000
and RS-5 would have RS-36,000 requirements.)
      (2)   Use of a travel trailer or recreational vehicle as a temporary or
permanent residence is prohibited.
      (3)   In any Residential Zone, a building used for public or semi-public
uses shall maintain a minimum setback of 50 feet from any single-family use.
      (4)   In any Multiple-Family Residential Zone, a mobile, manufactured or
modular home may not be used as a main or guest dwelling or accessory living
quarters, except in remote areas on parcels larger than two acres where one
manufactured or modular home may be allowed with the granting of a conditional
use permit. If the property is later developed with multiple-family residential
housing, the manufactured or modular home shall be removed.
      (5)   In the RS Zone, on lots of one acre or larger, horses or other
domestic farm-type animals shall not be kept in the front yard or street side
yard areas. Keeping animals shall also be subject to Coconino County Health
Department regulations.
      (6)   A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be
obtained prior to the construction, reconstruction, alteration or change in use
of any building or other structure.
   (C)   General requirements.
      (1)   Residential Single-Family Zones.
         (a)   The following requirements are minimum unless otherwise noted:
General Requirements RS-6000 RS-10000 RS-18000 RS-36000
General Requirements                         RS-6000 RS-10000 RS-18000 RS-36000
Building height, in feet                     35      35       35       35
Building site, net area in square feet       6,000   10,000   18,000   36,000
Density, maximum dwelling units per acre     6.0     4.0      2.0      1.0
Distance between buildings, in feet          10      10       10       10
Dwelling unit per parcel, maximum            1       1        1        1
Front yard, in feet                          20      20       25       25
Lot coverage, maximum                        40%     40%      35%      35%
Lot depth, in feet                           100     100      100      150
Lot width, in feet                           60      80       100      120
Off-street parking spaces, per dwelling unit 2       2        2        2
Rear yard, in feet                           20      20       25       25
Side yard - interior, in feet                5       10       10       20
Side yard - street side, in feet             10      10       15       20
 
         (b)   Where a property is adjacent to the national forest, the
required side or rear yard minimum setback shall be 80% of the setback shown in
division (C)(1)(a) above; except that, in no case shall the setback be less
than five feet.
      (2)   Residential Multiple-Family Zones.
         (a)   The following requirements are minimum unless otherwise noted:
General Requirements RM-10/A RM-20/A
General Requirements                           RM-10/A RM-20/A
Building height, in feet                       35      40
Building site, net area, in acres              0.5     2.0
Covered off-street parking spaces per dwelling 2       1 + 1 open
unit
   —Open guest parking spaces             Additional 10% of total spaces
Density, maximum dwelling units per acre       10      20
Distance between buildings, in feet            10      10
Front yard, in feet                            20      25
Lot coverage, maximum                          45%     50%
Lot depth, in feet                             100     200
Lot width, in feet                             100     150
Off-street parking spaces for two-family       2       2
dwellings, per dwelling unit
Rear yard, in feet                             20      25
Side yard - interior, in feet                  10      15
Side yard - street side, in feet               15      20
 
         (b)   All setbacks shall be measured from property lines. In
situations where an access easement is located along a property line, the
setback shall be measured from the interior edge of the access easement line.
Where an access easement bisects any parcel of land, said easement shall be
considered a street for setback purposes and street side yard setbacks shall
apply.
         (c)   Where a property is adjacent to the national forest, the
required side or rear yard minimum setback shall be 80% of the setback shown in
division (C)(2)(a) above; except that, in no case shall the setback be less
than five feet.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 10.3  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: R ZONES.
   (A)   In all Residential Zones, air conditioners, heating, cooling,
ventilating equipment, swimming pool pumps and heaters and all other mechanical
devices shall be screened from surrounding properties and streets and shall be
so operated that they do not disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of
neighboring residents. Facilities for the operation of alternate energy systems
shall be exempted from the screening requirements when such screening will
clearly restrict the efficient operation of such systems.
   (B)   In all Residential Zones, required front and street side yards shall
be landscaped, except for necessary walks, drives and fences. In the RM Zones,
the undeveloped site area shall be landscaped. Such required landscaping may
include outdoor recreation areas. All required landscaping shall be permanently
maintained in a neat and orderly condition.
   (C)   In all RS and RM Zones, outdoor storage of unlicensed or inoperable
vehicles, vehicle parts, auto parts, tires, secondhand building materials,
pipe, drums, appliances, household furniture, household refuse, unlicensed
travel trailers or utility trailers and the like shall be subject to the
following conditions.
      (1)   For any lot or parcel of land, the area permitted for the above
described outdoor storage shall be 200 square feet. An additional 100 square
feet of outdoor storage per acre for properties larger than one acre shall be
permitted up to a maximum of 1,000 square feet.
      (2)   On any lot or parcel of land, all outdoor storage shall be located
to the rear of the property and screened from neighboring properties and
roadways by a wall, non-transparent fencing, landscaping or other structure.
Any wall or fencing shall not exceed six feet in height. Stored secondhand
materials, vehicles, vehicle parts and the like shall not be stacked so as to
be visible above the required screening or more than six feet high. The
provisions of this division (C)(2) shall not be construed to restrict the
storage of firewood maintained for personal use by the occupant of the
premises.
      (3)   All permitted screened outdoor storage areas shall meet the minimum
required building setbacks as prescribed by this section. Outdoor storage shall
not be permitted on any RS or RM zoned lot unless there is a dwelling on the
lot.
   (D)   Required front and street side yards shall not be used for parking or
storage of any motor vehicle or vehicle accessory such as camper shells,
trailers, motor bikes or other wheeled accessory or convenience; except that,
operable motor vehicles may be parked upon the driveway or access way to the
garage or carport. One motor vehicle or travel trailer for sale may be parked
on or adjacent to the driveway, but not elsewhere in the front or street side
setback areas.
   (E)   Commercial vehicles exceeding 26,000 pounds gross vehicle weight and
associated commercial equipment shall not be parked, stored or serviced in any
Residential Zone.
   (F)   Where a multiple-family dwelling or structure, containing five or more
units, including incidental or required accessory uses, abuts property in an
Agricultural Residential, Rural Residential, General or Single-Family Zone, a
masonry wall or solid wood fence six feet in height and/or screen landscaping
shall be established and maintained between such uses and adjacent Residential
Zones.
   (G)   Where public or semi-public uses are established, a masonry wall or
solid wood fence six feet in height as measured from the highest adjacent grade
and screen landscaping shall be erected and maintained between such uses and
adjacent residential uses on properties.
   (H)   Apparatus needed for the operation of active and passive solar energy
systems or other alternate energy systems, including, but not limited to,
overhangs, movable insulating walls and roofs, attached or detached solar
collectors, reflectors and piping shall be permitted for any use, subject to
the approval of the Town Manager or designee. In the review of the apparatus,
the Town Manager or designee shall ensure compliance with the required
development standards and may suggest measures to minimize negative visual
impacts on the community and/or adjacent property.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 10.4  SIGNS: R ZONES.
   No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be permitted in any R Zone,
except as provided in §
16.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 10.5  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   Attached structures. An accessory structure that is attached to a main
structure shall meet all of the requirements for location of the main
structure, except as provided in division (D) below.
   (B)   Canopies. Canopies, or roofs attached to the main building or
connecting the main building with adetached accessory building, may extend into
a required rear or interior side yard; provided that, portions of such
structure extending into the yard:
      (1)   Shall not exceed 15 feet in height, nor project closer than five
feet to an interior side or rear lot line; and
      (2)   Shall be entirely open on at least three sides except for necessary
supporting columns; except that, a roof connecting a main building and an
accessory building shall be open on at least two sides.
   (C)   Detached structures.
      (1)   A detached structure shall meet the setback requirements of the
main building for the front and street side yard areas.
      (2)   A detached accessory structure which does not exceed 15 feet in
height and 600 square feet in area may be located within an interior side yard
or rear yard; provided, however, that, such structure shall not be closer than
five feet to an interior side or rear lot line.
      (3)   A detached accessory structure which exceeds 15 feet in height, or
600 square feet in area, shall maintain the same minimum side and rear setbacks
as required for the main building.
      (4)   A detached structure shall maintain a minimum ten-foot separation
from the main structure.
      (5)   Although not requiring a building permit, accessory structures with
less than 120 square feet of roof area must meet the above minimum setbacks.
      (6)   For the purpose of this section, swimming pools shall be considered
to be a detached structure.
      (7)   Detached structures shall not be permitted prior to the dwelling,
except in RS Zones with minimum lot sizes of one acre or more.
      (8)   Plumbing in detached structures shall be limited to one sink and
one toilet.
      (9)   Use of accessory structures shall be consistent with §
10.0.
      (10)   The use of mobile homes, semi-trailers, railroad cars, shipping
containers, travel trailers, camper shells or similar units as accessory
structures is prohibited. Metal storage containers may be permitted; refer to §
14.7.
   (D)   Other structures.
      (1)   Steps, architectural features, such as eaves, awnings, chimneys,
stairways, wing walls or bay windows, may project not more than six feet into
any required front, street side or rear yard area, nor into any required side
yard area more than one-half of said required side yard. Greater projections
may be permitted when it is demonstrated that such additional projections are
needed for solar or alternate energy purposes, subject to the approval of the
Town Manager or designee.
      (2)   Balconies, porches or decks shall not encroach or project into any
required setback area.
      (3)   Swimming pools including all accessory or appurtenant structures
and equipment shall maintain a minimum setback of five feet from all property
lines and buildings. As a precaution against unauthorized use, swimming pools
shall be enclosed by a wall or fence not less than five feet in height in
accordance with the requirements of the town.
      (4)   Amateur (HAM) radio towers shall be permitted for the personal use
of the property owner/resident and subject to the following provisions.
         (a)   Towers shall not project more than 65 feet above grade;
establishment of towers above this limit, but less than 100 feet in height, may
be permitted only through the variance procedure set forth in §
20. The height of extension antennas shall be determined in their cranked down
position and shall remain in said position, except during use.
         (b)   Towers shall meet the minimum setback requirements for the zone
in which they are located; no portion of any antenna array shall extend beyond
the property lines.
         (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
demonstrate that the site is adequate in size to contain debris resulting from
tower failure and that such failure will not present a safety hazard to
adjoining properties.
      (3)   Amateur (HAM) radio towers shall be permitted for the personal use
of the property owner/resident and subject to the following provisions.
         (a)   Towers shall not project more than 65 feet above grade;
establishment of towers above this limit, but less than 100 feet in height, may
be permitted only through the variance procedure set forth in §
20. The height of extension antennas shall be determined in its cranked-down
position and shall remain in said position, except during use.
         (b)   Towers shall meet the minimum setback requirements for the zone
in which they are located; no portion of any antenna array shall extend beyond
the property lines.
         (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
demonstrate that the site is adequate in size to contain debris resulting from
tower failure and that such failure will not present a safety hazard to
adjoining properties.
         (d)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to
demonstrate that the proposed tower complies with any and all federal
regulations pertaining to airport operations that may be applicable to the
subject property.
      (5)   Satellite dishes up to ten feet in diameter shall be permitted,
subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   Ground-mounted dishes shall be located outside of any front and
side setback area.
         (b)   All installations must comply with accessory use height
requirements.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 10.6  WALLS AND FENCES: R ZONES.
   (A)   In any required front or street side yard, an opaque or solid wall or
fence shall not exceed three feet in height. Non-opaque fences, which are at
least 50% transparent, may be established in any required front or street side
yard to a maximum height of six feet.
   (B)   A wall or solid fence not more than six feet in height, as measured
from the highest adjacent grade, may be maintained along the interior side or
rear lot lines; provided that, such wall or fence does not extend into a
required front or street side yard. Extensions of walls or solid fences into
required front or street side yards may not exceed three feet in height.
Stacking firewood along a property line shall be considered a wall or fence and
must meet height limits.
   (C)   Walls or fences exceeding six feet in height may be permitted only
through the variance procedure set forth in §
20 and subject to the granting of a building permit.
   (D)   A wall or fence adjacent to a driveway providing vehicular access to
an abutting lot shall not exceed three feet in height within 15 feet of the
intersection of said driveway and the street right-of- way so as not to
obstruct visibility.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a wall or fence
required by any law or regulation of the state or any agency thereof.
   (F)   Tires may not be used to construct walls, unless they are fully
encapsulated so as to prevent the accumulation of water inside the tires, and
subject to the granting of a building permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 10.7  CONDOMINIUMS AND CONDOMINIUM CONVERSIONS: R ZONES.
   (A)   Pre-application procedure. Prior to formal application for a
condominium conversion or construction of a condominium development, the
applicant shall meet with the Town Manager or his or her designee to review and
discuss the feasibility of the proposed project.
   (B)   Application procedure. A conditional use permit application shall be
completed and returned to the Town Manager or designee with the following
documents:
      (1)   If the application is for a condominium conversion, a report
setting forth all repairs and replacements necessary, if any, to immediately
place the buildings in substantial compliance with current Building and Safety
Codes and the probable cost of such work. Said report shall include a report
prepared by a licensed mechanical engineer verifying the condition of the
mechanical elements in the project, including, but not limited to, furnaces,
air conditioners, pumps, water heaters and plumbing fixtures;
      (2)   If the application is for a condominium conversion, a pest
inspection and written report by a certified inspector;
      (3)   If the application is for a condominium conversion, a comprehensive
building report which includes age, material and condition where applicable of
the following:
         (a)   Type and age of construction;
         (b)   Walls, interior and exterior;
         (c)   Roof;
         (d)   Garaging;
         (e)   Trash disposal;
         (f)   Drainage;
         (g)   Laundry facilities;
         (h)   Current maintenance activities and programs;
         (i)   Estimated number of visiting tenants;
         (j)   Length of existing leases and average rents;
         (k)   Average length of tenancy for existing tenants;
         (l)   Estimated schedule for conversion;
         (m)   Estimated price range of converted units;
         (n)   List of improvements con- templated; and
         (o)   Estimate of available similar housing in the town.
      (4)   For condominium and condominium conversion projects, plot plans
shall be submitted indicating the following minimum information:
         (a)   Location, height, the gross floor area and proposed uses of each
existing structure and for each proposed structure;
         (b)   Location, use and type of surfacing of all open storage areas;
         (c)   Location and type of surfacing of all driveways, pedestrian
ways, vehicle parking areas and curb cuts;
         (d)   Location, height and type of materials for all walls and fences;
         (e)   Location of all landscaped areas, type of landscaping,
irrigation plans and a statement specifying the method by which landscaping
areas shall be maintained;
         (f)   Location of all recreational facilities and a statement
specifying the method of maintenance thereof;
         (g)   Location of parking facilities to be used in conjunction with
each dwelling unit; and
         (h)   Location, elevation and type and color of materials to be
employed and methods of illumination for signs.
      (5)   Structural elevations shall be required at the discretion of the
Town Manager or designee. Elevations shall indicate type of materials used in
construction, as well as the method used to provide sound insulation/
attenuation in all common walls;
      (6)   For condominium and condominium conversion projects, a report that
lists measures taken to make the project energy efficient and environmentally
sound. The report shall also include any resource conservation aspects of the
project; and
      (7)   Such other information as may be determined by the Town Manager or
designee.
   (C)   Standards of development.
      (1)   A tentative tract map for a condominium development shall be
prepared and submitted to the town in accordance with the Subdivision Ordinance
of the town.
      (2)   All condominiums and condominium conversions shall be developed in
accordance with dwelling unit requirements as set forth by the Plumbing and
Electrical Code adopted by the town.
      (3)   All existing buildings and structures shall be made to comply with
all applicable building regulations of the town in effect at the time of filing
a conditional use permit.
      (4)   Utility systems shall exist or shall be constructed to adequately
provide for utility services to all condominium units.
      (5)   Each existing tenant of the project shall be given a 120-day
notification on the intended condominium conversion and the right to purchase
his or her converted multiple dwelling unit prior to the unit being placed for
sale.
   (D)   Special conditions.
      (1)   Copies of the required covenants, conditions and restrictions,
articles of incorporation and by-laws or other documents of the owner’s
association or other entity which controls the common facilities shall be
submitted to the town for approval and shall set forth the occupancy and
management policies for the project, as well as contain adequate and
satisfactory provisions for maintenance, repair and general upkeep.
      (2)   A minimum of two covered parking spaces shall be provided for each
dwelling unit. An additional parking space for guests shall be provided for
each two dwelling units. Guest parking spaces may be open. For new
developments, off-street parking spaces shall be located on the same lot as the
condominium unit or shall be constructed as an integral part of the condominium
unit.
      (3)   A minimum area of 400 square feet per unit shall be provided in all
condominium projects for recreational purposes. Patios of individual units may
be included in the satisfaction of this condition.
      (4)   The town may vary from any or all of these conditions in order to
ensure compatibility of the use with surrounding developments and uses and in
order to preserve the public health, safety and welfare.
   (E)   Findings. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make the findings
contained in §
20.3-7 hereof prior to the granting of a conditional use permit for a
condominium or condominium conversion project.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 11:  COMMERCIAL ZONES
Section
   
11.0   Purposes
   
11.1   Permitted and conditional uses
   
11.2   Property development standards: Commercial Zones
   
11.3   Performance standards: Commercial Zones
   
11.4   Signs: Commercial Zones
   
11.5   Accessory structures: Commercial Zones
   
11.6   Walls and fences: Commercial Zones
§ 11.0  PURPOSES.
   (A)   General. In addition to the objectives outlined in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the Commercial Zones are included in the zoning
regulations to achieve the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide appropriately located areas for office uses, retail
stores, service establishments and wholesale business, offering commodities and
services required by residents of the town and its surrounding market area;
      (2)   To encourage office and commercial uses to congregate for the
convenience of the public and for a mutually beneficial relationship to each
other;
      (3)   To provide adequate space to meet the needs of modern commercial
development, including off-street parking and loading areas;
      (4)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities;
      (5)   To protect residential and other commercial properties from noise,
odor, smoke, unsightliness and other objectionable influences incidental to
commercial uses; and
      (6)   To promote high standards of site planning architecture and
landscape design for office and commercial developments within the town.
   (B)   CN-2/A, Commercial Neighborhood Zone. This zone is intended for
neighborhood shopping centers which provide limited retail business, service
and office facilities for the convenience of residents of the neighborhood.
These shopping centers are intended to be compatible with a residential
environment at locations consistent with the Tusayan Area Plan.
   (C)   CG-10,000, Commercial General Zone. This zone is intended for the
location of general retail and wholesale commercial activities.
   (D)   CH-10,000, Commercial Heavy Zone. This zone is intended to provide
appropriately located areas for establishments catering primarily to highway
travelers, visitors to the town or such businesses or uses where direct access
to major arterial highways is essential or desirable for their operation.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 11.1  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted where the symbol “P” appears and
shall be permitted uses, subject to a conditional use permit where the symbol
“C” appears in the column beneath each zone designation.
   (B)   All uses not listed are prohibited. For uses similar to those listed,
see §
20.1.
      (1)   Office and related uses.
 
                                                    CN-2/A CG-10,000 CH-10,000
Administrative, professional executive offices      P      P         P
Financial institutions                              P      P         P
Medical, dental and related health services for
humans including laboratories and clinics; only the P      P         P
sale of articles clearly incidental to the services
provided shall be permitted
Public utility service offices                      P      P         P
 
      (2)   General commercial uses.
 CN-2/A CG-10,000 CH-10,000
                                                  CN-2/A CG-10,000 CH-10,000
Amusement arcades                                 -      P         P
Apartments, when located above the first floor of C      P         P
the building
Appliance and hardware stores                     P      P         P
Auction houses/stores, indoor sales/display       -      P         P
Auction houses/stores, outdoor sales/display      -      C         C
Auto lubrication and oil change operation         -      C         C
Automobile sales and services, including rental   -      C         C
agencies
Automotive repair garage                          -      C         C
Automotive service station                        C      C         C
Bakeries, wholesale                               -      -         C
Boat and camper sales and services                -      C         C
Bowling alleys and billiard halls                 -      P         P
Campgrounds                                       -      C         C
Car washes                                        -      C         C
Ceramic studio with outdoor kiln                  -      -         C
Cocktail lounges and bars                         -      C         C
Contractor’s yards                              -      C         C
Convenience market                                P      P         P
Convenience market with gasoline pumps            C      C         C
Drive-in restaurants                              -      P         P
Drive-in theaters                                 -      -         C
 
 CN-2/A CG-10,000 CH-10,000
                                                                         CN- CG-    CH-
                                                                         2/A 10,000 10,000
Dry cleaners                                                             -   P      P
Farm implement and machine sales, rental and repairs                     -   C      C
Feed stores                                                              -   C      C
General retail business establishments, except for large retail
establishments as defined in §                                          P   P      P
8, engaged in selling goods or services to the public; provided that,
such uses are conducted entirely within an enclosed building
Hotels and motels                                                        -   P      P
Kennel, indoor runs/pens                                                 -   P      P
Kennel, outdoor runs/pens                                                -   C      C
Large retail establishments as defined in §                             -   C      C
8 (establishments over 70,000 square feet are prohibited)
Laundry pick-up and delivery agencies                                    -   P      P
Medical marijuana cultivation and infusion facilities, subject to the
provisions of §                                                         -   -      C
14.9
Medical marijuana dispensaries, subject to the provisions of §          -   P      P
14.9
Mortuaries                                                               -   P      P
Motorcycle, ATV, sales, service and rental                               -   C      C
Nurseries and garden supply stores                                       C   C      C
Public storage facilities (mini-storages)                                C   C      C
Recreational vehicle and travel trailer parks                            -   C      C
Recreational vehicle sales and service                                   -   C      C
Restaurants conducted within a building including sale of alcoholic      C   P      P
beverages
Restaurants with outdoor dining                                          C   C      C
Self-service laundry                                                     P   P      P
Skating rinks                                                            -   C      P
Solid waste hauler’s yard                                              -   -      C
Stone and monument yards                                                 -   C      C
Theater                                                                  C   C      C
Tire sales and service                                                   -   C      C
Tour operator with associated outdoor storage or activity                -   C      C
Truck and trailer rental, sales and service                              -   C      C
Vehicular storage yards (not including auto wrecking yards)              -   C      C
Veterinarian office and small animal hospitals                           -   C      P
Warehousing                                                              -   P      P
Wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the provisions of §  C   C      C
14.5
 
      (3)   Public and semi-public uses.
 CN-2/A CG-10,000 CH-10,000
                                                    CN-2/A CG-10,000 CH-10,000
Churches                                            P      P         P
Clubs and lodges including YMCA, YWCA and similar   C      C         P
youth group uses
Commercial trade or vocational schools              C      P         P
Convalescent homes and hospital                     -      C         C
Day care centers and preschools                     P      C         -
Educational institutions, public or private         -      C         C
Libraries and museums, public or private            C      P         P
Parks and recreational facilities, public or
private, including tennis, racquetball and handball C      P         P
clubs and facilities
Post office branch                                  P      P         P
Public/private utility installations                C      C         C
 
      (4)   Accessory uses.
 
                                                     CN-2/A CG-10,000 CH-10,000
A single-family residence established as an integral
part of the commercial building, for exclusive use   C      P         P
by the owner/operator of the business
A single-family residence which is detached from any
commercial building on the site and is for the       C      C         C
exclusive use by the owner/operator of the business
Accessory retail propane sales, tanks 2,000 gallons
or less, subject to the issuance of a building       -      P         P
permit
Accessory uses and structures located on the same    C      C         C
site as a conditional use
Accessory uses and structures located on the same    P      P         P
site as a permitted use
Metal storage containers                             See §
                                                     14.7
 
      (5)   Temporary uses.
 
                                    CN-2/A CG-10,000 CH10,000
Temporary uses as prescribed in §  P      P         P
14.1
 
      (6)   Other uses. Other commercial, office or service uses as may be
determined by resolution of the Planning and Zoning Commission to be consistent
with the purposes indicated in §
11.0 and similar to and no more detrimental than existing permitted or
conditional uses in any Commercial Zone. Such other uses shall meet the
performance standards outlined in §
11.3.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 11.2  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: COMMERCIAL ZONES.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The following property development standards shall apply to all
land and buildings permitted in their respective Commercial Zones; except that,
any lot shown on an official subdivision map that was duly recorded, or any lot
for which a bonafide deed was duly recorded in conformance with the zoning in
effect prior to the date of adoption of this code, may be used as a building
site. For access purposes, each building site shall have a minimum 30- foot
wide easement or right-of-way. A turnaround with a minimum radius of 25 feet
shall be provided at the end of each easement over 150 feet in length.
      (2)   No fences or other obstructions shall be placed in the easement
area, except with written permission of all other property owners served by the
easement. For any parcel of land created after 1-3-1995, an access road to the
parcel must be provided prior to the delivery of any combustible building
materials. Said access road must be constructed to an all-weather standard.
   (B)   Special requirements; procedure for the establishment of CN-2/A Zones.
      (1)   Preliminary development plans.
         (a)   The application for a CN-2/A Zone classification shall be
accompanied by a preliminary development plan consisting of maps, drawings and
such other materials necessary to show:
            1.   The approximate size, shape and location of all proposed
buildings and the intended uses of all buildings;
            2.   The on-site parking arrangements and design, including loading
areas;
            3.   The proposed signing policy for all proposed uses;
            4.   The location and treatment of required and proposed landscape
areas; and
            5.   The proposed off-site circulation pattern including right-of-
way dedications, street improvements, traffic control measures, location and
design of driveway openings and acceleration/deceleration lanes.
         (b)   The preliminary development plan is required to enable the
Commission and the Town Council to assess the impact of the proposed shopping
center on surrounding uses, its relationship to the objectives of the Tusayan
Area Plan its relationship to zoning patterns in the neighborhood, and to
permit public agencies and utility services to review the adequacy of proposed
improvements and the impact of the development on existing and proposed
utilities and facilities.
      (2)   Adoption of development plans. The development plans shall be
approved by the Town Council and incorporated into the approval of the CN-2/
A Zone.
      (3)   Application. The above procedures shall not apply to the
establishment of a CN-2/A Zone classification at an existing neighborhood
shopping center.
   (C)   General requirements.
      (1)   The following requirements are minimums unless otherwise noted.
 CN-2/A CG-10,000 CH-10,000
                                             CN-2/A  CG-10,000 CH-10,000
Building site, square feet or acres          2 acres 10,000 sf 10,000 sf
Front yard, in feet                          20      20        20
Lot coverage, maximum                        35%
Lot depth, in feet                           150     100       100
Lot width, in feet                           200     60        50
Off-street parking                           See §
                                             15
Rear yard, in feet                           10      0         0
Side yard - interior and rear yard, in feet, 20      20        20
adjacent to G, AR, RR, RS or RM Zones
Side yard - interior, in feet                10      -         -
Side yard - street side, in feet             10      20        20
Structure height, maximum, in feet           35      35        40
 
      (2)   All setbacks shall be measured from property lines. In situations
where an access easement is located along a property line, the setback shall be
measured from the interior edge of any access easement line. Where an access
easement bisects any parcel of land, said easement shall be considered a street
for setback purposes and street side setbacks shall apply.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 11.3  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: COMMERCIAL ZONES.
   (A)   Trailers, park models or manufactured homes shall be permitted for
temporary office use only during construction of a permanent building for a
period not to exceed 12 months with an approved temporary use permit. Modular
homes built to Building Code commercial standards shall be permitted.
   (B)   In all Commercial Zones, required front and street side yards shall be
landscaped to a depth of not less than six feet. Remaining front and street
side yard areas or setbacks may be used for required off-street parking.
   (C)   Where a commercial or office use abuts property in any G, AR, RR, RS
or RM Zone, a masonry wall six feet in height as measured from the highest
adjacent grade shall be erected and maintained between such uses and the
Residential Zone. Alternatives to masonry, including double-sided solid wood
fencing, stuccoed wood frame walls, native stone or rock veneered walls or an
adequate vegetative buffer, may be approved by the Town Manager, his or her
designee or the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   Wherever off-street parking areas are situated across the street from
property in a G, AR, RR, RS or RM Zone, a masonry wall or berm three feet in
height shall be erected between the required landscaped area and the parking
area to adequately screen said parking areas from the residential properties.
   (E)   All required landscaping shall be permanently maintained in a neat and
orderly condition. In addition to front and street side yard landscaping
requirements, additional landscaping requirements are contained in §
15.3, Site Development Standards for Off-Street Parking.
   (F)   All mechanical equipment, including heating and air conditioning
units, shall be completely screened from surrounding properties by use of a
wall or fence or shall be enclosed within a building. Facilities for the
operation of solar or alternate energy systems may be exempted from this
requirement, subject to the approval of the Town Manager or designee.
   (G)   Trash receptacles enclosed with solid masonry walls and with gates
shall be provided for each commercial use. Said receptacles shall be set back a
minimum of 20 feet from any G, AR, RR, RS or RM Zone boundary and shall be
maintained in a neat and sanitary condition in order to safeguard the health,
safety and general welfare of adjacent properties, subject to the approval of
Town Manager or designee.
   (H)   Noise shall not be knowingly generated by any use to the point of
disturbing the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring residences or the
operation of businesses.
   (I)   Methods of screening for outdoor storage may include acceptable wooden
fencing, masonry walls, rock walls, landscaped berms or vegetative screening.
All facilities for outdoor storage shall be subject to the review and approval
of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (J)   All outdoor area lighting and aerial mounted floodlighting shall be
shielded from above in such a manner that the bottom edge of the shield shall
be below the light source.
   (K)   All lighting sources shall be aimed or shielded so that the direct
illumination shall be confined to the property boundaries of the light source.
   (L)   The operation of searchlights or similar lighting sources for
advertising display or any other commercial purpose is prohibited.
   (M)   Ground-mounted floodlighting or light projection above the horizontal
plane is prohibited between midnight and sunrise.
   (N)   A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be obtained
prior to the construction, reconstruction, alteration of change in use of any
building or other structure.
   (O)   The outdoor storage of any items, including, but not limited to, items
for sale, unlicensed and/or inoperable vehicles, travel trailers, boats,
recreational vehicles or secondhand materials is prohibited, unless a
conditional use permit is approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission for
said outdoor storage.
   (P)   Outdoor music in an outdoor dining area shall be maintained so as not
to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring businesses or residents.
All outdoor live or recorded music shall cease at 10:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 11.4  SIGNS: COMMERCIAL ZONES.
   No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be permitted in any
Commercial Zone, except as provided in §
16.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 11.5  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: COMMERCIAL ZONES.
   (A)   In any Commercial Zone, accessory structures shall not be located in
front of the main building.
   (B)   In any Commercial Zone, accessory structures shall meet all of the
setback requirements for main buildings.
   (C)   In any Commercial Zone, porches, steps, architectural features such as
attached canopies or eaves, chimneys, balconies or stairways may not project
more than four feet into any required yard area. Greater projections may be
permitted when it is demonstrated that such additional projections are needed
for solar or alternate energy purposes, subject to the approval of the Town
Manager or designee.
   (D)   In any Commercial Zone, detached canopies shall be considered
accessory structures and shall meet all of the setback requirements for main
buildings. No portion of the canopy shall extend into the setback areas.
Canopies may be located in front of the main building outside the required
front and street side landscape areas.
   (E)   The use of mobile homes, semi-trailers, railroad cars, shipping
containers, travel trailers, camper shells or similar units as accessory
structures is prohibited. Metal storage containers may be permitted; refer to §
14.7.
   (F)   For the purpose of this section, swimming pools shall be considered to
be a detached structure. Swimming pools including all accessory or appurtenant
structures and equipment shall maintain a minimum setback of five feet from all
property lines and buildings. As a precaution against unauthorized use,
swimming pools shall be enclosed by a wall or fence not less than five feet in
height in accordance with the requirements of the town.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 11.6  WALLS AND FENCES: COMMERCIAL ZONES.
   (A)   In any required front or street side yard area, an opaque or solid
wall or fence shall not exceed three feet in height. Non-opaque fences, which
are at least 50% transparent, may be established in any required front or
street side yard area to a maximum height of six feet.
   (B)   A wall or solid fence not more than six feet in height, as measured
from the highest adjacent grade, may be maintained along the interior side or
rear lot lines; provided that, such wall or fence does not extend into a
required front or street side yard. Extensions of walls or solid fences into
required front or street side yards may not exceed three feet in height.
Stacking firewood along a property line shall be considered a wall or fence and
must meet height limits.
   (C)   Walls or fences exceeding six feet in height may be permitted only
through the variance procedure set forth in §
20 and subject to the granting of a building permit.
   (D)   A wall or fence adjacent to a driveway providing vehicular access to
an abutting lot shall not exceed three feet in height within 15 feet of the
intersection of said driveway and the street right-of- way so as not to
obstruct visibility.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a wall or fence
required by any law or regulation of the state or any agency thereof.
   (F)   Barbed wire, electrical fences, glass or other similar hazardous
objects on top of walls and fences in Commercial Zones may be permitted,
subject to the approval of the Town Manager, his or her designee or the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (G)   Tires may not be used to construct walls, unless they are fully
encapsulated so as to prevent the accumulation of water inside the tires, and
subject to the granting of a building permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 12:  INDUSTRIAL ZONES
Section
   
12.0   Purposes
   
12.1   Permitted and conditional uses: Industrial Zones
   
12.2   Property development standards: Industrial Zones
   
12.3   Performance standards: Industrial Zones
   
12.4   Signs: Industrial Zones
   
12.5   Accessory structures: Industrial Zones
   
12.6   Walls and fences: Industrial Zones
§ 12.0  PURPOSES.
   (A)   General. In addition to the objectives outlined in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the Industrial Zones are included in the Zoning
Regulations to achieve the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide appropriately located areas for industrial uses and
protect these areas from intrusion by dwellings and other inharmonious uses;
      (2)   To protect residential, commercial and nuisance-free, non-hazardous
industrial uses from noise, odor, dust, smoke, truck traffic and other
objectionable influences and from fire, explosion, radiation and other hazards
incidental to certain industrial uses;
      (3)   To provide sufficient open space around industrial structures to
protect them from hazard and to minimize the impact of industrial plants on
nearby Residential or Commercial Zones; and
      (4)   To minimize traffic congestion and to avoid the overloading of
utilities by restricting the construction of buildings of excessive size in
relation to the amount of land around them.
   (B)   MP-20,000, Industrial Park Zone. This zone is intended for modern
industrial and research developments and administrative facilities that can
meet high performance and development standards.
   (C)   M-1-10,000, Light Industrial Zone. This zone is intended for light
industrial and limited service commercial uses that can meet high performance
standards, but that frequently do not meet site development standards
appropriate to planned research and development of industrial parks.
   (D)   M-2-6,000, Heavy Industrial Zone. This zone is intended for heavy
industrial uses in those areas of the town which are designated for general
industrial uses on the Tusayan Area Plan.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 12.1  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES: INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted where the symbol “P” appears and
shall be permitted uses, subject to a conditional use permit where the symbol
“C” appears in the column beneath each zone designation.
   (B)   All uses not listed are prohibited. For uses similar to those listed,
see §
20.1.
      (1)   Manufacturing uses.
 MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
                                                 MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
Borrow pits                                      -         C          C
Bottling plants                                  P         P          P
Cement products manufacturing                    -         C          C
Electronics: electrical and related parts;
electrical appliances, motors and devices;       P         P          P
radio; television and phonograph
Food and dairy products processing and           -         C          C
manufacturing including frozen foods
Furniture manufacturing and upholstering         P         P          P
Instruments: scientific and precision; medical   P         P          P
and dental; timing and measuring
Laboratories: dental, medical, electrical,       P         P          P
optical and mechanical
Machine shop                                     C         C          P
Manufacture of novelty items, not including      P         P          P
fireworks or other explosive-type items
Manufacturing and maintenance of electrical and  P         P          P
other signs
Manufacturing, compounding, assembly or
treatment of articles or merchandise from the
following previously prepared typical materials:
canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, felt, fiber,    P         P          P
fur, glass, leather, paper (no milling),
precious or semi-precious stones or metals, non-
ferrous metals, plaster, plastics, shells,
textiles, tobacco, wood and yarns
Manufacturing of fireworks or other explosive-   -         -          C
type items
Mineral extraction operations                    -         C          C
Office and related machinery: audio machinery;
computers, electrical and manual; visual and     P         P          P
reproductive machinery
Oil pumping, distributing or storage facility    C         C          C
Packing houses                                   -         C          P
Pharmaceuticals: cosmetics, drugs, perfumes,
toiletries and soap (not including refining or   P         P          P
rendering of oils or fats)
Refining or rendering of oils or fats            -         -          C
Rubber and metal stamp manufacturing             P         P          P
Rubber products manufacturing                    -         C          C
Stone quarries, gravel pits, mines and stone     -         C          C
mills
 
      (2)   Wholesale and warehousing.
 
                                        MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
Mini- or self-serve warehouse uses      P         P          P
Warehousing operations                  P         P          P
Wholesale uses and distribution centers C         P          P
 
      (3)   Services.
 MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
                                                MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
Airports and heliports                          C         C          C
Animal shelter or hospital                      C         P          P
Automobile, truck and tractor repair and        -         P          P
painting
Automobile wrecking yards                       -         -          C
Automotive sales and services, including rental C         P          P
agencies
Blacksmith operations                           -         P          P
Blueprinting and photocopying                   P         P          P
Boat, camper and recreational vehicle sales and C         P          P
service
Business, professional and research offices     P         P          P
Cleaning and dying plants                       -         C          C
Commercial sales establishments dealing
principally with industrial customers such as
heavy construction and earth-moving equipment,  -         C          P
machines, presses, forges, material sales and
related uses
Contractor’s yards                            -         C          P
Equipment rental yards                          -         C          P
Food locker facilities                          -         P          P
Fuel sales                                      -         C          C
Junk yards                                      -         -          C
Kennels and stables                             -         C          P
Lumber and building material yards              -         C          P
Newspaper publishing                            P         P          P
Plumbing shops                                  -         P          P
Printing and lithography                        P         P          P
Restaurants                                     C         C          C
Rock, sand and gravel yards                     -         C          C
 
 
                                                                         MP-    M-1-   M-2-
                                                                         20,000 10,000 6,000
Service stations                                                         C      C      C
Solid waste hauler’s yard                                              -      C      C
Tire retreading and recapping                                            -      C      C
Trucking yards and truck stops                                           -      C      C
Wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the provisions of §  C      C      C
14.5
 
      (4)   Public and semi-public uses.
 
                                                 MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
Post offices and postal terminals                C         C          C
Public utility pumping stations, electrical
generating stations and sub- stations, equipment C         C          C
buildings and installations
Public utility service yards                     -         C          C
Sanitary landfill operations                     -         -          C
 
      (5)   Agricultural and related uses.
 
                                               MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
Agricultural and horticultural uses including  P         P          P
the sale of products raised on the premises
Commercial fertilizer operations               -         C          C
Domestic animal ranch or farming operations    P         P          P
Lumber mills and processing plants             -         C          P
Medical marijuana off-site cultivation and
infusion facilities, subject to the provisions -         P          P
of §
14.9
 
      (6)   Accessory uses.
 
                                                                                MP-    M-1-   M-2-
                                                                                20,000 10,000 6,000
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a permitted or        P      P      P
conditional use
Incidental services for employees on a site occupied by a permitted or          P      P      P
conditional use
Metal storage containers                                                        See §
                                                                                14.7
Watchperson’s or caretaker’s living quarters only when incidental to and on Phe    P      P
same site as a permitted or conditional use
 
      (7)   Temporary uses.
 
                                    MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
Temporary uses as prescribed in §  P         P          P
14.1
 
      (8)   Other uses. Other uses as may be determined by resolution of the
Planning and Zoning Commission to be consistent with the purposes outlined in §
12.0 and similar to and no more detrimental than existing permitted or
conditional uses in any Industrial Zone. Such other uses shall meet the
performance standards outlined in §
12.3.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 12.2  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   (A)   General. The following property development standards shall apply to
all land and buildings permitted in their respective Industrial Zones; except
that, any lot for which a bonafide deed was duly recorded in conformance with
the zoning in effect prior to the date of adoption of this code, may be used as
a building site. For access purposes, each building site shall have a minimum
30-foot wide easement or right-of-way. A turnaround with a minimum radius of 25
feet shall be provided at the end of each easement over 150 feet in length. No
fences or other obstructions shall be placed in the easement area, except with
written permission of all other property owners served by the easement. For any
parcel of land created after 1-3-1995, an access road to the parcel must be
provided prior to the delivery of any combustible building materials. Said
access road must be constructed to an all weather standard.
   (B)   Special requirements. When any Industrial Zone abuts or is situated
across the street from property in any Agricultural-Residential or Residential
Zone, a minimum building setback of 50 feet shall be required from such
Residential Zone; provided, however, that, the 20 feet of said setback nearest
the street or zone boundary line shall be landscaped and the remainder may be
used for off-street parking purposes as provided in § 15. A three-foot high
wall or berm shall be constructed in back of the landscaped area along street
setbacks; along all other lot lines adjacent to Residential Zones, a six-foot
high wall as measured from the highest adjacent grade and screen landscaping
shall be erected and maintained.
   (C)   General requirements. The following requirements are minimum unless
otherwise noted.
 MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
                              MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
Building height, in feet      40        40         40
Building site, in square feet 20,000    10,000     6,000
Front yard, in feet           20        10         10
Lot coverage, maximum         60%       60%        -
Lot depth, in feet            150       100        100
Lot width, in feet            100       100        60
Off-street parking            See §
                              15
 
 
                                 MP-20,000 M-1-10,000 M-2-6,000
Rear yard, in feet               20        -          -
Side yard, in feet               15        -          -
Side yard - street side, in feet 20        10         10
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 12.3  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   (A)   General. In all Industrial Zones, required front and street side yards
shall be landscaped to a depth of not less than ten feet. Remaining front and
street side yard areas or setbacks may be used for required off-street parking.
   (B)   Landscape maintenance. All required landscaping shall be permanently
maintained in a neat and orderly condition.
   (C)   Enclosures. Trash receptacles enclosed with solid masonry walls and
with gates shall be provided for each industrial use. Said receptacles shall be
set back a minimum of 20 feet from any G, AR, RR, RS or RM Zone boundary and
shall be maintained in a neat and sanitary condition in order to safeguard the
health, safety and general welfare of adjacent properties, subject to the
approval of the Town Manager or designee.
   (D)   Screening. All mechanical equipment, including heating and air
conditioning units, and trash receptacle areas shall be completely screened
from surrounding properties by use of a wall or fence or shall be enclosed
within a building. Facilities for the operation of solar or other alternate
energy systems may be exempted from this requirement, subject to the approval
of the Town Manager or designee.
   (E)   Electrical disturbance, heat and cold, glare. No use, except a
temporary construction operation, shall be permitted which creates changes in
temperature or direct glare, detectable by the human senses without the aid of
instruments, beyond the boundaries of the site. No use shall be permitted which
creates electrical disturbances that affect the operation of any equipment
beyond the boundaries of the site.
   (F)   Fire and explosion hazards. All storage of and activities involving
inflammable and explosive materials shall be provided with adequate safety and
fire fighting devices to the specifications of the Tusayan Fire District. All
incineration is prohibited.
   (G)   Odor. No use shall be permitted which creates annoying odor in such
quantities as to be readily detectable beyond the boundaries of the site.
   (H)   Radioactivity. In all Industrial Zones, the use of radioactive
materials shall be limited to measuring, gauging and calibration devices.
   (I)   Vibration. No use except a temporary construction operation shall be
permitted which generates inherent and recurrent ground vibration perceptible,
without instruments, at the boundary of the lot in which the use is located.
   (J)   Fencing. Outdoor storage areas shall be entirely fenced with a
material not less than six feet in height. Those areas visible from a public
street shall be adequately screened by masonry walls or a substitute acceptable
to the Town Manager or designee.
   (K)   Noise. Noise shall not be generated by any use to the point of
disturbing the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring residences or
businesses.
   (L)   Hazardous and non-hazardous waste materials. No hazardous material
shall be disposed on the premises. All such materials shall be transported to a
landfill site officially designated by the state for hazardous materials
disposal. Only non-hazardous materials produced on the premises may be disposed
of on the premises; provided that, such disposal be contained in a manner so as
to prevent entry of such materials into the surface water system.
   (M)   Solid waste disposal. All solid waste generated by an industrial use
which is not disposed on-site shall be transported to a county landfill site
for proper disposition.
   (N)   Solar and alternate energy systems. Apparatus needed for the operation
of active or passive solar energy systems or other alternate energy systems,
including, but not limited to, overhangs, movable insulating walls and roofs,
attached or detached solar collectors, reflectors and piping may be permitted
for any use, subject to the approval and specifications of the Town Manager or
designee.
   (O)   Lighting.
      (1)   All outdoor lighting and aerial mounted floodlighting shall be
shielded from above in such a manner that the bottom edge of the shield shall
be below the light source.
      (2)   All lighting sources shall be aimed or shielded so that the direct
illumination shall be confined to the property boundaries of the light source.
      (3)   The operation of searchlights or similar lighting sources for
advertising, display or any other commercial purpose is prohibited.
      (4)   Ground-mounted floodlighting or light projection above the
horizontal plane is prohibited between midnight and sunrise.
   (P)   Conformance testing. Whenever there is a question of conformance with
the performance standards of this section, the Town Manager or designee shall
require the property owner or operator to engage the services of a certified
testing firm. Copies of all such tests shall be furnished to the Town Manager
or designee.
   (Q)   Permit. A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be
obtained prior to the construction, reconstruction, alteration or change in use
of any building or other structure.
   (R)   Outdoor storage. The outdoor storage of any items, including, but not
limited to, items for sale, unlicensed and/or inoperable vehicles, travel
trailers, boats or secondhand materials is prohibited, unless a conditional use
permit is approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission for said outdoor
storage.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 12.4  SIGNS: INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be permitted in any
Industrial Zone, except as provided in §
16.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 12.5  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   (A)   In any Industrial Zone, accessory structures shall not be located in
front of the main building.
   (B)   In any Industrial Zone, accessory structures shall meet all of the
setback requirements for main buildings.
   (C)   In any Industrial Zone, architectural features, canopies, eaves or
stairways may project not more than one-half the width of the required setback.
Greater projections may be permitted when it is demonstrated that such
additional projections are needed for solar or alternate energy purposes,
subject to the approval of the Town Manager or designee.
   (D)   In any Industrial Zone, accessory structures used for the selling of
agricultural products shall be subject to the review and approval of the Town
Manager or designee.
   (E)   Metal storage containers may be permitted; refer to §
14.7.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 12.6  WALLS AND FENCES: INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   (A)   In any required front or street side yard area, an opaque or solid
wall or fence shall not exceed three feet in height. Non-opaque fences, which
are at least 50% transparent, may be established in any required front or
street side yard area to a maximum height of six feet.
   (B)   A wall or solid fence not more than six feet in height, as measured
from the highest adjacent grade, may be maintained along the interior side or
rear lot lines; provided that, such wall or fence does not extend into a
required front or street side yard. Extensions of walls or solid fences into
required front or street side yards may not exceed three feet in height.
Stacking firewood along a property line shall be considered a wall or fence and
must meet height limits.
   (C)   Walls or fences exceeding six feet in height may be permitted only
through the variance procedure set forth in §
20 and subject to the granting of a building permit.
   (D)   A wall or fence adjacent to a driveway providing vehicular access to
an abutting lot shall not exceed three feet in height within 15 feet of the
intersection of said driveway and the street right-of-way.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a wall or fence
required by any law or regulation of the state or any agency thereof.
   (F)   Barbed wire, electrical fences, broken glass or other similar
hazardous objects on top of walls and fences in Industrial Zones may be
permitted, subject to the approval of the Town Manager or designee.
   (G)   Tires may not be used to construct walls, unless they are fully
encapsulated so as to prevent the accumulation of water inside the tires, and
subject to the granting of a building permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 13:  SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONES
Section
   
13.0   Purposes
   
13.1   MHP - Manufactured Home Park Zone
      
13.1-1   Purpose
      
13.1-2   Property development standards: MHP Zone
      
13.1-3   Screening and landscaping: MHP Zone
      
13.1-4   Permitted and conditional uses: MHP Zone
      
13.1-5   General requirements
      
13.1-6   Interior site development standards: MHP Zone
      
13.1-7   Performance standards
      
13.1-8   Accessory structures: MHP Zone
      
13.1-9   Walls and fences: MHP Zone
      
13.1-10   Pre-application procedure: MHP Zone
      
13.1-11   Application requirements: MHP Zone
      
13.1-12   Adoption of development plans and maps: MHP Zone
      
13.1-13   Amendments to the development plan: MHP Zone
      
13.1-14   Pre-existing manufactured home parks: MHP Zone
      
13.1-15   Signs: MHP Zone
      
13.1-16   Manufactured home park subdivision
   
13.2   PRD - Planned Residential Development Zone
      
13.2-1   Purposes
      
13.2-2   Uses permitted: PRD Zone
      
13.2-3   Property development standards: PRD Zone
      
13.2-4   Signs: PRD Zone
      
13.2-5   Accessory uses and structures: PRD Zone
      
13.2-6   Pre-application procedure: PRD Zone
      
13.2-7   Application, development plans and maps: PRD Zone
      
13.2-8   Adoption of development plans and maps: PRD Zone
      
13.2-9   Amendments to the development plans: PRD Zone
      
13.2-10   Findings
   
13.3   PC - Planned Community Zone
      
13.3-1   Purposes
      
13.3-2   Uses permitted: PC Zone
      
13.3-3   General requirements: PC Zone
      
13.3-4   Pre-application procedure: PC Zone
      
13.3-5   Development plan: PC Zone
      
13.3-6   Adoption of development plan: PC Zone
      
13.3-7   Amendments to the development plan: PC Zone
      
13.3-8   Application for conditional use permit development: PC Zone
      
13.3-9   Building permits: PC Zone
   
13.4   PS - Public and Semi-Public Zone
      
13.4-1   Purposes
      
13.4-2   Permitted and conditional uses: PS Zone
      
13.4-3   Property development standards: PS Zone
      
13.4-4   Screening and landscaping: PS Zone
      
13.4-5   Off-street parking: PS Zone
      
13.4-6   Signs: PS Zone
   
13.5   OS - Open Space and Conservation Zone
      
13.5-1   Purposes
      
13.5-2   Permitted and conditional uses: OS Zone
      
13.5-3   Screening and landscaping: OS Zone
      
13.5-4   Off-street parking: OS Zone
      
13.5-5      Signs: OS Zone
   
13.6   FPM - Floodplain Management Overlay Zone
      
13.6-1   Statutory authorization, findings of fact, purpose and methods
      
13.6-2   Definitions
      
13.6-3   General provisions: FPM Zone
      
13.6-4   Permitted and conditional uses: FPM Zone
      
13.6-5   Administration
      
13.6-6   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
      
13.6-7   Property development standards: FPM Zone
      
13.6-8   Variance procedure
   
13.7   RC - Resort Commercial Zone
      
13.7-1   Purposes
      
13.7-2   Uses permitted: RC Zone
      
13.7-3   General requirements: RC Zone
      
13.7-4   Development plan: RC Zone
      
13.7-5   Adoption of development plan: RC Zone
      
13.7-6   Amendments to the development plan: RC Zone
      
13.7-7   Building permits: RC Zone
   
13.8   P - Parking Zone
      
13.8-1   Purposes
      
13.8-2   Permitted and conditional uses: P Zone
      
13.8-3   Property development and performance standards: P Zones
      
13.8-4   Signs: P Zones
   
13.9   MR - Mineral Resource Zone
      
13.9-1   Purposes
      
13.9-2   Permitted and conditional uses: MR Zone
      
13.9-3   Property development standards: MR Zone
      
13.9-4   Performance standards: MR Zone
      
13.9-5   Off-street parking: MR Zone
      
13.9-6   Signs: MR Zone
   
13.10   Design Review
      
13.10-1   Purposes
      
13.10-2   Special provisions
      
13.10-3   Design standards and guidelines
      
13.10-4   Application required
      
13.10-5   Action by the Planning and Zoning Commission
      
13.10-6   Effective date of design review decision
      
13.10-7   Appeal to the Town Council
      
13.10-8   Action by Town Council on appeal
      
13.10-9   Lapse of design review approval
   
13.11   RMH - Residential and Manufactured Home Zone
      
13.11-1   Purposes
      
13.11-2   Permitted and conditional uses: RMH Zone
      
13.11-3   Property development standards: RMH Zone
      
13.11-4   Performance standards: RMH Zone
      
13.11-5   Signs: RMH Zone
      
13.11-6   Accessory structures: RMH Zone
      
13.11-7   Walls and fences: RMH Zone
§ 13.0  PURPOSES.
   Because of their special or unique characteristics and the need to implement
specific sections of the Tusayan Area Plan, the following Special Purpose Zones
are established:
Section Zone
Section Zone
13.1    MHP, Manufactured Home Park
13.2    PRD, Planned Residential Development
13.3    PC, Planned Community
13.4    PS, Public and Semi-Public
13.5    OS, Open Space and Conservation
13.6    FPM, Floodplain Management Overlay
13.7    RC, Resort Commercial
13.8    P,  Parking
13.9    MR, Mineral Resource
 
 
Section Zone
13.10   DR, Design Review
13.11   RMH, Residential and Manufactured Home
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1  MHP - MANUFACTURED HOME PARK ZONE.
§ 13.1-1  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The MHP, Manufactured Home Park Zone, is intended for the exclusive
development of manufactured home parks.
   (B)   All manufactured home parks hereinafter shall be developed in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-2  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: MHP ZONE.
   The following regulations shall apply to the site of a manufactured home
park. Additional regulations may be specified as conditions of approval of
design review by the Planning Commission or as conditions of approval for the
establishment of an MHP Zone:
 
Density, maximum 10 units per acre
Minimum frontage 200 feet, continuous frontage
Minimum yards    20 feet adjoining a street; 15 feet adjoining an interior lot
                 line
                 Minimum of 250 square feet of recreation area for each
Recreation area  manufactured home space. This requirement shall be increased
                 to 300 square feet per manufactured home space if children
                 under the age of 18 are permitted within the development
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-3  SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING: MHP ZONE.
   Screening shall be provided around the entire site of a manufactured home
park; except that, where a required yard adjoins a street, screening shall be
located at the rear of the required yard. Required yards shall be landscaped
and said landscaping shall consist predominantly of plant materials, except for
necessary walks, drives and fences. All required landscaping shall be
permanently maintained in a neat and orderly condition.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-4  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES: MHP ZONE.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted where the symbol “P” appears and
shall be permitted uses, subject to a conditional use permit where the symbol
“C” appears in the column to the right.
   (B)   All uses not listed are prohibited. For uses similar to those listed,
see §
20.1.
      (1)   Residential uses.
 
                  MHP Zone
Manufactured home P
Modular home      P
Park model        P
 
      (2)   Public and semi-public uses.
 
                                                    MHP Zone
Churches, convents and other religious institutions C
Day care centers                                    P
Group homes                                         C
Preschools                                          C
 
 
                                                                      MHP Zone
Public parks and recreational facilities                              C
Public utility and public service sub-stations, reservoirs, water
storage tanks, pumping plants or similar installations (not including C
public utility offices)
Schools, educational institutions, public or private                  C
 
      (3)   Home occupations.
 
                                               MHP Zone
Home occupations, subject to provisions of §  P
14.2
 
      (4)   Accessory uses.
 
                                                                      MHP Zone
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a           C
conditional use
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a permitted P
use
 
      (5)   Temporary uses.
 
                              MHP Zone
Model homes and sales offices C
Temporary uses as per §      P
14.1
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-5  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following are minimum unless otherwise noted:
 
Distance between buildings                                         10 feet
Dwelling units per lot, parcel or manufactured home space, maximum 1
Front yard                                                         10 feet
 
Lot coverage, maximum      40%
Lot or space size in square feet
   Parks and rental spac4,000
   Subdivided lots      5,000
Maximum height             20 feet
Off-street parking spaces  2 spaces
Rear yard                  10 feet
Side yard
   Interior             5 feet
   Street               10 feet
Subdivided lot
   Minimum width        50 feet
   Minimum depth        100 feet
 
   (B)   Where a property is adjacent to the national forest, the required side
or rear yard minimum setback shall be 80% of the setback shown above; except
that, in no case shall the setback be less than five feet.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-6  INTERIOR SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: MHP ZONE.
   (A)   The following requirements shall apply to development of manufactured
home spaces and to facilities within a manufactured home park.
   (B)   Additional requirements may be specified as conditions of design
review or as conditions of approval for the establishment of an MHP Zone.
      (1)   Manufactured home space. Each space shall contain a minimum of
4,000 square feet for exclusive use by the occupants of the space. Each space
shall have at least 40 feet of width adjoining an access drive. Each space
shall have dimensions capable of accommodating a rectangle with minimum
dimensions of 45 feet by 65 feet.
      (2)   Manufactured home placement. Each manufactured home shall be
located not less than five feet from the boundary of a manufactured home space;
except that, carports, patio covers, storage buildings and similar structures
accessory to a manufactured home may be located not less than four feet from
the boundary of a manufactured home space.
      (3)   Access drives. All manufactured home access drives within a
manufactured home park shall be privately owned, and shall have at least 28
feet of pavement width, exclusive of adjoining parking areas, and shall be
constructed to town standards.
      (4)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks at least five feet in width shall be provided
to serve each manufactured home space and to serve all central or common
facilities within the manufactured home park. Sidewalks need not adjoin access
drives.
      (5)   Landscaping. Not less than 20% of each manufactured home space
shall be landscaped, including at least one tree (minimum five-gallon size) on
each space. Credit will be given for existing landscaping.
      (6)   Minimum size manufactured home. The minimum size for a manufactured
home established within a manufactured home park shall be 400 square feet.
      (7)   Accessory buildings and uses. Accessory buildings and uses serving
the entire manufactured home park, including recreation facilities, laundry
areas, manufactured home park offices and maintenance or storage buildings,
shall be located at least 50 feet from the boundary of the manufactured home
park site. All exterior maintenance or storage areas shall be enclosed by a
six-foot high masonry wall.
      (8)   Parking. Two on-site parking spaces shall be provided for each
manufactured home space.
      (9)   Guest parking. Guest parking or recreational vehicle storage areas
shall be provided as required by the Commission.
      (10)   Skirting. Skirting shall be required for each manufactured home,
which skirting shall be complimentary to the design and coloration of the
manufactured home.
      (11)   Building permits. A building permit shall be required for the
establishment of a manufactured home or park model within a manufactured home
park.
      (12)   Cabanas. A cabana may be attached to a manufactured home;
providing, the cabana shall be complimentary to the design and coloration of
the manufactured home.
         (a)   A cabana is a portable and demountable room or enclosure. This
shall be interpreted to mean that such additions shall be constructed on only
pier type foundations.
         (b)   A cabana is used in conjunction with a manufactured home. This
shall be interpreted to mean that the interior square footage of the cabana
shall not exceed that of the manufactured home it is attached to; and that the
cabana shall be directly attached to the manufactured home so as to provide
interior access. Maximum height of the addition shall not exceed 15 feet.
         (c)   A cabana is a room, enclosure or other building. This shall be
interpreted to mean that stick-built type of additions constructed on-site
shall be in conformance with the applicable Building Codes as it pertains to
other conventional structures built in the town.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-7  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Air conditioners, heating, cooling, ventilating equipment, swimming
pool pumps and heaters and all other mechanical devices shall be screened from
surrounding properties and streets and shall be so operated that they do not
disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring residents. Facilities for
the operation of alternate energy systems shall be exempted from the screening
requirements when such screening will clearly restrict the efficient operation
of such systems.
   (B)   Required front and street side yards shall be landscaped, except for
necessary walks, drives and fences. Said required front and street side yards
shall not be used for the parking or storage of any motor vehicle or vehicle
accessory such as camper shells, trailers, motor bikes or other wheeled
accessory or convenience; except that, operable motor vehicles may be parked
upon the driveway or access way to the garage or carport. One motor vehicle or
travel trailer for sale may be parked on or adjacent to the driveway, but not
elsewhere in the front or street side setback areas.
   (C)   All required landscaping shall be permanently maintained in a neat and
orderly condition.
   (D)   A maximum area of 200 square feet may be used on any one lot or
manufactured home space for the outdoor storage of any used or secondhand
materials, including, but not limited to, lumber, inoperable or unlicensed
vehicles, auto parts, household appliances, pipe, drums, machinery or
furniture, unlicensed travel trailers or utility trailers; provided, however,
that, such outdoor storage shall be located to the rear of the main dwelling
and screened from surrounding properties and streets by a wall, non-transparent
fence, landscaping or structure. Any wall or fencing shall not exceed six feet
in height. Stored secondhand materials, vehicles, vehicle parts and the like
shall not be stacked so as to be visible above the required screening, or more
than six feet high. All permitted screened outdoor storage areas shall meet the
minimum required building setbacks as prescribed by this section. The
provisions of this division (D) shall not be so construed as to restrict the
storage of firewood maintained for fuel purposes and use by the occupant of the
premises.
   (E)   The overnight parking of heavy commercial vehicles, including, but not
limited to, semi-tractors, semi-trailers, dump trucks, equipment trailers,
backhoes and the like, is prohibited in the Manufactured Home Park Zone.
   (F)   Where public or semi-public uses are established, a masonry wall or
solid wood fence six feet in height as measured from the highest adjacent grade
and screen landscaping shall be erected and maintained between such uses and
adjacent residential uses on properties.
   (G)   Apparatus needed for the operation of active or passive solar energy
systems or other alternative energy systems, including, but not limited to,
overhangs, movable insulating walls and roofs, attached or detached solar
collectors, reflectors and piping shall be permitted for any use, subject to
the approval and specifications of the Town Manager or designee.
   (H)   In the MHP Zone, as a precaution against unauthorized use, swimming
pools when located within 300 feet of a neighboring residence shall be enclosed
by a wall or fence not less than five feet in height in accordance  with the
requirements of the town.
   (I)   In the MHP Zone, one recreational vehicle or travel trailer per lot or
parcel may be used for temporary residency not to exceed 100 days per year;
provided that, the lot or parcel is not already occupied by a dwelling or other
residential structure. A temporary use permit shall be obtained prior to
establishing said temporary residence, and the travel trailer or recreational
vehicle must be removed from the parcel upon the expiration of the temporary
use permit. Approval may be subject to conditions.
   (J)   A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be obtained
prior to the construction, reconstruction, alteration or change in use of any
building or other structure.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-8  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: MHP ZONE.
   (A)   Attached structures. An accessory structure that is attached to a main
structure shall meet all of the requirements for location of the main
structure, except as provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   Canopies. Canopies, or roofs attached to the main building or
connecting the main building with a detached accessory building, may extend
into a required rear or interior side yard; provided that, portions of such
structure extending into the yard:
      (1)   Shall not exceed 15 feet in height, nor project closer than five
feet to an interior side or rear lot line; and
      (2)   Shall be entirely open on at least three sides, except for
necessary supporting columns; except that, a roof connecting a main building
and an accessory building shall be open on at least two sides.
   (C)   Detached structures.
      (1)   A detached structure shall meet the setback requirements of the
main building for the front and street side yard areas.
      (2)   Although not requiring a building permit, accessory structures that
have a floor area of 120 square feet or less on parcels of one-half acre or
smaller shall meet the front and street side setbacks, but may be within six
feet of the main dwelling and three feet from any interior side or rear
property line. Structures that are 64 square feet or less and eight feet or
less in height measured to the highest peak may have a zero-foot separation
from the main dwelling and a one-foot interior side or rear setback as long as
the roof does not drain onto an adjacent property. If there is more than one
shed on a property, there must be at lease a six-foot separation between sheds.
      (3)   A detached accessory structure which does not exceed 15 feet in
height or 600 square feet in area may be located within an interior side yard
or rear yard; provided, however, that, such structure shall not be located
closer than five feet to an interior side or rear lot line unless said
structure meets one- hour fire wall construction as specified in the
International Building Code.
      (4)   A detached accessory structure which exceeds 15 feet in height, or
600 square feet in area, shall maintain the same minimum side and rear setbacks
as required for the main dwelling.
      (5)   A detached accessory structure (over 120 square feet) shall
maintain a minimum ten-foot separation from the main structure.
      (6)   For the purpose of administering this section, swimming pools shall
be considered to be a detached structure.
      (7)   The use of mobile homes, semi-trailers, railroad cars, shipping
containers, travel trailers, camper shells or similar units as accessory
structures is prohibited.
      (8)   Bathroom facilities shall be limited to one sink and one toilet.
      (9)   No kitchen facilities or wet bars shall be permitted.
   (D)   Other structures.
      (1)   Steps, architectural features, such as eaves, awnings, chimneys,
stairways, wing walls or bay windows, may project not more than six feet into
any required front, street side or rear yard area, nor into any required side
yard area more than one-half of said required side yard. Greater projections
may be permitted when it is demonstrated that such additional projections are
needed for solar or alternate energy purposes, subject to the approval of the
Town Manager or designee.
      (2)   Balconies, porches or decks shall not encroach or project into any
required setback area.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, swimming pools shall be considered
to be a detached structure. Swimming pools, including all accessory or
appurtenant structures and equipment, shall maintain a minimum setback of five
feet from all property lines and buildings. As a precaution against
unauthorized use, swimming pools shall be enclosed by a wall or fence not less
than five feet in height to the in accordance with the requirements of the
town.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-9  WALLS AND FENCES: MHP ZONE.
   (A)   In any required front or street side yard, an opaque or solid wall or
fence shall not exceed three feet in height. Non-opaque, which are at least 50%
transparent, fences may be established in any required front or street side
yard to a maximum height of six feet.
   (B)   (1)   A wall or solid fence not more than six feet in height, as
measured from the highest adjacent grade, may be maintained along the interior
side or rear lot lines; provided that, such wall or fence does not extend into
a required front or street side yard.
      (2)   Extensions of walls or solid fences into required front or street
side yards may not exceed three feet in height. Stacking firewood along a
property line shall be considered a wall or fence and must meet height limits.
   (C)   Walls or fences exceeding six feet in height may be permitted only
through the variance procedure set forth in §
20 and subject to the granting of a building permit.
   (D)   A wall or fence adjacent to a driveway providing vehicular access to
an abutting lot shall not exceed three feet in height within 15 feet of the
intersection of said driveway and the street right-of-way so as not to obstruct
visibility.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a wall or fence
required by any law or regulation of the state or any agency thereof.
   (F)   Tires may not be used to construct walls, unless they are fully
encapsulated so as to prevent the accumulation of water inside the tires, and
subject to the granting of a building permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-10  PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE: MHP ZONE.
   Prior to submitting an application for a manufactured home park, the
applicant or prospective developer should hold preliminary consultations with
the town staff to obtain information and guidance before entering into binding
commitments or incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans,
surveys and other data. Such preliminary consultations should be relative to a
general plan which expresses the concepts to be embodied in the proposed
development.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-11  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS: MHP ZONE.
   (A)   An application for the establishment of a manufactured home park zone
must be accompanied with a general development plan showing the location,
design and configuration of each manufactured home space and all accessory
buildings and uses. The development plan shall also show the location and
design of the following:
      (1)   Access drives, sidewalks and parking spaces;
      (2)   Walls and fences;
      (3)   Lighting;
      (4)   Drainage and sanitary sewer facilities;
      (5)   Electrical and water service;
      (6)   Fire protection facilities;
      (7)   Refuse collection facilities; and
      (8)   Landscape plan.
   (B)   Water and drainage reports prepared by a registered professional
engineer shall be submitted with the application. A report on the proposed
wastewater system prepared by a registered sanitary engineer shall also be
submitted (may be waived based on a commitment from an approved wastewater
treatment provider).
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-12  ADOPTION OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND MAPS: MHP ZONE.
   Prior to the development of the manufactured home park, the development
plans and maps submitted with the application for a manufactured home park
shall be approved and adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-13  AMENDMENTS TO THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: MHP ZONE.
   All development within the MHP Zone shall comply substantially with the
development plans as approved and adopted by the Town Council. Any amendments
to the development plans shall be accomplished in the same manner as an
amendment to the zoning regulations as prescribed in §
20.4.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-14  PRE-EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS: MHP ZONE.
   A pre-existing manufactured home park shall not be deemed non-conforming by
reason of failure to meet the minimum requirements prescribed by this section;
provided that, the regulations of this section shall apply to the remodeling,
enlargement or expansion of an existing manufactured home park.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-15  SIGNS: MHP ZONE.
   No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be permitted in any MHP Zone,
except as provided in §
16.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.1-16  MANUFACTURED HOME PARK SUBDIVISION.
   The division of land for the establishment of a manufactured home
subdivision shall comply with all of the requirements of this section and the
town’s Subdivision Ordinance.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2  PRD - PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT ZONE.
§ 13.2-1  PURPOSES.
   (A)   Planned residential development regulations are intended to facilitate
development of areas designated for residential use by the Tusayan Area Plan by
permitting greater flexibility and, consequently, more creative and imaginative
designs for the development of such residential areas than generally is
possible under conventional zoning and subdivision regulations.
   (B)   These regulations are further intended to promote more economical and
efficient use of the land while providing a harmonious variety of housing
choices, a higher level of urban amenities and preservation of natural and
scenic qualities of open spaces.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2-2  USES PERMITTED: PRD ZONE.
   (A)   Planned residential developments;
   (B)   Parks, playgrounds, riding and hiking trails, recreational buildings,
structures and facilities; clubhouses, community centers and similar uses;
provided, all such uses are designed for and limited to use by residents of the
planned development and their guests;
   (C)   Public utility installations;
   (D)   Accessory uses and structures incidental to permitted uses;
   (E)   Temporary uses as prescribed in §
14.1;
   (F)   Model home and subdivision sales offices, subject to the granting of a
conditional use permit;
   (G)   Guest houses and accessory living quarters shall be permitted, subject
to the provisions of §
10.1(B)(1)(b);
   (H)   Day care centers;
   (I)   Keeping of horses and other farm-type animals shall be permitted,
subject to the provisions of §§
10.1(B)(1)(b) and 10.2(B)(5);
   (J)   Home occupations, subject to the provisions of §
14.2;
   (K)   Cottage industries, subject to the granting of a conditional use
permit and the provisions of §
14.3; and
   (L)   Wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the provisions of §
14.5.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2-3  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: PRD ZONE.
   The following development requirements shall apply to all planned
residential developments.
   (A)   The planned residential development shall be designed and developed in
a manner compatible with and complimentary to existing and potential
residential development in the immediate vicinity of the project site. Site
planning on the perimeter shall provide for the protection of the property from
adverse surrounding influences, as well as protection of the surrounding areas
from potentially adverse influences within the development.
   (B)   There shall be no minimum area requirement for individual lots or
individual dwelling sites in a planned residential development.
   (C)   The maximum number of dwelling units permitted in a planned
residential development shall be determined by dividing the total land area
within the boundaries of the proposed development by the density restrictions
designated by the existing zone classification or by the action of the Town
Council.
   (D)   (1)   The following specific site development requirements shall apply
to a PRD in any zone; these requirements are minimum unless otherwise noted:
Building height, maximum, in feet        35
Dwelling unit size, square feet          1,150
Front yard, in feet                      25
Guest parking spaces per unit, uncovered 1
Parking spaces per unit, covered         1
Rear yard, in feet                       20
Side yard - interior, in feet            20
Side yard - street side, in feet         25
Site area, in acres                      10
Site coverage, maximum                   40%
Site frontage on public street, in feet  200
 
      (2)   Where a property is adjacent to the national forest, the required
side or rear yard minimum setback shall be 80% of the setback shown in division
(D)(1) above; except that, in no case shall the setback be less than five feet.
   (E)   Required open space shall comprise at least 35% of the total area of
the planned development. Land occupied by buildings, streets, driveways or
parking spaces may not be counted in satisfying this open space requirement;
provided, however, that, the land occupied by recreational buildings,
structures or uses may be counted as required open space.
   (F)   At least one-half of the required open space may be improved, or may
be left in its natural state, particularly if natural features worthy of
preservation exist on site. Open space left in its natural state shall be kept
free of litter and shall at no time constitute a health, safety, fire or flood
hazard. Areas devoted to natural or improved flood control channels and those
areas encumbered by flowage, floodway or drainage easements may be applied
toward satisfying this portion of the total open space requirement.
   (G)   If development is to be accomplished in stages, the development plan
shall coordinate improvement of the open space, the construction of buildings,
structures and improvements in such open space and the construction of dwelling
units in order that each development stage achieves a proportionate share of
the total open space of the total planned development.
   (H)   All or any part of the required open space may be reserved for use in
common by the residents of the planned development. Areas permanently reserved
for common open space shall be reserved for the use and enjoyment of the
residents in a manner which makes the town, or a public district or public
agency, a party to and entitled to enforce the reservation, subject to approval
by the Town Attorney. The Planning Commission may require that open space
easements over the required open space be conveyed to the town.
   (I)   No building, except as hereafter provided, shall be located closer
than five feet from an interior vehicular or pedestrian way, court, plaza, open
parking lot or any other surfaced area reserved for public use or for use in
common by residents of the planned development. Such setback generally shall be
measured from the nearest edge of the surfaced area; provided, however, that,
where no sidewalk exists in conjunction with a public or private street, such
setback shall be measured from the nearest edge of the street right-of-way or
private road easement.
   (J)   No garage or carport having straight-in access from a public or
private street shall be located closer than 25 feet from the nearest edge of
the sidewalk of such street, or, where no sidewalk exists, from the nearest
edge of the street right-of-way or road easement, unless automatic garage door
openers are provided in the case of a garage; but in no case shall a garage or
carport be located closer than five feet.
   (K)   Spacing between buildings shall be at least ten feet.
   (L)   All public streets within or abutting the proposed planned development
shall be dedicated and improved to town specifications for the particular
classification of street. When the developer desires to retain any streets
within the development as private streets, such streets shall be constructed to
town standards and permanently reserved and maintained for their intended
purpose by means acceptable to the Planning Commission and the Town Manager or
designee. Other forms of access, such as pedestrian ways, courts, plazas,
driveways or open parking lots shall not be offered for dedication.
   (M)   Planned residential developments shall relate harmoniously to the
topography of the site, shall make suitable provision for the preservation of
water courses, drainage areas, wooded areas, rough terrain and similar natural
features and areas and shall be otherwise so designed as to use and retain such
natural features and amenities to the best advantage.
   (N)   All utilities within a planned development shall be placed
underground. A common central television antenna or receiver may be provided
with underground cable service to all dwelling units. All other external
television or radio antennas shall not be permitted; for the purposes of this
section, appurtenances and associated equipment such as surface-mounted
transformers, pedestal-mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and concealed
ducts in an underground system may be placed above ground.
   (O)   The type, number and location of fire hydrants and other fire
protective devices shall be subject to the specifications of the Tusayan Fire
District.
   (P)   A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be obtained
prior to the construction, reconstruction, alteration or change in use of any
building or other structure.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2-4  SIGNS: PRD ZONE.
   No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be permitted, except as
provided in §
16 (Signs) or as prescribed on the approved development plan.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2-5  ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES: PRD ZONE.
   Accessory uses and structures shall be located as specified on the
development plans as approved by the Planning Commission; provided, however,
that, accessory structures shall meet all of the setbacks for site development
as specified in §
13.2-3(D).
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2-6  PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE: PRD ZONE.
   Prior to submitting an application for a planned residential development,
the applicant or prospective developer should hold preliminary consultations
with town staff to obtain information and guidance before entering into binding
commitments or incurring substantial expense in the preparation of plans,
surveys and other data. Such preliminary consultations should be relative to a
general plan which expresses the concepts to be embodied in the proposed
development.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2-7  APPLICATION-DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND MAPS: PRD ZONE.
   (A)   An application for a planned residential development must be for a
parcel or parcels of land which is under the control of the person or
corporation proposing the development.
   (B)   The application shall be accompanied by the following plans and maps:
      (1)   A boundary survey map of the property; a tentative subdivision map
may be substituted if the applicant proposes to subdivide the property;
      (2)   Topography of the property and the preliminary proposed finished
grade shown at contour intervals of not to exceed five feet;
      (3)   The gross land area of the development, the present zoning
classification thereof, and the zoning classification and land use of the area
surrounding the proposed development, including the location of structures and
other improvements;
      (4)   A general development plan with at least the following details
shown to scale and dimensioned:
         (a)   Location of each existing and each proposed structure in the
development area, the use or uses to be contained therein, the number of
stories, the gross building and floor areas, approximate location of entrances
and loading points thereof;
         (b)   All streets, curb cuts, driving lanes, parking areas, loading
areas, public transportation points and illumination facilities for the same;
         (c)   All pedestrian walks, malls and open areas for the use of
occupants and members of the public;
         (d)   Location and height of all walls, fences and screen planting,
including a plan for the landscaping of the development and the method by which
such landscaping is to be accomplished;
         (e)   Types of surfacing, such as paving, turfing or gravel to be used
at the various locations;
         (f)   A preliminary grading plan of the area; and
         (g)   A preliminary report and overall plan describing proposed
provisions for storm drainage, sewage disposal, water supply and such other
public improvements and utilities as the town may require.
      (5)   Plans and elevations of buildings and structures sufficient to
indicate the architectural style and construction standards;
      (6)   The proposed means for assuring continuing existence, maintenance
and operation of the various common elements and facilities. If a community
association or similar governing structure is to be established, a copy of the
covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) shall be made a part of the
record. If the Town Council deems it necessary, upon advice of the Town
Attorney, the town shall be a party to such CC&Rs in order to ensure their
continuance and enforceability; and
      (7)   Such other information as may be required by town staff to permit
complete analysis and appraisal of the planned development.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2-8  ADOPTION OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND MAPS: PRD ZONE.
   The development plans and maps submitted with the application for a planned
residential development shall be approved and adopted by the Town Council and
included in the ordinance establishing the PRD Zone.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2-9  AMENDMENTS TO THE DEVELOPMENT PLANS: PRD ZONE.
   All development within the PRD Zone shall comply substantially with the
development plans as approved and adopted by the Town Council. Any amendments
to the development plans shall be accomplished in the same manner as an
amendment to the zoning regulations as prescribed in §
20.4.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.2-10  FINDINGS.
   As a condition necessary for the granting of a PRD Zone request, the
following findings shall be made:
   (A)   The development at the location proposed is consistent with and
conforms to the goals, objectives and policies of the Tusayan Area Plan or
specific plan for the area;
   (B)   The development and proposed location is consistent with the
objectives and standards of the PRD Zone and the Subdivision Ordinance;
   (C)   The development at the location proposed and the development standards
to be followed or maintained will not be detrimental to the public health,
safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or improvements in the
vicinity;
   (D)   The development will promote or preserve environmental qualities and
conserve energy usage and energy resources including the protection of adequate
sunlight for use of solar energy systems; and
   (E)   The development will promote any design standards established by the
Commission for the area in which the project is to be established.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.3  PC - PLANNED COMMUNITY ZONE.
§ 13.3-1  PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives outlined in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the Planned Community Zone is designed to achieve the
following purposes:
   (A)   To provide for the classification and development of parcels of land
as coordinated, comprehensive projects so as to take advantage of the superior
environment which can result from large-scale community planning;
   (B)   To allow diversification of land uses as they relate to each other in
a physical and environmental arrangement, while ensuring substantial compliance
with the provisions of this code; and
   (C)   To provide for a zone encompassing various types of land uses, such as
single- or two-family residential developments, multiple-housing developments,
professional and administrative office areas, commercial centers, industrial
parks or any public or semi-public use or combination of uses through the
adoption of a development plan and text materials which set forth land use
relationships and development standards.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.3-2  USES PERMITTED: PC ZONE.
   (A)   Those uses designated on the development plan for the particular PC
Zone as approved by the Town Council. Mobile homes are not permitted in a PC
Zoning District;
   (B)   The continuation of all land uses which existed in the zone at the
time of adoption of the development plan. Existing land uses shall either be
incorporated as part of the development plan or shall be terminated in
accordance with a specific abatement schedule submitted and approved as part of
the development plan;
   (C)   Public utility installations;
   (D)   Accessory uses and structures incidental to permitted uses;
   (E)   Temporary uses as prescribed in §
14.1;
   (F)   Wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the provisions of §
14.5;
   (G)   Medical marijuana dispensaries, subject to the provisions of §
14.9; and
   (H)   Medical marijuana off-site cultivation and infusion facilities,
subject to the provisions of §
14.9.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.3-3  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS: PC ZONE.
   The following requirements shall apply to all PC zoned areas.
   (A)   An application for a zone change to permit the establishment of a PC
Zone shall include and be accompanied by a development plan for the entire
property.
   (B)   An application for a zone change to establish a PC Zone must be for a
parcel or parcels of land under control of the person or corporation proposing
the development.
   (C)   The area contained within a proposed PC Zone shall not be less than
ten acres.
   (D)   A conditional use permit may be required for any land use designation
on the development plan.
   (E)   If ambiguity exists as to the specific dimensions or extent of any
designated area on the development plan, the specific boundaries shall be set
by the filing of a legal description and map of the parcel in question in
conjunction with the filing of a conditional use permit, tentative subdivision
or construction permits.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.3-4  PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE: PC ZONE.
   Prior to submitting an application for a PC Zone, the applicant should hold
preliminary consultations with town staff to obtain information and guidance
before entering into binding commitments or incurring substantial expense in
the preparation of plans, surveys and other data. Such preliminary
consultations should be relative to a preliminary development plan and other
material which expresses the relationship between the various land uses and the
development concepts to be employed.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.3-5  DEVELOPMENT PLAN: PC ZONE.
   The development plan of a proposed PC Zone should consist of maps, plans,
reports, schedules, development standards and schematic drawings and such other
documents deemed necessary by the Town Manager or designee in accordance with
the following requirements.
   (A)   The development plan shall be submitted in a form approved by the Town
Manager or designee.
   (B)   The development of sections or areas within the PC Zone may be
permitted, subject to one of the following or any combination thereof:
      (1)   The uses and requirements of any zone classifications established
by this code;
      (2)   The uses and standards of development set forth in the development
plan as approved by the Town Council;
      (3)   Approval of a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission
prior to development; and
      (4)   Approval of a tentative subdivision or parcel map.
   (C)   The development plan and any amendment thereto shall include the
following:
      (1)   The type and design of buildings or structures and the number of
dwelling units per gross acre proposed for each residential area;
      (2)   A statement of the standards of population density for the various
proposed residential land uses;
      (3)   The general location of school sites, recreational areas and other
public and semi-public sites and the approximate area of each; and
      (4)   The general location of all major, primary, secondary and local
collector streets.
   (D)   The development plan and any amendment thereto shall be accompanied by
the following:
      (1)   A general land use map setting forth the proposed uses of all
sections or areas within the subject property and the approximate acreage of
each;
      (2)   An accompanying text setting forth the land use regulations which
constitute the standards of development designed to govern those sections or
areas specified in the development plan. Such standards shall contain
definitions and information concerning requirements for building site coverage,
building heights, building setbacks, off-street parking, vehicular access,
signing, lighting, storage, screening and landscaping, and any other
information which the Town Manager or designee shall require to ensure
substantial compliance with the purpose of the PC Zone;
      (3)   A topographic map and conceptual grading plan of the property;
      (4)   A preliminary report and overall plan describing proposed
provisions for storm drainage, sewage disposal, water supply and such other
public improvements and utilities as the Town Manager or designee may require;
and
      (5)   A written statement of standards as they relate to the allocation
of land within the development plan to all proposed types of land uses.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.3-6  ADOPTION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN: PC ZONE.
   (A)   The development plan and supporting statements and documents submitted
with the application for a planned community shall be approved and adopted by
the Town Council and included in the ordinance establishing the PC Zone.
   (B)   All development within the PC Zone shall comply with the development
plan as approved and adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.3-7  AMENDMENTS TO THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: PC ZONE.
   Any amendments to the development plans shall be accomplished in the same
manner as an amendment to the zoning regulations as prescribed in §
20.4.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.3-8  APPLICATION FOR CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT DEVELOPMENT: PC ZONE.
   A conditional use permit required for the development of any portion or area
of a PC Zone shall be filed in accordance with §
20.3 (Conditional Uses) and shall include the following documents and
materials:
   (A)   A map showing the location of the project in relation to the approved
development plan;
   (B)   A boundary survey of the property; a tentative subdivision map may be
substituted if the applicant proposes to subdivide the property;
   (C)   A topographic map of the property and the preliminary proposed
finished grade shown in contour intervals of not to exceed two feet;
   (D)   Location, grades, widths and types of improvements proposed for all
streets and general plan of water, sewer and drainage systems;
   (E)   Preliminary concept or design drawings indicating proposed walkways,
driveways or service areas;
   (F)   Location and number of residential units, if any, for each proposed
structure;
   (G)   Location and design of automobile parking areas;
   (H)   Preliminary landscaping concept plan;
   (I)   Location of public or quasi-public buildings or areas, including, but
not limited to, schools, recreation facilities, parking and service areas if
any;
   (J)   Preliminary elevations of structures and a written description
indicating architectural theme or type of development;
   (K)   Irrevocable offers to dedicate those areas shown on the plan as public
property;
   (L)   (1)   The proposed means for assuring continuing existence,
maintenance, and operation of the various common elements and facilities. If a
community association or similar governing structure is to be established, a
copy of the covenants, conditions and restrictions (CC&Rs) shall be made a part
of the record.
      (2)   If the Town Council deems it necessary, upon advice of the Town
Attorney, the town shall be a party to such CC&Rs in order to ensure their
continuance and enforceability.
   (M)   Such other information as may be required by town staff to enable a
complete analysis and appraisal of the planned development.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.3-9  BUILDING PERMITS: PC ZONE.
   A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be obtained prior
to the construction, reconstruction, alteration or change in use of any
building or other structure.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.4  PS - PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC ZONE.
§ 13.4-1  PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives prescribed in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the PS, Public and Semi-Public Zone is included in the
zoning regulations to permit adequate identification of areas reserved and
developed for public uses other than street rights-of-way, to provide for
expansion of their operations or change in use and to identify and preserve
areas of historic and community significance for the enjoyment of future
generations.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.4-2  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES: PS ZONE.
   The following uses shall be permitted where the symbol “P” appears and shall
be conditional uses where the symbol “C” appears opposite the use.
   (A)   Agricultural uses:
 
Farms or ranches for orchards, tree crops, field crops, truck gardening,
berry and bush crops, flower gardening and growing of nursery plants. The P
sale of products raised on the premises shall be permitted
Keeping of animals, except as prescribed herein; dairies and feeding lots C
Raising and grazing of horses, sheep, goats or cattle; provided that, no
animal shall be kept on a site of less than 1 acre. No more than 2 such   P
animals may be kept for each acre of land
 
   (B)   Agricultural experimental facilities: P;
   (C)   Animal shelters: C;
   (D)   Cemeteries, crematoriums and columbariums and related facilities: C;
   (E)   Maintenance yards operated by a public agency: C;
   (F)   Flood control facilities: C;
   (G)   Historical landmarks: P;
   (H)   Horse race tracks: C;
   (I)   Hospitals: C;
   (J)   Public buildings and grounds: P;
   (K)   Public or private non-profit schools and colleges: C;
   (L)   Public or private parks, golf courses, golf driving ranges, zoos, swim
clubs, and other recreation facilities: C;
   (M)   Public utility installations: C;
   (N)   Riding academies or commercial stables: C;
   (O)   Fairgrounds and accessory uses and entertainment: C;
   (P)   Accessory uses and structures incidental to permitted or conditional
uses: P;
   (Q)   Commercial uses incidental, accessory to or in conjunction with the
above permitted or conditional uses: P; and
   (R)   Wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the provisions of §
14.5: C.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.4-3  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: PS ZONE.
   The following regulations shall apply to the site of a permitted or
conditional use; these requirements are minimums unless otherwise noted:
 
Front yard       30 feet
Maximum coverage 40%
Rear yard        25 feet
 
 
Side yard  25 feet
Site area  1 acre
Site depth 160 feet
Site width 160 feet
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.4-4  SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING: PS ZONE.
   Screening and landscaping for a conditional use shall be specified in the
use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.4-5  OFF-STREET PARKING: PS ZONE.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided for each use as prescribed
in §
15 (Off-Street Parking) or as specified in a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.4-6  SIGNS: PS ZONE.
   No sign, or outdoor advertising structure, or display of any character shall
be permitted, except as prescribed in §
16 (Signs) or as authorized in a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.5  OS - OPEN SPACE AND CONSERVATION ZONE.
§ 13.5-1  PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives outlined in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the Open Space and Conservation Zone is intended
primarily for those areas of town where it is desirable and necessary to
provide permanent open spaces when such are necessary to safeguard the public
health, safety and general welfare and to provide for the location and
preservation of scenic areas and recreation areas. This zone classification is
intended to be applied primarily to lands held under public ownership.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.5-2  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES: OS ZONE.
   The following uses shall be permitted where the symbol “P” appears and shall
be conditional uses where the symbol “C” appears opposite the use.
   (A)   Agricultural uses:
 
Farms or ranches for orchards, tree crops, field crops, berry and bush crops, P
truck gardening, flower gardening and the growing of nursery plants
Keeping of animals, except as prescribed below                                C
Raising of horses, sheep, goats or cattle; provided that, no animal shall be
kept on a site of less than 1 acre. No more than 2 such animals may be kept   P
for each acre of land
The retail sale of products raised on the premises                            C
 
   (B)   Agricultural experimental facilities: P;
   (C)   Cemeteries, crematories, columbariums and related facilities: C;
   (D)   Flood control facilities: C;
   (E)   Forestry products and the removal thereof; not including processing
plants or lumber mills: P;
   (F)   Historical landmarks: P;
   (G)   Public or private parks, golf courses, golf driving ranges, zoos, swim
clubs and other outdoor recreation facilities: C;
   (H)   Public utility installation and facilities: C;
   (I)   Public or private non-commercial campgrounds and picnic areas: P;
   (J)   Accessory uses and structures incidental to permitted or conditional
uses: P; and
   (K)   Wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the provisions of §
14.5: C.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.5-3  SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING: OS ZONE.
   Screening and landscaping requirements for a conditional use shall be
specified in the use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.5-4  OFF-STREET PARKING: OS ZONE.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided for each use as prescribed
in §
15 (Off-Street Parking) or as specified in a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.5-5  SIGNS: OS ZONE.
   No sign, or outdoor advertising structure or display of any character, shall
be permitted, except as prescribed in §
16 (Signs) or as authorized in a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.6  FPM - FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT OVERLAY ZONE.
§ 13.6-1  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The Legislature of the state has, in A.R.S.
§§ 48-3601 through 48-3627, delegated the responsibility to each County Flood
Control District to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the Board of Directors
of the Flood Control District of Coconino County, Arizona, does ordain as
follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of Coconino County are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in areas of special flood hazards which increase flood heights and
velocities, and when inadequately anchored, cause damage in other areas. Uses
that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from flood
damage also contribute to the flood loss.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this code to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare, and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed:
      (1)   To protect human life and health;
      (2)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in areas of special flood hazard;
      (6)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the second use
and development of areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood
blight areas;
      (7)   To ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an
area of special flood hazard;
      (8)   To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazard
assume responsibility for their actions; and
      (9)   To maintain eligibility for disaster relief.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this code includes methods and provisions for:
      (1)   Restricting and prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health,
safety and property due to water or erosion hazards, or which result in
damaging increases in erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
      (2)   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities
which serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels
and natural protective barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
      (4)   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which
may increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which
will unnaturally divert floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards in
other areas.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.6-2  DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this code shall
be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to
give this code its most reasonable application.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use which is incidental and subordinate to the principal
use of the parcel of land on which it is located.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and, unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this code or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH or VO Zone on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance of flooding to an
average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined channel does not
exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may
be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community,
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. These areas
are designated as Zone A, AO, AH and A1-30 on the FIRM and other areas
determined by the criteria adopted by the Director of Water Resources.
   BACKFILL. The placement of fill material within a specified depression, hole
or excavation pit below the surrounding adjacent ground level as a means of
improving floodwater conveyance or to restore the land to the natural contours
existing prior to excavation.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building supporting foundation system.
   COMMUNITY. Any state or area or political subdivision thereof, or any Indian
tribe or authorized tribal organization, or authorized native organization
which has authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management regulations for
the area within its jurisdiction.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, and storage of
materials and equipment located within the area of special flood hazard.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, plant growth, fill,
excavation, buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain
which may impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EROSION. The process of the gradual wearing away of land masses. This peril
is not per se covered under the program. (See FLOOD-RELATED EROSION.)
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete slabs) is completed before the effective
date of the floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE. Any form of loan, grant, guaranty, insurance, payment,
rebate, subsidy, disaster assistance loan or grant, or any other form of direct
or indirect federal assistance, other than general or special revenue sharing
or formula grants made to states.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of floodwaters;
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source; and/or
      (3)   The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or
other body of water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in FLOODING, as defined in this definition.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). The official map on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or Federal Insurance Administration has
delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency of Federal Insurance Administration has delineated
the areas of flood hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or Federal InsuranceAdministration has delineated
both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable
to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration that includes flood profiles, the FIRM, the Flood Boundary and
Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOOD.)
   FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of Community Development who is
hereby authorized by the Floodplain Board  to administer and enforce the
provisions of this code.
   FLOODPLAIN BOARD. The Board of Directors of the Flood Control District of
Coconino County at such times as it is engaged in the enforcement of this code.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This code and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances (such as floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications or police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community, subject to “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a SYSTEM typically includes dams,
reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying works are those
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of
a lake or other body of water as a result of undermining caused by waves or
currents of water exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by
an unusually high water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a
severe storm, or by an unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an
abnormal tidal surge, or by some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event
which results in flooding.
   FLOOD-RELATED EROSION AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program
of corrective and preventive measures for reducing flood-related erosion
damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-
related erosion control works and floodplain management regulations.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated
height. Also referred to as REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area of the floodplain on either side of the regulatory
floodway where encroachment may be permitted.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level
for purposes of floodplain management. FREEBOARD tends tocompensate for the
many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights greater than the
height calculated for a selected size flood and floodway conditions, such as
wave action, bridge openings and the hydrological effect of urbanization of the
watershed.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   GOVERNING BODY. The local governing unit (i.e., county or municipality) that
is empowered to adopt and implement regulations to provide for the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.
   HARDSHIP. As related to §
13.6-8, Variances, of this code means the exceptional hardship that would
result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The governing body
requires that the hardship be exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the property
involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional.
Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal
preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule,
qualify as an exceptional hardship. All of these problems can be resolved
through other means without granting a variance, even if the alternative is
more expensive, or requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the
parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this code.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for sale or rent.
   MARKET VALUE. Determined by estimating the cost to replace the structure in
new condition and adjusting that cost figure by the amount of depreciation
which has accrued since the structure was constructed. The cost of replacement
of the structure shall be based on a square foot cost factor determined by
reference to a building cost estimating guide recognized by the building
construction industry. The amount of depreciation shall be determined by taking
into account the age and physical deterioration of the structure and functional
obsolescence as approved by the Floodplain Administrator, but shall not include
economic or other forms of external obsolescence. Use of replacement costs or
accrued depreciation factors different from those contained in recognized
building cost estimating guides may be considered only if such factors are
included in a report prepared by an independent professional appraiser and
supported by a written explanation of the differences.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   MUDSLIDE. (i.e., mudflow) A condition where there is a river, flow or
inundation of liquid mud down a hillside usually as a result of a dual
condition of loss of brush cover, and the subsequent accumulation of water on
the ground preceded by a period of unusually heavy or sustained rain. A
MUDSLIDE (i.e., mudflow) may occur as a distinct phenomenon while a landslide
is in progress, and will be recognized as such by the Administrator only if the
mudflow, and not the landslide, is the proximate cause of damage that occurs.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., mudflow) AREA MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall
program of corrective and preventive measures for reducing mudslide (i.e.,
mudflow) damage, including, but not limited to, emergency preparedness plans,
mudslide control works and floodplain management regulations.
   MUDSLIDE (i.e., mudflow) PRONE AREA. An area with land surfaces and slopes
of unconsolidated material where the history, geology and climate indicate a
potential for mudflow.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after 12-31-1974, whichever is later, and
includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain
management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of
construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by the Flood Control District and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation,
channelization, bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel,
refuse, fill, structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or
projecting into anywatercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the
direction and/or velocity of the flow of water, or due to its location, its
propensity to snare or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its
likelihood of being carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. (See BASE FLOOD.)
   PERSON. An individual or his or her agent, firm, partnership, association or
corporation, or agent of the aforementioned groups, or this state or its
agencies or political subdivisions.
   PROGRAM. The National Flood Insurance Program authorized by 42 U.S.C. §§
4001 through 4128.
   PROGRAM DEFICIENCY. A defect in a community’s floodplain management
regulations or administrative procedures that impairs effective implementation
of those floodplain management regulations or of the NFIP standards.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as a
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOOD ELEVATION. An elevation one foot above the base flood
elevation for a watercourse for which the base flood elevation has been
determined and shall be as determined by the criteria developed by the Director
of Water Resources for all other watercourses.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   REMEDY A VIOLATION. To bring the structure or other development into
compliance with state or local floodplain management regulations or, if this is
not possible, to reduce the impacts of its non- compliance. Ways that impacts
may be reduced include protecting the structure or other affected development
from flood damages, implementing the enforcement provision of this code or
otherwise deterring future similar violations or reducing federal financial
exposure with regard to the structure or other development.
   REPETITIVE LOSS STRUCTURE. A structure, covered by a contract for flood
insurance issued pursuant to the National Flood Insurance Act, that has
incurred flood-related damage on two occasions during any ten-year period
ending on the date of the event for which a second claim is made, in which the
cost of repairing the flood damage, on average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the
market value of the structure at the time of each such flood event.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SHEET FLOW AREA. See AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. An area having special flood or flood-related
erosion hazards, and shown on a FHBM or FIRM as Zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99 or
AH.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual START of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual START means
either the first placement ofpermanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual START
OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other
structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this code which permits
construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this code.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in this code is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, arroyo, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATERCOURSE MASTER PLAN. A hydraulic plan for a watercourse that examines
the cumulative impacts of existing development and future encroachment in the
floodplain and future development in the watershed on potential flood damages,
and establishes technical criteria for subsequent development so as to minimize
potential flood damages for all flood events up to and including the 100-year
flood.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.6-3  GENERAL PROVISIONS: FPM ZONE.
   (A)   Lands to which this code applies. This code shall apply to all areas
of special flood hazards withinthe boundaries of Coconino County, except those
incorporated cities and town which have adopted a resolution in accordance with
A.R.S. § 48-3610.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in a scientific and
engineering report entitled The Flood Insurance Study for Coconino County,
dated 11-16-1983, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs) and Flood
Boundary and Floodway Maps (FBFM), dated 11-16-1983 and all subsequent
amendments and/or revisions, are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be
a part of this code. This Flood Insurance Study (FIS) and attendant mapping is
the minimum area of applicability of this code and may be supplemented by
studies for other areas which allow implementation of this code and which are
recommended to the Floodplain Board by the Floodplain Administrator. The Board,
within its area of jurisdiction, shall delineate (or may by rule require
developers of land to delineate) for areas where development is on-going or
imminent, and thereafter as development becomes imminent, floodplains
consistent with the criteria developed by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency and the Director of Water Resources. The FIS, FIRMs and FBFMs are on
file at the Department of Community Development, 2500 N. Fort Valley Road,
Flagstaff.
   (C)   Compliance. All development of land, construction of residential,
commercial or industrial structures or future development, or uses of any kind
conducted on land areas located within the Floodplain Management Overlay Zone
shall be accomplished in complete conformance with the provisions of this
section and other applicable regulations. Proposed actions which may divert,
retard or obstruct floodwaters or in any way threaten public health, safety or
the general welfare must first be reviewed and approved by the County Engineer
and may be initiated only after a finding has been made that serious
detrimental impacts will not occur.
   (D)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This code is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this code and another ordinance, easement,
covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent restrictions shall prevail.
   (E)   Interpretation. In the interpretation and application of this code,
all provisions shall be:
      (1)   Considered as minimum requirements;
      (2)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
      (3)   Deemed neither to limit, nor repeal, any other powers granted under
state statutes.
   (F)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. The degree of flood protection
required by this code is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is
based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will
occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by human-made or
natural causes. This code does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This code shall not create liability on the part of Coconino
County, any officer or employee thereof, the state, the Federal Insurance
Administration or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this code or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
   (G)   Statutory exemptions.
      (1)   In accordance with A.R.S. § 48-3609.H, regulations herein adopted
for the FPM Zone shall not affect:
         (a)   Existing legal uses of property or the right to continuation of
such legal uses. However, if a non-conforming use of land, building or
structure is discontinued for 12 months or destroyed to the extent of 50% of
its value, as determined by a competent appraiser, any further use shall comply
with this code and regulations of Coconino County;
         (b)   Reasonable repair or alteration of property for the purposes for
which the property was legally used on 5-6-1987, or the effective date of any
regulations affecting such property; except that, any alteration, addition or
repair to a non-conforming building or structure which would result in
increasing its flood damage potential by 50% or more shall be either
floodproofed or elevated to or above the regulatory flood elevation;
         (c)   Reasonable repair of structures constructed with the written
authorization required by A.R.S. § 48-3613; and
         (d)   Facilities constructed or installed pursuant to a certificate of
environmental compatibility issued pursuant to A.R.S. Title 40, Ch. 2, Art.
6.2.
      (2)   In accordance with A.R.S. § 48-3613, written authorization shall
not be required, nor shall the Floodplain Board prohibit:
         (a)   The construction of bridges, culverts, dikes and other
structures necessary to the construction of public highways, roads and streets
intersecting or crossing a watercourse;
         (b)   The construction of storage dams for watering livestock or
wildlife, structures on banks of a watercourse to prevent erosion of or damage
to adjoining land if the structure will not divert, retard or obstruct the
natural channel of the watercourse or dams for the conservation of floodwaters
as permitted by A.R.S. Title 45, Ch. 21;
         (c)   Construction of tailing dams and waste disposal areas for use in
connection with mining and metallurgical operations. This division (G)(2)(c)
does not exempt those sand and gravel operations which will divert, retard or
obstruct the flow of waters in any watercourse from complying with and
acquiring authorization from the Board pursuant to regulations adopted by the
Board under this section;
         (d)   Other construction if it is determined by the Board that written
authorization is unnecessary;
         (e)   Any flood control district, county, city, town, or other
political subdivision, from exercising powers granted to it under A.R.S. Title
48, Ch. 21, Art. 1;
         (f)   The construction of streams, waterways, lakes and other
auxiliary facilities in conjunction with development of public parks and
recreation facilities by a public agency or political subdivision; and
         (g)   The construction and erection of poles, towers, foundations,
support structures, guy wires and other facilities related to power
transmission as constructed by any utility whether a public service corporation
or a political subdivision.
      (3)   Before any construction authorized by division (G)(2) above may
begin, the responsible person must submit plans for the construction to the
Floodplain Board for review and comment.
      (4)   In addition to other penalties or remedies otherwise provided by
law, this state, a political subdivision or a person who may be damaged or has
been damaged as a result of the unauthorized diversion, retardation or
obstruction of a watercourse has the right to commence, maintain and prosecute
any appropriate action or pursue any remedy to enjoin, abate or otherwise
prevent any person from violating or continuing to violate this section or
regulations adopted pursuant to A.R.S. Title 45, Ch. 10, Art. 4. If a person is
found to be in violation of this section, the court shall require the violator
to either comply with this section if authorized by the board or remove the
obstruction and restore the watercourse to its original state. The court may
also award such monetary damages as are appropriate to the injured parties
resulting from the violation, including reasonable costs and attorney fees.
   (H)   Declaration of public nuisance. Every new structure, building, fill,
excavation or development located or maintained within any area of special
flood hazard after 8-8-1973 in violation of this code is a public nuisance per
se and may be abated, prevented or restrained by action of this political
subdivision.
   (I)   Abatement of violations. Within 30 days of discovery of a violation of
this code, the Floodplain Administrator shall submit a report to the Floodplain
Board which shall include all information available to the Floodplain
Administrator which is pertinent to said violation. Within 30 days of receipt
of this report, the Floodplain Board shall either:
      (1)   Take any necessary action to effect the abatement of such
violation;
      (2)   Issue a variance to this code in accordance with the provisions of
§
13.6-8 herein;
      (3)   Order the owner of the property upon which the violation exists to
provide whatever additional information may be required for their
determination. Such information must be provided to the Floodplain
Administrator within 30 days of such order, and he or she shall submit an
amended report to the Floodplain Board within 20 days. At their next regularly
scheduled public meeting, the Floodplain Board shall either order the abatement
of said violation or they shall grant a variance in accordance with the
provisions herein established; or
      (4)   Submit to the Administrator of the Federal Insurance Administration
a declaration for denial of insurance, stating that the property is in
violation of a cited state or local law, regulation or ordinance, pursuant to §
1316 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 as amended.
   (J)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to divert, retard or obstruct the
flow of waters in any watercourse whenever it creates a hazard to life or
property without securing the written authorization of the Floodplain Board.
Where the watercourse is a delineated floodplain, it is unlawful to excavate or
build any structure affecting the flow of waters without securing written
authorization of the Floodplain Board.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a Class 2 misdemeanor.
   (K)   Severability. This Floodplain Management Overlay Zone and the various
parts thereof are hereby declared to be severable. Should any section of this §
13.6 be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the section as a whole, or any portion thereof
other than the section so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.6-4  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES: FPM ZONE.
   Within the floodplain overlay zone, the following uses shall be permitted
where the symbol “P” appears and shall be permitted, subject to the granting of
a conditional use permit where the symbol “C” appears.
   (A)   Agricultural uses.
 
Agricultural experimental facilities                                         P
Agricultural uses conducted for commercial purposes                          C
Agricultural uses wherein a building or structure is proposed within a       C
floodplain
Farms or ranches for orchards, field crops, tree crops, truck gardening,     P
berry and bush crops, flower gardening and the growing of nursery plants
Keeping of animals other than as prescribed herein                           C
Raising of horses, sheep, goats or cattle; provided that, no animal shall be
kept on a site of less than 1 acre and no more than 2 such animals may be    P
kept for each acre of land
 
   (B)   Other uses.
 
Dredging and filling, subject to the approval of the County Engineer on
federal designated waterways, such operations also shall be subject to the P
approval of the Army Corps of Engineers
Flood control facilities (subject to the conditions as outlined in §      P
13.6-3(E))
Parking lots                                                               P
 
 
Parks and open recreational facilities                                       P
All other uses permitted in the underlying zone with which the FPM Zone is
combined, except that single-family residences in the G, AR, RR and RS Zones C
shall be permitted, subject to compliance with these regulations
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.6-5  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Establishment of development permit. A development permit shall be
obtained before construction or development, including the placement of
manufactured homes, begins within any area of special flood hazard established
in §
13.6-3. Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the Floodplain Administrator and may include, but not be limited to: plans
in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevation of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials and drainage facilities; and the location of the
foregoing. Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all structures provided by a certified
professional engineer or registered land surveyor; in Zone AO, elevation of
existing highest adjacent natural grade and proposed elevation of lowest floor
of all structures;
      (2)   Proposed elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure will be floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any non-residential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
13.6-6(A)(3)(c); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (B)   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator. The Director of the
Department of Community Development is hereby appointed to administer,
implement and enforce this code by granting or denying development permits in
accordance with its provisions.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator. Duties of
the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Review all development permits to determine that:
         (a)   The permit requirements of this code have been satisfied;
         (b)   All other required state and federal permits have been obtained;
         (c)   The site is reasonably safe from flooding; and
         (d)   The proposed development does not adversely affect the carrying
capacity of areas where base flood elevations have been determined, but a
floodway has not been designated. For purposes of this code, ADVERSELY AFFECTS
means that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, when combined
with all other existing and anticipated development, will increase the water
surface elevation of the base flood more than one foot at any point.
      (2)   Use of other base flood data. When base flood elevation data has
not been provided in accordance with §
13.6-3, for example in A Zones for which detailed studies have not been done,
or areas subject to flooding which have not been designated by FEMA on FIRMs,
the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any
base flood elevation data available from a federal, state or other source, in
order to administer §
13.6-6. The Floodplain Administrator may require that a hydrologic study which
determines base flood elevation be prepared by a professional engineer and be
submitted by the property owner prior to the submission of a development or
building permit application. Any such information shall be consistent with the
requirements of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and the Director of
Water Resources and shall be submitted to the Floodplain Board for adoption;
      (3)   Obtain and maintain for public inspection and make available as
needed for flood insurance policies or effecting increased cost of construction
coverage for repetitive loss structures:
         (a)   The certified elevation required in §
13.6-6(A)(3)(a);
         (b)   The certification required in §
13.6-6(A)(3)(b);
         (c)   The floodproofing certification required in §
13.6-6(A)(3)(c);
         (d)   The certified elevation required in §
13.6-7; and
         (e)   Permit records for repair of flood-related damage to structures
on a cumulative basis over the life of the structure.
      (4)   (a)   Whenever a watercourse is to be altered or relocated:
            1.   Notify adjacent communities and the Arizona Department of
Water Resources prior to such alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Insurance Administration
through appropriate notification means; and
            2.   Require that the flood-carrying capacity of the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse is maintained.
         (b)   Prior to the alteration of any watercourse, the County Engineer
shall review and revise as necessary all plans for proposed stream
modifications.
      (5)   Within 120 days after completion of construction of any flood
control protective works which change the rate of flow during the flood or the
configuration of the floodplain upstream or downstream from or adjacent to the
project, the person or agency responsible for installation of the project shall
provide to the governing bodies of all jurisdictions affected by the project a
new delineation of all floodplains affected by the project. The new delineation
shall be done according to the criteria adopted by the Director of Water
Resources;
      (6)   Advise in writing and provide a copy of any development plan, to
any city or town which has assumed jurisdiction over its floodplains in
accordance with A.R.S. § 48-3610, of any application for a floodplain use
permit or variance to develop land in a floodplain or floodway within one mile
of the corporate limits of such city or town. The District shall also advise
such city or town in writing and provide a copy of any development plan of any
major development proposed within a floodplain or floodway which could affect
floodplains, floodways or watercourses within such city’s or town’s area of
jurisdiction. Written notice and a copy of the plan of development shall be
sent to such city or town no later than three working days after having been
received by the District;
      (7)   Make interpretations where needed, as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions). The person contesting the location of the boundary shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to appeal the interpretation as provided in §
13.6-8;
      (8)   Take actions on violations of this code as required in §
13.6-3(I)  herein; and
      (9)   Notify the Administrator and Director of Water Resources of
acquisition by means of annexation, incorporation or otherwise, of additional
areas of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.6-6  PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   Standards of construction. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following standards are required.
      (1)   Anchoring.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
         (b)   All manufactured homes shall meet the anchoring standards of
division (E) below.
      (2)   Construction materials and methods.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
         (c)   All new construction, substantial improvement and other proposed
new development shall be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
         (d)   Require, within Zones AH or AO, that adequate drainage paths
around structures on slopes guide floodwaters around and away from proposed or
existing structures.
      (3)   Elevation and floodproofing.
         (a)   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure
shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the
regulatory flood elevation. Non-residential structures may meet the standards
of division (A)(3)(c) below. Upon the completion of the structure, the
elevation of the lowest floor, including basement, shall be certified by a
registered professional engineer or registered land surveyor and provided to
the Floodplain Administrator.
         (b)   New construction and substantial improvement of any structure in
Zone AO shall have the lowest floor, including basement, higher than the
highest adjacent grade at least one foot higher than the depth number on the
FIRM, or at least two feet if no depth number is specified. Non-residential
structures may meet the standards in division (A)(3)(c) below. Upon completion
of the structure, a registered professional engineer or registered land
surveyor shall certify to the Floodplain Administrator that the elevation of
the structure meets this standard.
         (c)   Non-residential construction shall either be elevated in
conformance with divisions (A)(3)(a) and (A)(3)(b) above or together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities:
            1.   Be floodproofed so that below the regulatory flood level the
structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water;
            2.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
            3.   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or
architect that the standards of this division are satisfied. Such
certifications shall be provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
         (d)   Require, for all new construction and substantial improvements,
that fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are useable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement and which are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically
equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must be certified
by either a registered professional engineer or architect to meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria.
            1.   A minimum of two openings with a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
            2.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
            3.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or
other coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters.
         (e)   Manufactured homes shall meet the above standards and also the
standards in division (E) below.
   (B)   Standards for storage of materials and equipment.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, buoyant, flammable, explosive or could be injurious to human, animal
or plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other material or equipment may be allowed if not
subject to major damage by floods, and if firmly anchored to prevent flotation,
or if readily removable from the area within the time available after flood
warning.
   (C)   Standards for utilities.
      (1)   All new or replacement water supply and sanitary sewage systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the
system and discharge from systems into floodwaters.
      (2)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (3)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems for development
projects in identified floodplain areas shall meet all requirements of the
State and/or County Health Departments and shall be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters. On-site effluent disposal systems shall
not be installed wholly or partially within the designated regulatory floodway.
On-site waste disposal systems shall be located so as to avoid their impairment
during flood conditions as well as to preclude contamination from them during
flooding. Waste disposal systems shall not be installed in a regulatory
floodway.
   (D)   Standards for subdivisions.
      (1)   All preliminary subdivision proposals shall identify the special
flood hazard area and the elevation of the base flood.
      (2)   All final subdivision plans will provide the elevation(s) of
proposed structure(s) and pads. If the site is filled above the base flood, the
final lowest floor and pad elevation shall be certified by a registered
professional engineer or surveyor and provided to the Floodplain Administrator.
      (3)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
      (4)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage.
      (5)   All subdivisions shall provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   Standards for manufactured homes. All manufactured homes that are
placed or substantially improved shall:
      (1)   Be elevated so that the bottom of the structural frame or the
lowest point of any attached appliances, whichever is lower, is at or above the
regulatory flood elevation; and
      (2)   Be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to
resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not to be limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to
ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state and local
anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (F)   Standards for recreational vehicles. All recreational vehicles placed
on site will either:
      (1)   Be on site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, and be fully
licensed and ready for highway use. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions; or
      (2)   Meet the permit requirements of §
13.6-5 of this code and the elevation and anchoring requirements for
manufactured homes in division (E) above (or division (A)(3)(e) above).
   (G)   Floodways. Located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
13.6-3 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
      (1)   Prohibit encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development unless certification by a
registered professional engineer or architect is provided demonstrating that
encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge; and
      (2)   If division (G)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all other applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this section.
   (H)   Flood-related erosion-prone areas.
      (1)   The Floodplain Administrator shall require permits for proposed
construction and other development within all flood-related erosion-prone areas
as known to the community.
      (2)   Permit applications shall be reviewed to determine whether the
proposed site alterations and improvements will be reasonably safe from flood-
related erosion and will not cause flood-related erosion hazards or otherwise
aggravate the existing hazard.
      (3)   If a proposed development is found to be in the path of flood-
related erosion or would increase the erosion hazard, such improvements shall
be relocated or adequate protective measures shall be taken to avoid
aggravating the existing erosion hazard.
      (4)   (a)   Within Zone E on the Flood Insurance Rate Map, a setback is
required for all new development from the lake, bay, riverfront or other body
of water to create a safety buffer consisting of a natural vegetative or
contour strip.
         (b)   This buffer shall be designated according to the flood-related
erosion hazard and erosion rate, in relation to the anticipated “useful life”
of structures, and depending upon the geologic, hydrologic, topographic and
climatic characteristics of the land. The buffer may be used for suitable open
space purposes, such as for agricultural, forestry, outdoor recreation and
wildlife habitat areas, and for other activities using temporary and portable
structures only.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.6-7  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: FPM ZONE.
   (A)   All performance, development and maintenance standards, including
screening and landscaping, off-street parking and sign regulations, shall be as
set forth in the underlying zone with which the FPM Zone is combined.
   (B)   Such other performance, development and maintenance standards as may
be specified in a conditional use permit required for any use also shall be
applicable.
   (C)   In a floodplain where no floodway is identified, all structures,
except as authorized by §
13.6-3(C), shall be set back five feet from the bank(s) of the watercourse as
determined by the County Engineer.
   (D)   All development proposals for land areas greater than five acres,
wherein at least a portion of the subject property is located in an identified
floodplain area, shall clearly indicate the base flood elevation data as shown
on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMs).
   (E)   Flood retarding or protection structures such as walls or berms may be
constructed in identified floodplain areas if, in the opinion of the County
Engineer, such structures will ensure the protection of properties, buildings
and public safety. Such structures shall be constructed in accordance with
plans and specifications prepared by an engineer registered and licensed to
practice in the state and as approved by the County Engineer. Such structures
shall not create any detrimental impact or increase flood hazards on upstream
or downstream properties.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.6-8  VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Nature of variances.
      (1)   The variance criteria set forth in this section of the zoning code
are based on the general principle of zoning law that variances pertain to a
piece of property and are not personal in nature. A variance may be granted for
a parcel of property with physical characteristics so unusual that complying
with the requirements of this code would create an exceptional hardship to the
applicant or the surrounding property owners. The characteristics must be
unique to the property and not be shared by adjacent parcels. The unique
characteristic must pertain to the land itself, not to the structure, its
inhabitants or the property owners.
      (2)   It is the duty of Coconino County to help protect its citizens from
flooding. This need is so compelling and the implications of the cost of
insuring a structure built below the regulatory flood elevation are so serious
that variances from the flood elevation or from other requirements in the flood
ordinance are quite rare. The long-term goal of preventing and reducing flood
loss and damage can only be met if variances are strictly limited. Therefore,
the variance guidelines provided in this code are more detailed and contain
multiple provisions that must by met before a variance can be properly granted.
The criteria are designed to screen out those situations in which alternatives
other than a variance are more appropriate.
      (3)   Variances from the provisions of this section shall be issued only
upon consideration and review of technical documentation, prepared by a
registered engineer and acceptable to the Floodplain Administrator showing that
the objectives of flood hazard reduction would not be contradicted by the
granting of a variance and that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (B)   Appeal Board.
      (1)   Application procedures for a variance shall be on a form prescribed
by the Floodplain Administrator and shall be accompanied by a variance
application fee as set by the Board of Supervisors.
      (2)   The Floodplain Board of Coconino County shall hear and decide
appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this code.
      (3)   The Floodplain Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this code.
      (4)   In passing upon such applications, the Floodplain Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this code, and:
         (a)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
         (c)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   The importance of services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
         (e)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (g)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
         (h)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for that area;
         (i)   The safety of access to the property in time of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site; and
         (k)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water system, and streets and
bridges.
      (5)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (B)(4) above and the
purposes of this code, the Floodplain Board may attach such conditions to the
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of this
code.
      (6)   (a)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice over the signature of a county official that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property.
         (b)   Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all
variance actions as required in division (B)(7) below. Such notice will also
state that the land upon which the variance is granted shall be ineligible for
exchange of land pursuant to any flood relocation and land exchange program. A
copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain Board in the office of
the Coconino County Recorder and shall be recorded in a manner so that it
appears in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
      (7)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in its biennial report submitted to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
   (C)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level; providing, the procedures of §§
13.6-5 and 13.6-6 of this code have been fully considered. As the lot size
increases beyond one-half acre, the technical justification required for
issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the repair, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed in the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, upon a determination that the proposed
repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure’s continued
designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary
to preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
      (3)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant;
         (c)   A showing that the use cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. This includes
only facilities defined in §
13.6-2 of this code in the definition of “functionally dependent use”; and
         (d)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, or
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.7  RC - RESORT COMMERCIAL ZONE.
§ 13.7-1  PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives outlined in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the RC, Resort Commercial Zone is designed to achieve
the following purposes:
   (A)   To provide for the exclusive development of resort facilities in a
more creative and imaginative fashion than generally is possible under
conventional zoning; and
   (B)   To provide for a zone wherein various styles of residential uses
designed for occupancy by guests of limited duration can be established in
conjunction with service commercial and recreational uses in a coordinated,
comprehensive and harmonious design.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.7-2  USES PERMITTED: RC ZONE.
   (A)   Those uses designated on the development plan for the particular RC
Zone as approved by the Town Council including residential units of various
types, commercial uses designed to serve and provide for the convenience of
resort guests, and recreational facilities designed primarily for and limited
to use by guests of the resort. Mobile homes are not a permitted use in the RC
Zoning District;
   (B)   The continuation of all land uses which existed in the zone at the
time of adoption of the development plan. Existing land uses shall be either
incorporated as part of the development plan or shall be terminated in
accordance with a specific abatement schedule submitted and approved as part of
the development plan;
   (C)   Public utility installations;
   (D)   Accessory uses and structures incidental to permitted uses;
   (E)   Temporary uses as prescribed in §
14.1; and
   (F)   Wireless telecommunication facilities, subject to the provisions of §
14.5.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.7-3  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS: RC ZONE.
   The following requirements shall apply to all RC Zoned areas.
   (A)   An application for a zone change to permit the establishment of an RC
Zone shall include and be accompanied by a development plan for the entire
property.
   (B)   An application for a zone change to establish an RC Zone must be for a
parcel or parcels of land under the control of the person or corporation
proposing the development.
   (C)   The area proposed to be contained within an RC Zone shall be not less
than five acres.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.7-4  DEVELOPMENT PLAN: RC ZONE.
   The development plan of a proposed RC Zone should consist of maps, plans,
reports, schedules, development standards and schematic drawings and such other
documents deemed necessary by the Town Manager or designee in accordance with
the following requirements:
   (A)   The development plan submitted in a form approved by the Town Manager
or designee;
   (B)   Location of each existing and each proposed structure in the
development area, the use or uses to be contained therein, the number of
stories, the gross building and floor areas, approximate location of entrances
and loading points thereof;
   (C)   All streets, curb cuts, driving lanes, parking areas, loading areas,
public transportation points and illumination facilities for the same;
   (D)   All pedestrian walks, malls and open areas;
   (E)   Location and height of all walls, fences and screen planting,
including a plan for the landscaping of the development and the method by which
such landscaping is to be accomplished;
   (F)   Types of surfacing, such as paving, turf or gravel to be used at the
various locations;
   (G)   The location and type of proposed recreational facilities and utility
facilities;
   (H)   A preliminary report and plan describing proposed provisions for storm
drainage, sewage disposal, water supply and such other improvements and
utilities as the Town Manager or designee may require;
   (I)   A topographic map and conceptual grading plan of the subject property;
and
   (J)   A plan of the proposed signing program.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.7-5  ADOPTION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN: RC ZONE.
   The development plan and supporting statements and documents submitted with
the application for a resort commercial use shall be approved and adopted by
the Town Council and included in the ordinance establishing the RC Zone. All
development within the RC Zone shall comply substantially with the development
plan as approved and adopted by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.7-6  AMENDMENTS TO THE DEVELOPMENT PLAN: RC ZONE.
   Any amendments to the adopted development plan shall be accomplished in the
same manner as an amendment to the zoning regulations as prescribed in §
20.4.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.7-7  BUILDING PERMITS: RC ZONE.
   A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be obtained prior
to the construction, reconstruction, alteration or change in use of any
building or other structure.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.8  P - PARKING ZONE.
§ 13.8-1  PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives outlined in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the P, Parking Zone is intended to provide and identify
areas reserved and developed exclusively for public or private off-street
parking areas and to accommodate the establishment of parking districts which
provide an alternate means of meeting the off-street parking requirements for
multiple businesses in a defined area.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.8-2  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES: P ZONE.
   (A)   Public or private open parking lots including incidental control
gates, pay boxes or guard sheds shall be permitted as a matter of right.
   (B)   Public or private garages or other parking structures including
incidental appurtenances shall be permitted, subject to the granting of a
conditional use permit.
   (C)   Wireless telecommunication facilities, subject to the provisions of §
14.5 and the granting of a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.8-3  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: P ZONES.
   (A)   A minimum ten-foot wide front and street side setback area shall be
required in the P, Parking Zone. Said setback areas shall be landscaped, except
for necessary walks and drives.
   (B)   The design and configuration of the parking lot shall comply with the
site development standards prescribed in §
15.3.
   (C)   The design and configuration of the parking garage or structure shall
comply with the site development standards prescribed in §
15.3 or as specified in the conditional use permit.
   (D)   Wherever off-street parking lots abut property in any General,
Agricultural Residential, Rural Residential or Residential Zone, a masonry wall
six feet in height as measured from the highest adjacent grade and screen
landscaping shall be erected and maintained between the parking lot and said
zones.
   (E)   Wherever off-street parking lots are situated across the street from
property in any General, Agricultural Residential, Rural Residential or
Residential Zone, a masonry wall or berm three feet in height shall be erected
and maintained between the parking lot and the required front yard setback
area.
   (F)   All required landscaping shall consist predominantly of plant
materials and shall be permanently maintained in a neat and orderly condition.
   (G)   A parking garage or structure shall maintain a minimum setback of five
feet from any property in a General, Agricultural Residential, Rural
Residential or Residential Zone.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.8-4  SIGNS: P ZONES.
   No sign, outdoor advertising structure or display of any character shall be
permitted, except as prescribed in §
16 (Signs) or as authorized under a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.9  MR - MINERAL RESOURCE ZONE.
§ 13.9-1  PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives outlined in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the MR, Mineral Resource Zone is intended for
application to those areas of the town where it is desirable and necessary to
provide for the extraction of minerals and other natural resources.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.9-2  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES: MR ZONE.
   The following uses shall be permitted where the symbol “P” appears and shall
be permitted, subject to the granting of a conditional use permit where the
symbol “C” appears opposite the use.
   (A)   Agricultural uses:
 
Agricultural experimental facilities                                       C
Farms or ranches for orchards, tree crops, field crops, truck gardening,
berry and bush crops, flower gardening and growing of nursery plants. The  P
sale of products raised on the premises shall be permitted
Keeping of animals, except as prescribed in this section; dairies, feeding C
lots and ranches
Raising and grazing of horses, sheep, goats or cattle; provided that, no
animal shall be kept on a site of less than 1 acre. No more than 2 such    P
animals may be kept for each 1 acre of land
 
   (B)   Excavation, processing and stockpiling of minerals and the back-
filling or resultant excavations with inert materials: C;
   (C)   Concrete batching plants: C;
   (D)   Flood control facilities: C;
   (E)   Manufacture of block, brick, pipe, tile, cement or asphalt: C;
   (F)   Public or private parks, golf courses, golf driving ranges and other
similar open recreational facilities: P;
   (G)   Public utility installations: C;
   (H)   Rock crushing plants, aggregate washing, screening and drying
facilities and equipment: C;
   (I)   Accessory uses:
 
Offices and maintenance buildings or structures                            P
Residences for caretakers or watchpersons                                  P
Retail or wholesale commercial operations incidental or accessory to or in P
conjunction with permitted or conditional uses
Storage of materials or machinery used in conjunction with permitted or    P
conditional uses
Weigh stations                                                             P
 
   (J)   Wireless telecommunications facilities, subject to the provisions of §
14.5: C.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.9-3  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: MR ZONE.
   (A)   When a MR Zone abuts or is situated across the street from property in
any G, AR, RR, RS or RM Zone, a minimum building setback of 100 feet shall be
required from such Residential Zone; provided, however, that, the 20 feet of
said setback nearest the street or zone boundary line shall be landscaped and
the remainder may be used for off-street parking purposes as provided in §
15. A three-foot high wall, fence or berm shall be constructed in back of the
landscaped area along street setbacks; along all other lot lines adjacent to G,
AR, RR, RS or RM Zones, a six-foot high wall or fence as measured from the
highest adjacent grade and screen landscaping shall be erected and maintained.
   (B)   Additional property development standards such as, setbacks, lot
coverage requirements, height restrictions, screening and landscape
requirements may be imposed by the Commission or Town Council in their approval
of a conditional use permit.
   (C)   A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be obtained
prior to the construction, reconstruction, alteration or change in use of any
building or other structure.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.9-4  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: MR ZONE.
   (A)   Trash receptacles. Trash receptacles enclosed with solid masonry walls
and with gates shall be provided for each industrial use. Said receptacles
shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from any G, AR, RR, RS or RM Zone
boundary and shall be maintained in a neat and sanitary condition in order to
safeguard the health, safety and general welfare of adjacent properties,
subject to the approval of the Town Manager or designee.
   (B)   Mechanical equipment. All mechanical equipment, including heating and
air conditioning units, and trash receptacle areas shall be completely screened
from surrounding properties by use of a wall or fence or shall be enclosed
within a building.
   (C)   Electrical disturbance, heat and cold, glare. No use, except a
temporary construction operation, shall be permitted which creates changes in
temperature or direct glare, detectable by the human senses without the aid of
instruments, beyond the boundaries of the site. No use shall be permitted which
creates electrical disturbances that affect the operation of any equipment
beyond the boundaries of the site.
   (D)   Fire and explosive hazards. All storage of and activities involving
inflammable and explosive materials shall be provided with adequate safety and
firefighting devices to the specifications of the Tusayan Fire District. All
incineration is prohibited.
   (E)   Odor. No use shall be permitted which creates annoying odor in such
quantities as to be readily detectable beyond the boundaries of the site.
   (F)   Vibration. No use, except a temporary construction operation, shall be
permitted which generates inherent and recurrent ground vibration perceptible,
without instruments, at the boundary of the lot in which the use is located.
   (G)   Fencing. Outdoor storage areas shall be entirely fenced with a
material not less than six feet in height. Those areas visible from a public
street shall be adequately screened by masonry walls or a substitute acceptable
to the Town Manager or designee.
   (H)   Noise. Noise shall not be generated by any use to the point of
disturbing the peace and comfort of neighboring residences.
   (I)   Rehabilitation. Any pit resulting from depletion of the mineral
resource, or from abandoned or terminated mineral extraction operations shall
be filled to ground level and such pits or any depleted hillside areas shall be
treated in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Filling.
         (a)   On property where the mineral resource thereon is in fact
depleted by reason of extraction operations, or on property where the
production of any such resource is in fact abandoned or terminated, said
property shall be filled and landscaped to conform with the surrounding
properties.
         (b)   Said filling and landscaping treatment shall be commenced within
one month from the date of depletion, abandonment or termination of mineral
resource production on the property and diligently prosecuted to the completion
thereof.
      (2)   Grading.
         (a)   Slopes, overburden stockpiles, abandoned spoil piles and the
general premises shall be graded and smoothed so as to control erosion, prevent
the creation of potentially dangerous areas and present a neat and orderly
appearance.
         (b)   No hillside shall remain with an average grade steeper than one
foot horizontal to one foot vertical with a ten-foot wide terrace for not more
than each 50 feet of vertical height, unless a permanent steeper slope, without
terraces, is approved by the town staff.
      (3)   Water-filled areas.
         (a)   Upon termination of operations, all excavations made to a level
below the existing ground water table shall be filled with inert materials as
approved by the town staff to a level above the existing ground water table.
This requirement shall not apply, however, to any water-filled excavations
scheduled to be in an integral part of future development of the property.
         (b)   All such water-filled areas remaining shall be treated with
effective mosquito- control measures, as required by the County Health
Department.
   (J)   Hazardous and non-hazardous waste materials. No hazardous material
shall be disposed on the premises. All such materials shall be transported to a
landfill site officially designated by the state for hazardous materials
disposal. Only non-hazardous materials produced on the premises may be disposed
of on the premises; provided that, such disposal be contained in a manner so as
to prevent entry of such materials into the surface water system.
   (K)   Conformance testing. Whenever there is a question of conformance with
the performance standards of this section, the Town Manager or designee shall
require the property owner or operator to engage the services of a certified
testing firm. Copies of all such tests shall be furnished to the Town Manager.
   (L)   Solid waste disposal. All solid waste which is not disposed on-site
shall be transported to an authorized landfill for proper disposition.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.9-5  OFF-STREET PARKING: MR ZONE.
   Off-street parking facilities shall be provided for each use as prescribed
in §
15 (Off-Street Parking) or as specified in a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.9-6  SIGNS: MR ZONE.
   No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be permitted in a MR, except
as provided in §
16 (Signs).
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.10  DESIGN REVIEW.
§ 13.10-1  PURPOSES.
   In order to protect and enhance the visual quality of the town, the Town
Council requires the approval of a site plan for all development, except
single-family and two-family dwellings in all areas of the town to accomplish
the following purposes:
   (A)   To ensure that the development, buildings or structures will conserve
the values of adjacent properties and will not prove detrimental to the
character of buildings or uses already established in the area;
   (B)   To ensure that the proposed development will be properly related to
its site and to surrounding sites and structures, and to prevent the
construction of structures that would be inharmonious with their surroundings;
   (C)   To ensure that sites, projects and structures, subject to design
review are developed with due regard for the environmental qualities of the
natural terrain and landscape and that trees and shrubs are not
indiscriminately destroyed;
   (D)   To ensure that the design and exterior architecture of proposed
structures will not be so at variance with either the design or exterior
architecture of the structures already constructed or being constructed in the
immediate neighborhood as to cause a substantial depreciation of property
values in the neighborhood;
   (E)   To ensure that open spaces, parking areas and landscaping are designed
to enhance the visual and physical use of the property and to screen
deleterious uses; and
   (F)   To ensure that the proposed development complies with all of the
provisions of this code and the goals and objectives of the Tusayan Area Plan
or any amendment or element thereof.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.10-2  SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section shall be applicable to all
developments, and all signing for such uses, except single-family and two-
family dwellings. This exception does not apply to new or existing manufactured
home parks, but does apply to new or existing individual manufactured homes or
other permitted types of dwellings within manufactured home parks.
   (B)   (1)   All development or redevelopment described in division (A)
above, including buildings, structures, signs, landscaping, site layout and use
relationships, shall be first approved under the provisions of this section by
the Planning and Zoning Commission prior to the letting of permits for and/or
initiation of such development. Redevelopment shall include a substantial
change in appearance of the exterior of any structure, or a substantial change
in the appearance of any site. A substantial change would include, without
limitation, any of the following:
         (a)   More than 25% change in the facade of a building;
         (b)   Any change in the size of a building;
         (c)   A change of 250 square feet or more in site layout;
         (d)   A change in the color of a building on more than 5% of the
exterior;
         (e)   Any new sign or change in existing sign size or location;
         (f)   A change of 5% or more in the number of parking spaces;
         (g)   A change in landscaping, other than replacing dead/dying plants
or landscape maintenance, effecting 200 square feet or more; and
         (h)   Any new fencing/walls over three feet in height or change of 25%
or more to existing fencing/walls.
      (2)   Any change in the appearance of the exterior of any structure or
change in the appearance of any site that is not a substantial change shall be
subject to these design standards and review and approval by the Town Manager
or designee. A decision by the Town Manager or designee with regard to a non-
substantial change may be appealed to the Planning and Zoning Commission in the
manner of a substantial change.
   (C)   Approval of a site plan for development shall be based upon a finding
by the Commission that such development conforms to the applicable design
guidelines in this section and other provisions and requirements of this code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.10-3  DESIGN STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   This section includes guidelines for development and standards of
design to be incorporated into the site plan. Other sections of this code
include requirements specific to zoning districts that should also be shown on
a site plan for development.
   (B)   (1)   Architectural styles shall be respectful and compatible with the
unique location of this community as a gateway to the south rim of the Grand
Canyon. Architectural building forms should express sensitivity to this unique
environmental setting, while respecting the indigenous cultures. The goal is
for designs which contribute to the character and quality of the built
environment while in harmony with the natural environment.
      (2)   Examples of undesirable designs include whimsical architecture
which have no relationship to the surrounding natural, cultural or historical
environment. Modernist architecture which clashes with the natural environment
is also undesirable.
   (C)   Scale and mass of developments should be compatible with the natural
environment in which the community is located and not dominate over it.
Architectural features which serve to break up the massive appearance of a
structure should be utilized. These features can include variation in roof
forms, the use of dormers, covered walkways and patios. All features should be
in proportion to the building. All sides of a structure shall receive design
considerations. In some cases, it may be deemed more appropriate and desirable
to use smaller buildings which are clustered rather than a single massive
structure.
   (D)   External building materials should be predominantly those that fit the
natural landscape, such as native stone, logs, wood, broken faced block,
exposed aggregate concrete and stucco. The use of other materials such as
synthetic or reprocessed stone and wood may be considered, but will require
that information be provided regarding manufacturing specifications, product
samples and examples of where the product has previously been utilized.
   (E)   Earthtone colors that blend with local soils and vegetation are highly
desirable. Various shades of browns and tans, subtle greens, as well as
sandstone and limestone are encouraged. Bright colors such as oranges, limes,
aqua blue and white, which call undue attention to the buildings, are
discouraged. Color schemes should be coordinated to complement the
architectural style and mass of the buildings.
   (F)   Roofs must meet the color requirements of the building. Aluminum,
white or reflective roofs are not acceptable. Screening of mechanical equipment
is encouraged to maintain desirable aesthetic quality from street level or from
adjacent structures.
   (G)   The use of materials and colors to enhance the building design and
break up the monotony of massive structures is encouraged.
   (H)   Sufficient setbacks providing access to light, air, landscaping and
views shall be incorporated into site design. The 50-foot right-of-way flanking
Highway 64 shall be fully landscaped in conjunction with all new development
and redevelopment. If this area is abandoned by ADOT in the future, it shall
remain as a landscape buffer/transition zone between the highway and commercial
businesses. The use of this transition zone for meeting some parking
requirements may be appropriate, but preferably not within the 30 feet closest
to the highway.
   (I)   Vehicle and pedestrian ways shall be clearly delineated to prevent
congestion and conflicts. Service vehicle and delivery areas shall be located
such that they are screened from view and don’t interrupt the flow of traffic.
   (J)   Parking lots shall be designed to include adequate landscaping within
the periphery and interior to break up the impermeable surface coverage.
Methods for achieving this include the use of landscape islands within the
parking lot, clustering parking spaces into islands rather than long rows and
utilizing a variety of landscape materials, including a mix of vegetation types
and sizes, and decorative fencing.
   (K)   Where bus and RV traffic is anticipated, site design should take into
consideration the maneuverability constraints, parking and passenger unloading
needs associated with these vehicles.
   (L)   Orientation of buildings on the site should be “user-friendly”.
Components which will be considered for meeting this standard include entrances
which are well marked and located with a logical relationship to the parking
area, pedestrian walks from parking areas to businesses and outdoor areas for
the public to sit and rest.
   (M)   Signs with highly reflective surfaces or bright metal shall not be
permitted.
   (N)   The use of lighting as an attention-getting device which is not
related to an approved sign or for architectural illumination shall not be
permitted.
   (O)   Signs shall utilize and emphasize the same materials specified in
these design standards and guidelines for buildings. Signs and the color of
signs shall be compatible and consistent with the architectural style of the
building or portion thereof to which it relates.
   (P)   Outdoor light poles and fixtures should be compatible to the
architectural styles of the development.
   (Q)   Lighting should be designed to fit the development; poles should not
be higher or lighting more extensive than is necessary.
   (R)   (1)   Parking lot light standards should only be as high as required
to accomplish the necessary illumination while being in scale with the
surrounding landscape and structures.
      (2)   For example, light poles should be 25 to 30 feet in areas where
existing tree stands effectively camouflage the poles; lower standards would be
more appropriate in open areas.
   (S)   Light fixtures illuminating pedestrian walks or plazas should not
exceed 12 to 15 feet in height in order to be appropriately scaled to the
pedestrian and still out of reach of vandals.
   (T)   Low level bollard type light fixtures should be considered where they
can be effective without becoming too dominant in the landscape.
   (U)   The use of these guidelines in designing development plans shall not
be interpreted as discouraging or prohibiting designs which are environmentally
sensitive. Developments which incorporate energy conservation measures, water
reuse and material recycling are strongly encouraged.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.10-4  APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any proponent, agent or sponsor of development or redevelopment shall
first file a design review application for consideration by the Commission.
   (B)   Said application shall contain the following:
      (1)   A site plan, drawn to scale, showing the proposed location of
structures and other improvements including, where appropriate, driveways,
pedestrian walks, off-street parking areas, landscaped areas, fences and walls.
The site plan shall indicate the locations of off-street parking areas
including entrances and exits and the direction of traffic flow into and out of
off-street parking areas;
      (2)   A landscape plan, drawn to scale, showing the locations of existing
trees proposed to be removed and proposed to be retained on the site, the
location and design of landscaped areas and the varieties and sizes of plant
materials to be planted therein, and other landscape features including
sprinkler and irrigation systems;
      (3)   Architectural drawings or sketches, drawn to scale, including floor
plans in sufficient detail to permit computation of yard requirements and
showing all elevations (all sides of all buildings) of the proposed structures
as they will appear upon completion. All exterior surfacing materials and
colors shall be specified;
      (4)   Accurate scale drawings of all signs indicating their size, height,
material, color and illumination, if any;
      (5)   Grading and drainage plans; and
      (6)   Such other data as may be required to permit the Planning and
Zoning Commission to ensure that the purposes of this section are satisfied.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.10-5  ACTION BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   Within 45 days of the date the drawings are submitted, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall act on the proposal. Failure of the Commission to act
within 45 days shall be deemed approval of the drawings unless the applicant
shall consent to an extension of time.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.10-6  EFFECTIVE DATE OF DESIGN REVIEW DECISION.
   A decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission on a design review shall be
effective immediately upon receipt by the Town Manager of a signed agreement to
the conditions of approval; provided, however, that, the applicant may appeal
said decision to the Town Council within 15 days from the date of such
decision.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.10-7  APPEAL TO THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   A decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission on a Design Review may be
appealed to the Town Council by the applicant as prescribed in §
20.6-1 (Appeal of Decision of Planning and Zoning Commission).
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.10-8  ACTION BY TOWN COUNCIL ON APPEAL.
   At its next regular meeting following the filing of an appeal from a
decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission on a design review, the Town
Council shall approve, conditionally approve or disapprove the plans and
drawings or shall request the applicant to revise the plans and drawings.
Failure of the Council to act within the time period prescribed by this section
shall be deemed approval of the plans and drawings unless the applicant shall
consent to an extension of time.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.10-9  LAPSE OF DESIGN REVIEW APPROVAL.
   Design review approval shall lapse and shall be void one year following the
date upon which the plans and drawings were approved unless, prior to the
expiration of one year, a building permit is issued and construction is
commenced and diligently pursued toward completion.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.11  RMH - RESIDENTIAL AND MANUFACTURED HOME ZONE.
§ 13.11-1  PURPOSES.
   In addition to the objectives outlined in §
1 (Purpose and Scope), the RMH, Residential and Manufactured Home Zone is
intended to provide and identify residential areas and developments where
either conventionally constructed single-family residences or manufactured
homes may be located within the same subdivision and thereby provide for
opportunity for a greater range of housing styles for existing and future
residents.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.11-2  PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES: RMH ZONE.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted where the symbol “P” appears and
shall be permitted uses, subject to the granting of a conditional use permit
where the symbol “C” appears.
   (B)   All uses not listed are prohibited. For uses similar to those listed,
see §
20.1.
      (1)   Residential uses.
 
                                                   RMH Zone
Conventionally constructed single-family dwellings P
Manufactured or modular homes                      P
 
      (2)   Agricultural related uses.
 
                                          RMH Zone
All types of agriculture and horticulture P
Sale of products raised on the premises   P
Soil and water conservation projects      C
 
      (3)   Public and semi-public uses.
 RMH Zone
                                                                       RMH Zone
Churches, convents, monasteries and other religious institutions       C
Day care centers                                                       P
Educational institutions, public or private                            C
Hospitals                                                              C
Libraries and museums                                                  C
Preschools                                                             C
Public parks and recreational facilities                               P
Public utility and public service sub-stations, reservoirs, pumping    C
plants and similar installations, not including public utility offices
Recreational facilities such as rodeos, country clubs, tennis and swim
clubs, golf courses, with incidental limited commercial uses which are C
commonly associated with and directly related to the primary use
 
      (4)   Home occupations.
 
                                                   RMH Zone
Home occupations, subject to the provisions of §  P
14.2
 
      (5)   Accessory uses.
 
                                                                      RMH Zone
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a           C
conditional use
Accessory uses and structures located on the same site as a permitted P
use
 
      (6)   Temporary uses.
 
                                          RMH Zone
Model homes and subdivision sales offices C
Temporary uses as prescribed in §        P
14.1
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.11-3  PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS: RMH ZONE.
   (A)   General. The following property development standards shall apply to
all land and buildings, other than accessory buildings; except that, any lot
shown on an official subdivision map duly approved and recorded, or any lot for
which a bonafide deed was duly recorded in conformance with the zoning in
effect prior to the date of adoption of this code, may be used as a building
site; excepting therefrom any lot having an area of less than 4,000 square
feet. For access purposes, each building site shall have a minimum 30-foot wide
easement or right-of-way. A turnaround with a minimum radius of 25 feet shall
be provided at the end of each easement over 150 feet in length. No fences or
other obstructions shall be placed in the easement area except with written
permission of all other property owners served by the easement. For any parcel
of land created after 1-3-1995, an access road to the parcel must be provided
prior to the delivery of any combustible building materials. Said access road
must be constructed to an all weather standard.
   (B)   Special requirements.
      (1)   In the RMH Zone, front yard setbacks in subdivision developments
may be reduced by 25%. provided, the average of all such setbacks is not less
than the minimum required for the zone.
      (2)   In the RMH Zone, a building used for public or semi-public uses
shall maintain a minimum setback of 50 feet from any single-family uses.
      (3)   In the RMH Zone, as a precaution against unauthorized use, swimming
pools when located within 300 feet of a neighboring residence shall be enclosed
by a wall or fence not less than five feet in height in accordance with the
requirements of the town.
      (4)   A building permit, as required by the Building Code, shall be
obtained prior to the construction, reconstruction, alteration or change in use
of any building or other structure.
   (C)   General requirements.
      (1)   The following requirements are minimum unless otherwise noted:
Building height                          35 feet
Building site, net area in square feet   6,000
Density, maximum dwelling units per acre 6.0
Distance between buildings               10 feet
Front yard                               15 feet
Lot coverage, maximum                    40%
Lot depth                                100 feet
Lot width                                50 feet
Off-street parking                       2 spaces
Rear yard                                10 feet
Side yard                                5 feet
Side yard, street side                   10 feet
 
      (2)   Where a property is adjacent to the national forest, the required
side or rear yard minimum setback shall be 80% of the setback shown in division
(C)(1) above; except that, in no case shall the setback be less than five feet.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.11-4  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: RMH ZONE.
   (A)   Air conditioners, heating, cooling, ventilating equipment, swimming
pool pumps and heaters and all other mechanical devices shall be screened from
surrounding properties and streets and shall be so operated that they do not
disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring residents. Facilities for
the operation of alternate energy systems shall be exempted from the screening
requirements when such screening will clearly restrict the efficient operation
of such systems.
   (B)   Required front and street side yards shall be landscaped, except for
necessary walks, drives and fences. Said required front and street side yards
shall not be used for the parking or storage of any motor vehicle or vehicle
accessory such as camper shells, trailers, motor bikes or other wheeled
accessory or convenience; except that, operable motor vehicles may be parked
upon the driveway or access way to the garage or carport. One motor vehicle or
travel trailer for sale may be parked on or adjacent to the driveway, but not
elsewhere in the front or street side setback areas.
   (C)   All required landscaping shall be permanently maintained in a neat and
orderly condition.
   (D)   A maximum area of 200 square feet may be used on any one lot or parcel
for the outdoor storage of any used or secondhand materials, including, but not
limited to, lumber, auto parts, household appliances, pipe, drums, machinery or
furniture, unlicensed travel trailers or utility trailers; provided, however,
that, such outdoor storage shall located to the rear of the main dwelling and
be screened from surrounding properties and streets by a wall, non-transparent
fence, landscaping or structure. Any wall or fencing shall not exceed six feet
in height. Stored secondhand materials, vehicles, vehicle parts and the like
shall not be stacked so as to be visible above the required screening, or more
than six feet high. All permitted screened outdoor storage areas shall meet the
minimum required building setbacks as prescribed by this section. The
provisions of this division (D) shall not be so construed as to restrict the
storage of firewood maintained for fuel purposes and use by the occupant of the
premises.
   (E)   Where public or semi-public uses are established, a masonry wall six
feet in height as measured from the highest adjacent grade and screen
landscaping shall be erected and maintained between such uses and adjacent
residential uses or properties.
   (F)   Apparatus needed for the operation of active or passive solar energy
systems or other alternative energy systems, including, but not limited to,
overhangs, movable insulating walls and roofs, attached or detached solar
collectors, reflectors and piping shall be permitted for any use, subject to
the approval and specifications of the Town Manager or designee.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.11-5  SIGNS: RMH ZONE.
   No sign or outdoor advertising structure shall be permitted in any RMH Zone,
except as provided in §
16.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.11-6  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES: RMH ZONE.
   (A)   Attached structures. An accessory structure that is attached to a main
structure shall meet all of the requirements for location of the main
structure, except as provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   Canopies. Canopies or roofs attached to the main building, or
connecting the main building with a detached accessory building, may extend
into a required rear or interior side yard; provided that, portions of such
structure extending into the yard:
      (1)   Shall not exceed 15 feet in height nor project closer than five
feet to an interior side or rear lot line; and
      (2)   Shall be entirely open on at least three sides except for necessary
supporting columns; except that, a roof connecting a main building and an
accessory building shall be open on at least two sides.
   (C)   Detached structures.
      (1)   A detached structure shall meet the setback requirements of the
main building for the front and street side yard areas.
      (2)   Although not requiring a building permit, accessory structures that
have a floor area of 120 square feet or less on parcels one-half acre or
smaller shall meet the front and street side setbacks but may be within six
feet of the main dwelling and three feet from any interior side or rear
property line. Structures that are 64 square feet or less and eight feet or
less in height measured to the highest peak may have a zero-foot separation
from the main dwelling and a zero-foot interior side or rear setback as long as
the roof does not drain onto an adjacent property. If there is more than one
shed on a property, there must be at least a six-foot separation between sheds.
      (3)   A detached accessory structure which does not exceed 15 feet in
height and 600 square feet in area may be located within an interior side yard
or rear yard; provided, however, that, such structure shall not be located
closer than five feet to an interior side or rear lot line.
      (4)   A detached accessory structure which exceeds 15 feet in height, or
600 square feet in area, shall maintain the same side and rear setbacks for the
main dwelling.
      (5)   A detached structure (over 120 square feet) shall maintain a
minimum ten-foot separation from the main structure.
      (6)   For the purpose of administering this section, swimming pools shall
be considered to be a detached structure.
      (7)   The use of mobile homes, semi-trailers, railroad cars, shipping
containers, travel trailers, camper shells or similar units as accessory
structures is prohibited.
   (D)   Other structures.
      (1)   Steps, architectural features, such as eaves, awnings, chimneys,
stairways, wing walls or bay windows, may project not more than six feet into
any required front, street side or rear yard area, nor into any required side
yard area more than one-half of said required side yard. Greater projections
may be permitted when it is demonstrated that such additional projections are
needed for solar or alternate energy purposes, subject to the approval of the
Town Manager or designee.
      (2)   Balconies, porches or decks shall not encroach or project into any
required setback area.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, swimming pools shall be considered
to be a detached structure. Swimming pools including all accessory or
appurtenant structures and equipment shall maintain a minimum setback of five
feet from all property lines and buildings. As a precaution against
unauthorized use, swimming pools shall be enclosed by a wall or fence not less
than five feet in height in accordance with the requirements of the town.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 13.11-7  WALLS AND FENCES: RMH ZONE.
   (A)   In any required front or street side yard, an opaque or solid wall or
fence shall not exceed three feet in height. Non-opaque fences, which are at
least 50% transparent, may be established in any required front or street side
yard area to a maximum height of six feet.
   (B)   A wall or fence not more than six feet in height, as measured from the
highest adjacent grade, may be maintained along the interior side or rear lot
lines; provided that, such wall or fence does not extend into a required front
yard or street side yard. Extensions of walls or fences into required front or
street side yards may not exceed three feet in height. Stacking firewood along
a property line shall be considered a wall or fence and must meet height
limits.
   (C)   Walls or fences exceeding six feet in height may be permitted only
through the variance procedure set forth in §
20 and subject to the granting of a building permit.
   (D)   A wall or fence adjacent to a driveway providing vehicular access to
an abutting lot shall not exceed three feet in height within 15 feet of the
intersection of said driveway and the street right-of-way so as not to obstruct
visibility.
   (E)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a wall or fence
required by any law or regulation of the state or any agency thereof.
   (F)   Tires may not be used to construct walls, unless they are fully
encapsulated so as to prevent the accumulation of water inside the tires, and
subject to the granting of a building permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 14:  SPECIAL USES AND CONDITIONS
Section
   
14.0   General
   
14.1   Temporary uses
      
14.1-1   Permits and bonds
      
14.1-2   Performance standards
      
14.1-3   Appeal
      
14.1-4   Extension or modification of limitations
      
14.1-5   Condition of site following temporary uses
   
14.2   Home occupations
   
14.3   Cottage industries
   
14.4   Bed and breakfast establishments
   
14.5   Wireless telecommunication facilities
   
14.6   Group homes for the handicapped
   
14.7   Metal storage container boxes
   
14.8   Accessory wind energy systems
   
14.9   Medical marijuana dispensaries and off-site cultivation and infusion
facilities
§ 14.0  GENERAL.
   The provisions of this section shall apply to the uses and conditions
hereinafter enumerated. Where this section prescribes regulations more
restrictive than the zone in which a use or conditional use is permitted, the
provisions of this section shall apply.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.1  TEMPORARY USES.
   (A)   All time requirements are consecutive days per calendar year unless
specifically stated otherwise. Only one temporary use permit is to be issued
for a parcel at any one time. Permits shall not have overlapping time frames;
   (B)   (1)   Special events shall include such outdoor activities as:
         (a)   Transient amusement activities (carnivals, circuses);
         (b)   Tent revivals, seasonal festivals;
         (c)   Outdoor sales events (sidewalk, parking lot sales); and
         (d)   Outdoor art and craft shows, exhibits (art, craft, RV, boat).
      (2)   Events shall be limited to a maximum of five times per calendar
year not to exceed a maximum duration of five days per event.
   (C)   Christmas tree sales lots, subject to not more than 40 days of site
occupation and operation per year;
   (D)   Campaign offices, subject to not more than 70 continuous days of site
occupation and operation;
   (E)   Religious, patriotic, historic or similar displays or exhibits within
yards, parking areas or landscaped areas, subject to not more than 30 days of
display in any one year period for each exhibit;
   (F)   Contractor’s office and storage yards on the site of an active
construction project;
   (G)   Manufactured home residences or trailers for security purposes on the
site of an active construction site of major development projects, but for not
more than a total of 12 months;
   (H)   Stands for the sale of jewelry, furs, rugs and similar home-type
products, subject to not more than 30 days per year;
   (I)   Stands for the sale of produce, subject to not more than 30 days per
year. The provisions of this division (I) do not apply to the sale of produce
raised on the premises;
   (J)   Temporary retail food sales, subject to not more than 30 days per
year. This shall include stands for sales at one-day special events;
   (K)   Establishment of batch plants in conjunction with road construction
projects, subject to Planning and Zoning Commission approval;
   (L)   Temporary occupancy of a recreational vehicle or a travel trailer in
the G, AR, RR or MHP Zone for a period not to exceed 100 consecutive days per
calendar year; provided that, the lot or parcel is not already occupied by a
dwelling or other residential structure;
   (M)   Upon the issuance of a building permit, temporary occupancy of a
recreational vehicle or a travel trailer in the G, AR or RR Zone for a period
not to exceed six months; provided that, the lot or parcel is not already
occupied by a dwelling or other residential structure. The temporary use permit
may be renewed only if the building permit is issued for a dwelling, and if the
building permit remains active;
   (N)   Metal storage containers, refer to §
14.7;
   (O)   Temporary banner signs and community banner signs not permitted
elsewhere in this code, subject to Planning and Zoning Commission approval. The
maximum length of time for any such sign shall be 60 days. For guidance in the
determination of size, number of signs, height, location and other criteria,
the Commission shall refer to those parts of §
16 of this code that deal with banner signs; and
   (P)   Additional uses determined to be similar to the foregoing in the
manner prescribed in §
20.1, Determination as to Uses Not Listed, may be granted permits by either the
Town Manager or Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.1-1  PERMITS AND BONDS.
   (A)   All temporary uses shall be subject to the issuance of a temporary use
permit. Issuance may be through the action of the Town Manager or the Planning
and Zoning Commission. Upon application for a temporary use permit, written
authorization of the property owner for the property on which the temporary use
is proposed shall be provided. Said authorization shall include reference to
the requested use and acknowledgment of proposed time frame for operation of
said use.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a temporary use permit a cash bond shall be
deposited with the town. This deposit shall be used to defray the costs of
cleanup of the property by the town in the event the permittee fails to do
same.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.1-2  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. Approval of a temporary use permit application shall require
compliance with the following performance standards and any further conditions
deemed necessary by the Town Manager, his or her designee or Planning and
Zoning Commission in order to reduce possible detrimental effects to
surrounding developments and to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Noise. Noise shall not be generated by any use to the point of
disturbing the peace, quiet and comfort of neighboring residences or
businesses. The permit application shall clearly identify all of the potential
sources of excessive noise and the measures proposed by the applicant to
control excessive noise. The town may require additional measures to control
excessive noise including a curfew.
   (C)   Parking. Adequate parking shall be provided. All parking shall be
located on the sameproperty as the temporary use; public rights-of-way shall
not be used for parking.
   (D)   Location. No permit shall be issued for a use the location of which is
deemed to be potentially hazardous to the public. This includes, but is not
limited to, heavily congested and/or trafficked areas where the use may impede
or inconvenience the public. No use shall be permitted in a public right-of-
way.
   (E)   Sanitation. All requirements of the County Health Department and/or
other regulatory health authorities shall be met. Provisions for disposal of
solid waste shall be required for all uses.
   (F)   Signs. One freestanding or wall mounted sign not exceeding six square
feet in area and six feet in height is permitted. A diagram of the sign
indicating size, text, location on site is required. Color and materials shall
be reviewed by town staff. No off- site sign is permitted. Additional signing
may be permitted at the discretion of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (G)   Lighting. All lighting sources shall be aimed or shielded so that the
direct illumination shall be confined to the property boundaries of the light
source. The operation of searchlights or similar lighting sources is
prohibited.
   (H)   Other permits. Any required Health Department and Sheriff’s office
permits or licenses shall be obtained.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.1-3  APPEAL.
   If a permit is denied by the Town Manager, the applicant may appeal his or
her decision within 30 days to the Planning and Zoning Commission. The decision
of the Commission shall be final 15 days from the date of the decision unless
an appeal is filed. The Commission’s decision may be appealed within 15
calendar days to the Town Council by the applicant or any other person as
prescribed in §
20.6, Appeals: Town Council Review.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.1-4  EXTENSION OR MODIFICATION OF LIMITATIONS.
   Upon written application, the Town Manager may extend the time within which
temporary uses may be operated (up to a period of 90 days), or may modify the
limitations under which such uses may be conducted if the Town Manager
determines that such extension or modification is in accord with the purposes
of the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.1-5: CONDITION OF SITE FOLLOWING TEMPORARY USES.
   Each site occupied by a temporary use shall be left free of debris, litter
or any other evidence of the temporary use upon completion or removal of the
use, and shall thereafter be used only in accord with the provisions of the
zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.2  HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations, where permitted by the provisions of this code, shall be
subject to the approval of the Town Manager and shall comply with the following
regulations.
   (A)   (1)   A home occupation shall be conducted in a dwelling and shall be
clearly incidental to the use of the structure as a dwelling.
      (2)   In no way shall the appearance of the structure or the premises be
so altered or the conduct of the occupation within the structure be such that
the structure or premises may be reasonably recognized as serving a non-
residential use (either by color, materials or construction, lighting, signs,
sounds or noises, vibrations, display of equipment and the like).
      (3)   No one other than a resident of the dwelling shall be employed in
the conduct of a home occupation.
      (4)   No motor or mechanical equipment shall be permitted other than
normally incidental to the use.
      (5)   The use shall not generate pedestrian or vehicular traffic beyond
that normal to the district in which it is located.
      (6)   No storage of materials and/or supplies, including vehicles or
equipment used in the occupation, indoors or outdoors, shall be permitted which
will be hazardous to surrounding neighbors or detrimental to the residential
character of the neighborhood.
      (7)   No building or space outside of the main building shall be used for
home occupational purposes, except approved agricultural/horticultural related
activities.
      (8)   There shall be no use of utilities or community facilities beyond
that normal to the use of the property for residential purposes.
      (9)   A home occupation shall not create any radio or television
interference or noise audible beyond the boundaries of the site.
      (10)   No smoke, odor, liquid or solid waste shall be emitted.
      (11)   There shall be no outdoor storage or display of materials or
equipment maintained on the premises.
      (12)   The conduct of the home occupation shall not interfere with the
maintenance of the required off-street parking spaces on the property.
      (13)   The application shall be subject to review each year by the Town
Manager. Violation of any criteria listed above shall result in cancellation of
the home occupation permit.
   (B)   A decision of the Town Manager regarding the approval, disapproval or
conditions imposed may be appealed in writing to the Planning and Zoning
Commission within 15 days of notice of the decision.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall review newly issued home
occupation permits on a regular basis.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.3  COTTAGE INDUSTRIES.
   Cottage industries may be permitted subject to the granting of a conditional
use permit by the Planning and Zoning Commission and, if approved, shall comply
with the following restrictions.
   (A)   The entrepreneur of the cottage industry shall reside on the property.
   (B)   The number of persons employed in connection with the cottage industry
and who are not residents of the dwelling shall not exceed three.
   (C)   The cottage industry may be conducted either within the dwelling or an
accessory structure, or both; provided that, not more than 50% of the combined
floor area shall be used in the conduct of the cottage industry.
   (D)   One non-illuminated sign not exceeding six square feet in area and six
feet in height shall be permitted. Colors of sign background, sign lettering
and support structure shall be earth tones complementary to the natural
surroundings.
   (E)   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided according to the
provisions of §
15. There shall be a maximum of five parking spaces.
   (F)   Any outdoor storage shall be as permitted in the underlying zone or as
specified by the Commission. Outdoor storage shall be completely enclosed with
a solid six-foot high fence or wall.
   (G)   Parking of commercial vehicles shall be as permitted in the underlying
zone.
   (H)   Property for which a conditional use permit for a cottage industry is
approved shall front on and have direct access on a road accepted for
maintenance by the town or other governmental agency.
   (I)   Outdoor lighting shall conform to §
17.
   (J)   Direct sales of products is allowed if such sales are specifically
provided for in the use permit.
   (K)   The business shall not generate any noise, vibration, smoke, dust,
odor, heat, glare or electrical interference with radio or television reception
that would exceed that normally produced by a dwelling unit.
   (L)   The Commission may grant a conditional use permit for up to three
years. If all requirements of this section and of the use permit have been
consistently met, and if no complaints have been filed with the town, the use
permit may be renewed for up to five years.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.4  BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Bed and breakfast establishments, where permitted by the provisions of this
code through the issuance of a conditional use permit, shall be subject to the
approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission and shall comply with the
following regulations.
   (A)   All provisions of §
14.2(A) pertaining to home occupations shall be met.
   (B)   Applicants for a use permit shall be the property owners.
   (C)   No more than two bedrooms shall be used at any one time.
   (D)   No more than five boarders may be accommodated at any one time.
   (E)   The maximum duration of stay of any one guest shall be ten days.
   (F)   The boarders must enter through the main entrance of the dwelling to
get to their rooms, with no separate entrances allowed.
   (G)   All parking must be accommodated on site.
   (H)   The conditional use permit shall have a time limit of two years, after
which time the Town Manager and the Commission shall review compliance with the
conditions listed above. Compliance shall result in automatic renewal for
another two-year period, while violation shall result in suspension and
revocation according to §
20.3-14 of this code.
   (I)   For the use of two bedrooms, State and County Health Department
approval and permits are required.
   (J)   State business and sales tax licenses are also required.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.5  WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a process, rules
and standards for the construction of wireless telecommunication facilities to:
      (1)   To protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare;
      (2)   To provide guidelines for the siting and design of wireless
communication facilities;
      (3)   To protect the town’s environmental resources and to minimize
adverse impacts on visual resources;
      (4)   To ensure that wireless telecommunication facilities are compatible
with adjacent land uses;
      (5)   To minimize the number of towers by encouraging the joint use (co-
location) of facilities and by maximizing the use of existing towers and
structures;
      (6)   To allow competition in telecommunications service; and
      (7)   To enhance the ability to provide wireless telecommunication
services to town residents, businesses and visitors.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ANTENNA. Any exterior device for transmitting and receiving wireless
communication that is mounted on a tower, building or structure and that is
used to send and receive signals for cellular telephone, personal communication
service (PCS), mobile radio, paging, wireless Internet access and similar
communication services. ANTENNAS may include panels, microwave dishes,
satellite dishes, whip antennas or other devices that may be affixed to a
tower, pole or other structure.
      ANTENNA, ATTACHED. An antenna mounted on the exterior of an existing
building, silo, smokestack, water tower, utility or power pole, existing
wireless communication tower, or an alternative support structure.
      ANTENNA, CONCEALED (STEALTH). An antenna with a support structure that
screens or camouflages the presence of antennas and/or towers from public view
in a manner appropriate to the site’s context and surrounding environment.
Examples include human-made trees, flagpoles that do not exceed ten feet above
the maximum allowable building height for the zone, utility poles, light poles,
water tanks, steeples and architectural and facade features.
      CO-LOCATION. Use by two or more wireless communication providers on the
same tower or other alternative structure.
      HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the preexisting grade at the base of
the tower to the highest point of the tower including antennas.
      TOWER. A self-supporting structure such as a lattice tower or monopole, a
guyed tower, or a structure affixed to or mounted on an existing or newly
constructed building or other permanent structure, together with associated
equipment, designed to support one or more antenna.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES. Any combination of one or more
antennas, towers and/or structures with equipment used for the transmission of
wireless communication.
   (C)   Where allowed. Wireless telecommunication facilities require the
granting of a conditional use permit by the Planning and Zoning Commission
except as specified in division (H) below. Facilities are preferred in the
industrial (M-1-10,000, M-2-6,000 and MP) and commercial (CG-10,000, CH-10,000
and CN-2/A) zones, but are also permitted with a conditional use permit in the
AR, RR, G, PRD, PC, PS, OS, RC, P and MR zones. Facilities are not permitted in
the Residential (RS-6,000, RS-10,000 and the like, RM-10/A, RM-20/A, MHP and
RMH) Zones.
   (D)   Preferred facilities.
      (1)   Site location and development of wireless telecommunication
facilities shall preserve the existing character of the surrounding land uses
and buildings and the aesthetic visual character of the area. If technically
feasible, new facilities shall use the most preferred facility type. The order
of preference for new facilities is as follows (from most preferred to least
preferred):
         (a)   Co-location on an existing tower;
         (b)   Antennas attached to existing structures such as buildings,
light poles, utility poles;
         (c)   Concealed or camouflaged facilities;
         (d)   New sites on previously disturbed areas;
         (e)   New towers/facilities under 100 feet in Commercial or Industrial
Zones;
         (f)   New towers/facilities 100 feet to 175 feet in Commercial or
Industrial Zones;
         (g)   New towers/facilities under 100 feet in G, AR or RR Zones;
         (h)   New towers/facilities 100 feet to 199 feet in G Zones;
         (i)   New towers/facilities 100 feet to 150 feet in AR or RR Zones;
and
         (j)   New tower in other zones as described in division (C) above.
      (2)   New facilities shall use the most preferred facility type and
location where technically feasible, even if it results in an increase in the
number of facilities or a higher cost. A lesser-preferred facility type may be
permitted only if the applicant presents substantial evidence to show that it
will have a lesser visual impact or is more technically necessary than the use
of more preferred facilities.
   (E)   Disfavored facilities.
      (1)   Any site that is within a state or federal designated scenic
corridor such as Highway  64;
      (2)   Any site within a visual corridor or scenic vista, for example
along a ridgeline exposed to view from highway travelers or to residential
areas, along a public trail, in a park or recreation area, unless the facility
blends with the surrounding natural and human-made environment;
      (3)   Sites adjacent to or very close to residential areas; and
      (4)   Sites adjacent to or very close to sacred sites.
   (F)   Performance standards and design requirements.
      (1)   Height. New facilities shall not exceed 199 feet in height.
      (2)   Setbacks. The setback for towers is 105% of the tower height from
all property lines so that in case of collapse or failure the tower would be
contained on the property. Setbacks may be allowed to extend onto adjacent
properties if there are dedicated fall zone easements. The setbacks may be
reduced if a registered engineer can certify that in case of failure the tower
would be contained on site. In Commercial and Industrial Zones, the setbacks
may be reduced to 30% of the tower height if a registered engineer can prove
that, in case of failure, the tower would be contained on site. Guys and
accessory buildings must meet the setbacks of the underlying zoning
classification. Facilities that are located on new or replaced utility poles,
street lights or traffic signal poles are exempt from the setback requirements.
      (3)   Color and materials. Towers and attached antennas must be painted
or coated in a color that blends with the surrounding environment. Muted
colors, earthtones and subdued hues, such as gray, shall be used. All
associated structures such as equipment buildings, including the roofs, shall
be painted with earthtone colors.
      (4)   Fencing. New towers, other than flagpoles, utility poles or other
camouflaged facilities, shall be fenced to prevent trespass.
      (5)   Lighting. Lighting on any new tower is prohibited unless required
by the Federal Aviation Administration or by other applicable state or federal
requirements. Motion detector security lighting may be approved if the lights
are fully shielded. Any outdoor lighting requires a separate lighting permit.
      (6)   Landscaping. Perimeter landscaping may be required as a condition
of approval of the facility, depending on the location. Existing vegetation
shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
      (7)   Signs. No advertising is permitted anywhere upon or attached to the
facility. Signage islimited to small non-illuminated warning and identification
signs.
      (8)   Permits. A building permit is required for the construction of any
new tower and for accessory structures.
      (9)   Storage. Long-term vehicle storage and other outdoor storage are
prohibited.
      (10)   Term of use permit. The conditional use permit shall have a time
limit of no more than five years. Prior to the end of the five-year period, the
applicant and/or structure owner shall be responsible for submitting a new
application for renewal. The applicant shall demonstrate that changes in
technology have not eliminated the need for the facility as approved. Renewal
of a conditional use permit shall be based on compliance with the conditions of
approval.
   (G)   Application process. Prior to the submittal of a conditional use
permit application, the applicant shall schedule a pre-application conference
with town staff. Staff will review the ordinance requirements and submittal
requirements to ensure a complete application. In addition, for facilities
located within one-half mile of a residential area, the applicant shall hold a
neighborhood meeting prior to the submittal of an application. Staff will
attend the meeting and utilize the comments of neighbors in the analysis
presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission. The requirement for a
neighborhood meeting may be waived by the Town Manager. The application shall
include all of the requirements for any conditional use permit, including 15
copies of a detailed site plan and elevations, landscape and fencing plans and
the like, plus the following.
      (1)   Site plan. The site plan shall show existing improvements on the
property, adjacent roads and access roads, parking, fencing, lighting, existing
trees that will be retained and those that will be removed, setbacks from all
property lines and all proposed improvements including those on the ground.
      (2)   Elevation drawings. The drawings shall show the tower and proposed
attached antenna(s), as well as proposed structures on the ground. Materials
and colors shall be indicated and color samples shall be provided.
      (3)   Photo images. Photo simulations of the proposed facility from each
direction shall be provided showing the tower, all antennas, structures and
equipment facilities, demonstrating the true impact of the facility on the
surrounding visual environment. Town staff will assist in specifying
recommended vantage points and the requested number of photo simulations at the
pre-application conference.
      (4)   Communication plan. Each applicant shall provide a plan of its
facilities to the town prior to or in conjunction with any application for the
installation of a wireless telecommunication facility. The plan shall cover the
entire town extending five miles beyond the  town limits. The plan shall
include the following. These shall be in general terms and are not meant to
require submittal of confidential or proprietary information:
         (a)   All of the applicant’s existing wireless facilities by size,
type and coverage area;
         (b)   All presently anticipated future service areas, anticipated
dates of development, and types and heights of facilities desired for each of
the service areas;
         (c)   The various types of wireless telecommunication facilities used
by the applicant to furnish service and when they are used. This includes
drawings providing the sizes and shapes of the antennas and other equipment as
well as written materials describing their application;
         (d)   The applicant’s policy direction for the mitigation and/or
reduction of existing and proposed towers to avoid the proliferation of such
facilities;
         (e)   The applicant’s policy direction on the mitigation and/or
reduction of the negative visual impacts created by new towers, including any
proposals to conceal or disguise such facilities designed to be architecturally
and/or environmentally compatible with their surroundings;
         (f)   The applicant’s policy direction on co-location of antennas on
their own facilities, on facilities from other applicants or tower companies,
or on other structures that provide the verticality required for the antennas;
and
         (g)   Designation of an agent (contact person) of the applicant who is
authorized to receive communications and notices pursuant to this section.
      (5)   Written narrative. A written narrative shall be submitted with the
application explaining why the proposed site has been chosen, why the proposed
telecommunication facility is necessary, why the requested height was chosen,
ability of the facility to accommodate other providers, and any other
information requested at the pre-application conference.
      (6)   Existing structures. Evidence shall be submitted demonstrating that
no existing verticality can be utilized within the targeted search area,
defined generally as a one mile radius, to meet the applicant’s requirements.
      (7)   Property owner list. A typewritten list of the names and addresses
of all property owners, keyed to assessor’s parcel numbers, within 500 feet of
the outside boundaries of the subject property for towers up to 99 feet, and
within 1,000 feet for towers from 100 to 199 feet.
      (8)   Evidence of notification. For facilities within one quarter mile of
residential areas, defined as neighborhoods or subdivisions, evidence of
notification of property owners within one quarter mile, map indicating tower
site and residential area, and evidence of neighborhood meeting including sign-
in sheet and a description of how the design addresses the residents’ concerns.
   (H)   Exemptions. This code does not apply to HAM radio towers, which are
regulated elsewhere in the zoning code, or to satellite dishes for television
reception at individual single-family residences. In addition, a conditional
use permit is not required to co-locate additional antennas on already approved
towers unless it results in a substantial change in the approval, such as an
increase in tower height. A conditional use permit is not required for attached
antennas where the height of the structure the antenna is being attached to is
not increased. Examples would be antennas on existing utility or light poles,
water towers or on the fascia of existing buildings. A conditional use permit
is also not required for a stealth design that meets the height restriction of
the zone in which the tower is proposed to be located. Co-locations are subject
to the same conditions of approval as the original conditional use permit.
   (I)   Abandonment. The provisions of §
19, Non-Conforming Situations, shall apply to wireless telecommunications
facilities. Pursuant to §
19.11, a tower shall be considered abandoned and the use discontinued if it is
not utilized (i.e., there are no providers/antennas on the tower) for a
continuous period of 180 days.
   (J)   Obsolescence and removal. In addition to all other remedies available
to the Town of Tusayan, if a facility is abandoned pursuant to division (I)
above and §
19 of the zoning code, or if a facility becomes obsolete due to changing
technology, it shall be the responsibility of the tower owner and/or property
owner to remove the tower and to restore the site to its original condition
within 60 days. If the tower is not removed within this 60-day period, the town
may notify the tower owner that it will contract for removal at the cost of the
owner.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.6  GROUP HOMES FOR THE HANDICAPPED.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these regulations is to permit handicapped
persons to reside in single- family residential neighborhoods in compliance
with the Fair Housing Act, while preserving the residential character of the
neighborhood.
   (B)   Zoning confirmation. Prior to registration, a request for zoning
confirmation may be submitted to the Town Manager or designee to confirm that
the proposed location of the group home is permitted under this section.
   (C)   Standards. Group homes for the handicapped shall be located, developed
and operated in compliance with the following standards.
      (1)   Separation. The minimum separation between group homes shall be
1,200 feet, as measured from the closest property lines. No separation is
required when group homes are separated by a utility right-of-way of at least
300 feet in width, or by a freeway, arterial street, canal or railroad.
      (2)   Occupancy. The number of residents, excluding staff, shall not
exceed ten.
      (3)   Exterior appearance. There shall be no sign or other exterior
indication of a group home visible from a street.
      (4)   Compliance with all applicable building and fire safety
regulations. If a group home has one or more non-ambulatory residents, Building
Code requirements in addition to those applicable to group homes with no non-
ambulatory residents, shall apply.
      (5)   Licensing. Group homes shall comply with applicable licensing
requirements.
      (6)   Parking. Any parking for the group home shall be on site.
      (7)   Tenancy. No group home shall house any person whose tenancy would
constitute a direct threat to the health or safety of other individuals or
would result in substantial physical damage to the property of others.
   (D)   Additional requirements of state law. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
if the state has adopted laws or rules for the regulation of a specific type of
home, such as a group home for the developmentally disabled pursuant to A.R.S.
§ 36-582 or an assisted living home pursuant to A.R.S. Title 36, Ch. 4, then
any such state law or rule shall apply in addition to the conditions listed
herein and shall preempt any conflicting condition listed herein.
   (E)   Request for accommodation.
      (1)   If a group home owner believes any requirement of the zoning code
prevents the establishment of a group home in an economically viable manner,
the owner shall submit a written request for accommodation and the reasons why
the accommodation is required. The written request shall contain sufficient
facts to allow an individualized determination of the group home’s needs, to
address safety and welfare concerns and to assure compliance with this section.
Town staff shall review the written request and determine:
         (a)   Whether an accommodation should be made pursuant to the
requirements of the Fair Housing Act; and
         (b)   If so, the nature of the accommodation taking into consideration
the requirements of the Fair Housing Act, public safety and welfare concerns,
and the residential character of the neighborhood.
      (2)   The accommodation shall be made only to the extent necessary to
comply with the Fair Housing Act.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.7  METAL STORAGE CONTAINER BOXES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish the criteria, process,
rules and standards for the use of metal storage container boxes.
   (B)   METAL STORAGE CONTAINERS are defined as prefabricated, portable metal
containers used for storage of personal property.
   (C)   Temporary uses in the G, AR, RR and RS Zones.
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a building permit, two 160 square foot metal
storage containers may be established with a no-fee temporary use permit. A
temporary use permit is required prior to the storage containers being located
on site and may be issued for up to 18 months at a time. Temporary use permits
may be renewed so long as building permit remains in active status.
      (2)   For non-permit projects (emergency situations related to fire or
flood, or remodels), two 160 square foot metal storage containers may be
established with temporary use permit for up to nine months. Emergency related
projects are subject to a no fee permit. Temporary use permits may be renewed
for an additional nine-month period.
      (3)   Metal storage containers shall be located at least ten feet from
the front and street side property lines and shall meet side and rear setback
requirements for the zoning district in which they are located. Exceptions may
be granted by the Town Manager in an emergency situation for a maximum of 90
days.
      (4)   There shall be no utilities installed within the metal storage
container.
      (5)   Any deviations from these standards may be approved through the
issuance of a conditional use permit.
   (D)   Temporary uses in the CG, CH, M1 and M2 Zones.
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a building permit, metal storage containers
may be established with a temporary use permit. A no fee temporary use permit
is required prior to the storage container being located on site and may be
issued for up to 18 months at a time. Temporary use permits may be renewed so
long as building permit remains in active status.
      (2)   For non-permit projects metal storage containers may be established
with a temporary use permit for up to six months.
      (3)   Metal storage containers are required to meet all development
standards of the Zoning District in which they are located including setbacks,
building separation and structure height. Exceptions may be granted by the Town
Manager in an emergency situation for a maximum of 90 days.
      (4)   There shall be no utilities installed within the metal storage
container.
   (E)   Permanent uses in the G, AR, RR and RS Zones.
      (1)   One 160 square foot metal storage container may be established with
an approved building permit, subject to the following standards.
         (a)   There shall be no signage on the metal storage container.
         (b)   The only utilities permitted shall be electricity for lights and
outlets (i.e., there shall be no plumbing or mechanical). The addition of
electricity requires an electric permit.
         (c)   All containers shall be painted and maintained either the
primary structure color or a pre-approved earthtone color consistent with the
surrounding terrain prior to placement.
         (d)   Metal storage containers are required to meet all development
standards of the zoning district in which they are located including setbacks,
building separation and structure height.
         (e)   Use of the unit is for the storage of personal effects owned by
the property owner or tenant. There shall be no commercial use of the unit
(e.g., rental of the unit to people not residing on the property).
         (f)   The unit shall not be used for residential use or for the
keeping of animals.
         (g)   Nothing shall be stored on top of the unit.
      (2)   Any deviations from these standards may be approved through the
issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (3)   Metal storage containers existing prior to the adoption of this
code will have until 1-1-2009 to meet these requirements.
   (F)   Permanent uses in the CG and CH Zones.
      (1)   The equivalent of one 320 square foot metal storage container
(e.g., two eight-foot by 20- foot containers, or one eight-foot by 40-foot) may
be established with an approved building permit, subject to the following
standards.
         (a)   There shall be no signage on the metal storage containers.
         (b)   Electric utility may be permitted as part of the building
permit.
         (c)   All containers shall be painted and maintained either the
primary structure color or a pre- approved earthtone color consistent with the
surrounding terrain prior to placement.
         (d)   Metal storage containers are required to meet all development
standards of the zoning district in which they are located including setbacks.
      (2)   Any deviations from these standards may be approved through the
issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (3)   Metal storage containers existing prior to the adoption of this
code will have until 1-1-2009 to meet these requirements.
   (G)   Permanent uses in the M1 and M2 Zones.
      (1)   Metal storage containers are permitted with an approved building
permit, subject to the following standards.
         (a)   There shall be no signage on the metal storage containers.
         (b)   Electric utility may be permitted as part of the building
permit.
         (c)   All containers shall be painted and maintained either the
primary structure color or a pre-approved earthtone color consistent with the
surrounding terrain prior to placement.
         (d)   Metal storage containers are required to meet all development
standards of the zoning district in which they are located including setbacks.
      (2)   Any deviations from these standards may be approved through the
issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (3)   Metal storage containers existing prior to the adoption of this
code will have until 1-1-2009 to meet these requirements.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.8  ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a process, rules
and standards for the construction and operation of accessory wind energy
systems used primarily for on-site power consumption.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ACCESSORY WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A system designed as a secondary use to
existing buildings or facilities, wherein the power generated is used primarily
for on-site consumption. The system consists of a wind turbine and associated
controls and may include a tower.
      HUB HEIGHT. The distance measured from ground level to the center of the
turbine hub.
      TOTAL HEIGHT. The distance measured from ground level to the blade
extended at is highest point.
      WIND TURBINE. A device which converts the kinetic energy of the wind into
a useable form of electrical energy.
   (C)   Where allowed.
      (1)   Accessory wind energy systems shall be considered a permitted use
in the following zoned areas G, AR, RR, RS, RM, PC, PRD, PS, RC, CG, CH, MR,
MP, M1 and M2 Zones that are a minimum of one acre in size. Roof mounted
systems may be permitted in any of the above mentioned zoned areas that are a
minimum of one-half acre in size.
      (2)   Any deviation from the required standards of this code may be
approved through the issuance of a conditional use permit.
   (D)   Performance standards and design requirements.
      (1)   The requirements of this code shall apply to all accessory wind
energy systems proposed after the effective date of this code.
      (2)   All accessory wind energy systems shall conform to applicable
industry standards, including those of the American National Standards
institute.
      (3)   Minimum parcel size of one acre is required for the installation of
an accessory wind energy system.
      (4)   No more than two systems are permitted per parcel.
      (5)   Maximum height shall be that of the underlying zoning district
measured from preexisting natural grade to the center of the turbine hub for
horizontal and vertical systems.
      (6)   Setback requirements shall be 100% of the total height of the
accessory wind energy system from all property lines, access easements,
residential structures and public electric power or telephone lines. No part of
the wind system structure, including guy wire anchors, may extend into the
minimum setback area of the underlying zoning district or into any access or
utility easements.
      (7)   All portions of the energy system shall be a non-reflective, non-
obtrusive color, subject to the approval of the Town Manager. The appearance of
the turbines, towers and any other related components shall be maintained
throughout the life of the wind energy facility pursuant to industry standards.
      (8)   Systems shall not be used for displaying any advertising.
      (9)   Systems shall not be illuminated unless required by a state or
federal agency.
      (10)   The electrical collection system shall be placed underground
within the interior of each parcel. The collection system may be placed
overhead near sub-stations or points of interconnection to the electric grid.
All grid connected systems shall have a completed contractual agreement with
the local utility prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      (11)   Accessory wind energy systems shall be designed, installed and
operated so that noise generated by the system shall not exceed 50 decibels (50
dBA), as measured from the nearest property line, except during short-term
events including utility outages and severe wind storms.
      (12)   Building permits shall be obtained for any accessory wind energy
system prior to installation.
   (E)   Obsolescence and removal. If the accessory wind energy system remains
non-functional or inoperative for a continuous period of 120 days, the system
shall be deemed to be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The
owner shall remove the abandoned system at his, her or their expense after a
demolition permit has been obtained. Removal includes the entire structure,
including foundations to below natural grade and transmission equipment.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 14.9  MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES AND OFF-SITE CULTIVATION AND INFUSION
FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a process, rules
and standards for the construction, establishment and operation of medical
marijuana dispensaries, and off-site cultivation and infusion facilities,
pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-2806.01.
   (B)   Definitions.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA. All parts of any plant of the genus cannabis whether
growing or not, and the seeds of such plant that may be administered to treat
or alleviate a qualifying patient’s debilitating medical condition or symptoms
associated with the patient’s debilitating medical condition.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY. A not-for-profit entity defined in A.R.S. §
36-2801(11) that acquires, possesses, cultivates, manufactures, delivers,
transfers, transports, supplies, sells or dispenses marijuana or related
supplies and educational materials to qualifying patients or their designated
caregivers.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA INFUSION FACILITY. A facility that incorporates medical
marijuana by means of cooking, blending or incorporation into consumable/edible
goods.
      MEDICAL MARIJUANA OFF-SITE CULTIVATION LOCATION. A building, structure or
premises associated with, but separate from a medical marijuana dispensary
where cultivation, storage, infusion and/or manufacture of medical marijuana
products is accomplished.
   (C)   Where allowed.
      (1)   Medical marijuana dispensaries shall be considered a permitted use
in the CG-10,000 (Commercial General) and CH-10,000 (Commercial Heavy) Zones or
in the PC (Planned Community) Zone in areas designated for development, subject
to CG-10,000 and CH-10,000 uses and development standards, subject to the
following performance standards and design requirements.
      (2)   Medical marijuana off-site cultivation and infusion facilities
shall be considered permitted uses in the M-1-10,000 (Light Industrial), and M-
2-6,000 (Heavy Industrial) Zones or in the PC (Planned Community) Zone in areas
designated for development, subject to the M-1-10,000 and M-2-6,000 uses and
development standards, subject to the following performance standards and
design requirements. Off-site cultivation and infusion facilities shall be
considered conditional uses in the CH-10,000 (Commercial Heavy) Zone or in the
PC (Planned Community) Zone in areas designated for development, subject to CH-
10,000 uses and development standards.
   (D)   Performance standards and design requirements.
      (1)   Medical marijuana dispensaries shall be located in a permanent
building, and may not locate in a trailer, cargo container or motor vehicle.
      (2)   Medical marijuana dispensaries shall have a single secure entrance
and shall implement appropriate security measures to deter and prevent the
theft of marijuana and unauthorized entrance into areas containing marijuana
pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-2806(C).
      (3)   Medical marijuana dispensaries shall be a maximum of 2,500 gross
square feet.
      (4)   Medical marijuana dispensaries and cultivation/infusion facilities
shall not be located within 500 feet of a public or private preschool,
kindergarten, elementary, secondary or high school, place of worship or public
park existing before the date of application for the medical marijuana
dispensary or cultivation/infusion facility. This distance shall be measured in
a straight line from the exterior walls of the building or portion thereof in
which the business is conducted or proposed to be conducted to the property
line of the protected use.
      (5)   Medical marijuana dispensaries and cultivation/infusion facilities
shall not be located within 500 feet of another medical marijuana dispensary or
cultivation or infusion facility. This distance shall be measured in a straight
line between the exterior walls of the buildings or portions thereof in which
the businesses are conducted or proposed to be conducted.
      (6)   Any medical marijuana dispensaries and cultivation/infusion
facilities lawfully operating shall not be rendered in violation of these
provisions by the subsequent location of a public or private preschool,
kindergarten, elementary, secondary or high school, place of worship or public
park.
      (7)   Retail sales and dispensing of medical marijuana and related
products is prohibited at off-site medical marijuana cultivation and infusion
facilities.
      (8)   Operating hours of medical marijuana dispensaries are limited to 8:
00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
      (9)   Drive-through services are prohibited.
      (10)   There shall be no emission of dust, fumes, vapors, odors or
hazardous waste into the environment from any facility where medical marijuana
cultivation or infusion occurs.
      (11)   Marijuana remnants and byproducts shall be secured and properly
disposed of and shall not be placed within the facility’s exterior refuse
containers.
      (12)   Medical marijuana cultivation and infusion may occur within a
medical marijuana dispensary. Otherwise, a medical marijuana dispensary may
have one additional location where cultivation, infusion and production of
medical marijuana products occurs pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-2804(B)(1)(b)(ii).
   (E)   Permits required.
      (1)   Where medical marijuana dispensaries and cultivation/infusion
facilities are classified as a permitted use, an administrative permit shall be
obtained prior to establishment of the use. To obtain an administrative permit,
an applicant must comply with divisions (E)(3) through (E)(10) below.
      (2)   Where medical marijuana cultivation/infusion facilities are
classified as a conditional use, a conditional use permit shall be obtained
prior to establishment of the use. The standard conditional use permit
application procedures and requirements shall be met along with additional
requirements contained herein.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide the name and location of the medical
marijuana dispensary. For an off-site cultivation and/or infusion facility, the
applicant shall provide the name and location of the dispensary with which it
is associated.
      (4)   If the applicant is not the property owner, the application shall
include both the applicant’s and property owner’s signatures.
      (5)   The applicant shall provide a copy of their dispensary registration
certificate issued by ADHS pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-2804(B) and a copy of the
operating procedures adopted pursuant to A.R.S. § 36-2804(B)(1)(c) along with a
site plan, floor plan and security plan.
      (6)   If the dispensary and/or cultivation/ infusion facility is proposed
to be located in an existing building, the applicant shall obtain a building
permit for change of occupancy with plans prepared by a professional architect
registered in the state.
      (7)   A medical marijuana dispensary or infusion facility that
incorporates medical marijuana by means of cooking, blending or incorporation
into consumable/edible goods shall obtain applicable food service permits from
the County Health Department.
      (8)   If the measured distance is within 25 feet of the required limits
identified in divisions (D)(4) and (D)(5) above, a survey sealed by a
registered land surveyor may be required, at the discretion of the Town Manager
and at the applicant’s expense, to verify the required separation.
      (9)   Permit fees shall be as stipulated in the fee schedule adopted by
resolution of the Town Council in effect at the time of application.
      (10)   Permits may be denied if the applicant, in the reasonable opinion
of the Town Manager is failing to comply with any applicable state or local law
or regulation.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 15:  OFF-STREET PARKING
Section
   
15.0   Purposes
   
15.1   Basic requirements for off-street parking
   
15.2   Parking spaces required
   
15.3   Site development standards for off-street parking areas
§ 15.0  PURPOSES.
   In order to alleviate or to prevent traffic congestion and shortage of curb
spaces, off-street parking facilities shall be provided incidental to new uses
and major alterations and enlargements of existing uses. The number of parking
spaces prescribed in this section shall be in proportion to the need for such
facilities created by the particular type of use. Off-street parking is to be
laid out in a manner that will ensure its usefulness, protect the public safety
and, where appropriate, insulate surrounding land uses from its impact.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 15.1  BASIC REQUIREMENTS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street parking shall be provided for any new building constructed
and for any new use established; for any addition or enlargement of an existing
building or use; and for any change in the occupancy of any building or the
manner in which any use is conducted that would result in additional parking
spaces being required, subject to the provisions of this section.
   (B)   No existing use of land or structure shall be deemed to be non-
conforming solely because of the lack of off-street parking facilities
prescribed in this section; provided that, facilities being used for off-street
parking on the effective date of this zoning code shall not be reduced in
capacity to less than the minimum standards prescribed in this section.
   (C)   For additions or enlargements of existing buildings or uses, or any
change of occupancy or manner of operation that would increase the number of
parking spaces required, the additional parking shall be required only for such
addition, enlargement or change and not for the entire building or use;
provided that, no additional parking shall be required where the total number
of spaces prescribed for the addition, enlargement or change is less than 10%
of the number of spaces prescribed for the use as conducted prior to such
addition, enlargement or change.
   (D)   Parking required by this section for any building or use shall not be
considered as providing parking for any other building or use, except where a
joint parking facility serves more than one building or use or where the
Planning and Zoning Commission determines that overlapping parking requirements
will not conflict with each other.
   (E)   (1)   All off-street parking spaces and areas required by this section
shall be maintained for the duration of the use requiring such areas.
      (2)   Required parking spaces and areas shall not be used for the sale,
display or repair of motor vehicles or other goods and services.
   (F)   No use shall be required to provide more spaces than prescribed by
this section or prescribed by any conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 15.2  PARKING SPACES REQUIRED.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   In the CN Zone, off-street parking for a shopping center shall be
provided on the same site at a ratio of five spaces for each 1,000 square feet
of gross floor area.
      (2)   In all Residential Zones, for residential uses, off-street parking
shall be provided in accordance with §
10.2(C).
      (3)   In all other zones and for all other uses, off-street parking shall
be provided in accordance with the standards prescribed in §
15.2(B). The requirement for any use not specifically listed shall be
determined by the Town Manager or designee on the basis of the requirement for
similar uses.
      (4)   Where the application of the off-street parking requirements result
in a fractional number of spaces, a fraction of one-half or greater shall be
resolved to the next higher whole number.
      (5)   All required off-street parking spaces shall be located on the same
lot as the use to be served unless a joint parking facility or parking district
is established and approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Schedule of off-street parking requirements.
Use Minimum Off-Street Parking Required
Use                                    Minimum Off-Street Parking Required
Art gallery                            1 space for each 250 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Automobile, boat, camper or similar    1 space for each 500 square feet of
vehicle sales, display or rental uses  gross floor area, but not less than 5
                                       spaces
Automobile car wash                    Spaces or reservoir parking equal to 5
                                       times the capacity of the car wash
Bank, financial institution, public or 1 space for each 200 square feet of
private utility office                 gross floor area
Barber or beauty shop                  1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Bed and breakfast                      1 space for each guest room, plus 2
                                       spaces for permanent residents
Boarding or rooming house              1 space for each guest room or guest
                                       dwelling
Bowling alleys                         3 spaces for each alley
                                       1 space for each employee on largest
Camp                                   shift, plus 1 space for each camp
                                       vehicle normally parked on the premises
                                       plus 1 visitor space for each 10 campers
                                       1 space for each 3 seats in the main
Church, chapel or mortuary             assembly room; or 1 space for each 20
                                       square feet in the main assembly room
Cleaning or laundry use or similar     1 space for each 250 square feet of
personal service use                   gross floor area
 
Use Minimum Off-Street Parking Required
Use                                    Minimum Off-Street Parking Required
                                       1 space for each 3 seats in the main
Clubs or lodges                        assembly room; or 1 space for each 20
                                       square feet in the main assembly room
College or university, including       0.75 space for each full-time equivalent
auditoriums, stadiums and housing      student, less the number of spaces
facilities; vocational schools         provided for on-campus housing
                                       facilities according to this schedule
Commercial service uses, repair shops, 1 space for each 200 square feet of
garages, wholesale uses                gross floor area (including display)
                                       1 space for each 250 square feet of
                                       gross floor area or 1 space for each 4
Community center                       patrons to the maximum capacity, plus 1
                                       space for each employee on the largest
                                       shift
Contractor’s yard                    2 spaces, plus one space for each
                                       employee
Convalescent home                      1 space for each 3 patient beds
Convenience markets                    1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
                                       1 space for each 3 persons based on the
Country club, swim club or recreation  maximum anticipated capacity of all
use                                    facilities capable of simultaneous use
                                       as determined by the Town Manager
Day nursery or nursery school          1 space for each staff member, plus 1
                                       space for each 10 students
Dormitories and other student housing  2 spaces for each 3 guest rooms
                                       1 space for each 100 square feet of
Drive-in restaurants                   gross floor area, but not less than 10
                                       spaces for each such establishment
Elementary or junior high school       2 spaces for each teaching station
Fire station                           1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Food store, supermarket or similar use 1 space for each 150 square feet of
                                       gross floor area (including display)
Furniture or appliance stores          1 space for each 750 square feet of
                                       sales display area
                                       1 space for each 200 square feet in
Government buildings                   addition to the parking required for
                                       employees
High school, including auditoriums and 7 spaces for each teaching station
stadiums on site
Horse stable                           1 space for each employee plus 1 space
                                       for each 4 stalls
Hospital                               1 space for each 2 patient beds
Hotels and motels                      1 space for each guest room
                                       1 space for each employee, plus 1 space
Kennel                                 for each 1,000 square feet, but no less
                                       than 4 spaces
Manufacturing or industrial uses,      2 parking spaces for each 3 employees,
including office or other incidental   but in no event less than 2 spaces for
operations on the site                 each 1,000 square feet of gross floor
                                       area
Medical or dental office               5 spaces for each doctor
Mineral extraction operations          1 space for each employee on the maximum
                                       shift
Other business, technical service,     1 space for each 250 square feet of
administrative or professional office  gross floor area
or commercial building
 
Use Minimum Off-Street Parking Required
Use                                    Minimum Off-Street Parking Required
                                       5 spaces, plus additional space for each
Plant nursery, garden shop             1,000 square feet of sales or display
                                       area
                                       1 space for each employee, plus 1 space
Post office                            for each 500 square feet of gross floor
                                       area
                                       1 space for each employee, plus 1 space
Recycling center                       for each 500 square feet of gross floor
                                       area
Restaurant, cocktail lounge or similar 1 space for each 100 square feet of
use for sale or consumption of food or gross floor area, (including outdoor
beverage                               dining areas), but not less than 10
                                       spaces for each such establishment
Retail, general                        1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
                                       1 space for each 500 square feet of open
Retail, outdoor                        sales and display area, plus 1 space for
                                       each employee
                                       1 space for each 500 square feet of
Retail, showroom                       showroom/display area, plus 1 space for
                                       each employee; additional parking
                                       required for associated warehouse area
Self-service storage                   2 spaces, plus 1 space for each 100
                                       units
Service station                        5 spaces
Skating rinks                          1 space for each 3 seats; or 1 space for
                                       each 50 square feet of rink area
Theater or auditorium not on a school  1 space for each 3 seats in main
site                                   assembly room; or 1 space for each 20
                                       square feet in main assembly room
                                       2 parking spaces for each 3 employees,
                                       but in no event less than 1 space for
                                       each 2,000 square feet for the first
                                       20,000 square feet; 1 space for each
Warehouse and distribution industry    4,000 square feet of floor area of the
                                       remaining building area. If there is
                                       more than 1 shift, the number of
                                       employees on the largest shift may be
                                       used in determining parking requirements
 
   (C)   Tour bus parking. For hotels and motels with more than 60 guest rooms,
parking for up to four tour buses will be allowed in lieu of automobile parking
spaces at a ratio of one tour bus space for every 16 automobile parking spaces;
provided that, in no event shall the number of automobile parking spaces be
less than 75% of that otherwise required. Additional tour bus parking spaces
may be provided, but no additional credit will be given.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 15.3  SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Each off-street parking space shall consist of a rectangular area not
less than nine feet wide by 18 feet long, together with drives, aisles, turning
and maneuvering areas and having access at all times to a public street or
alley. All parallel parking stalls shall be a minimum of eight feet by 24 feet.
   (B)   Each off-street parking area shall provide an area or areas landscaped
equivalent to ten square feet for each parking space. Such landscaping shall be
provided along the periphery of the parking area and shall consist of trees and
plant material; provided, however, that, such landscaped area shall include at
least one minimum 15- gallon tree for each ten parking spaces. In addition, one
minimum 15-gallon tree shall be provided in the interior portions of the
parking area for each 10,000 square feet of parking area. Required landscaped
yard or setback areas shall not be construed as satisfying any portion of the
landscaped area required by this section unless authorized and accepted by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Any unused space resulting from the design of the parking area shall
be used for landscape purposes.
   (D)   All required landscaped areas shall be provided with a permanent and
adequate means of irrigation and shall be adequately maintained.
   (E)   All off-street parking areas, except for single-family dwellings and
two-family dwellings, shall be constructed and maintained to provide the
following:
      (1)   Grading, drainage and a minimum of two inches of asphaltic concrete
paving over a four-inch aggregate base or other acceptable paving design
prepared by a registered professional engineer to the specifications of the
town staff unless a paving waiver is approved by the Planning and Zoning
Commission or a variance is granted by the Hearing Officer;
      (2)   Internal spacing, circulation and dimensions as indicated on the
sample parking lot plan at the end of this section;
      (3)   Bumpers, wheel stops, stall markings and other vehicular controls
to the specifications of the Town Manager or designee;
      (4)   Lighting may be required to the specifications of the Town Manager
or designee. In all cases, such lighting shall be arranged and shielded so that
direct rays do not shine onto adjacent property and so that no light is
projected above the horizontal;
      (5)   Drainage shall be provided to the specifications of the town staff;
and
      (6)   Parking lot turn-outs shall be a minimum of 100 feet from the
nearest street intersection.
   (F)   Parking area design dimensions shall be as follows. (See sample
parking lot plan.) In the event practical difficulties and hardships result
from the strict enforcement of the following standards due to existing
permanent buildings or an irregularly shaped parcel, an administrative variance
by the Town Manager may be given for Standards Nos. 1 through 4 inclusive, not
to exceed 10%. Note: The number in the left-hand column of the following
listing refers to the numbers on the attached sample parking lot plot plan.
1.  30 degrees 45 degrees 60 degrees 90 degrees
2.  16 feet    17 feet    18 feet    18 feet
3.  14 feet    16 feet    19 feet    24 feet
4.  46 feet    50 feet    55 feet    60 feet
5.  14 feet for one-way traffic; 24 feet for two-way traffic (2-way aisles
    shall be permitted only on 90-degree parking designs).
6.  Islands shall have a maximum length of 180 feet.
7.  Islands shall have a minimum width of 5 feet. The minimum average width of
    islands at the extremities of 90-degree parking islands shall be 5 feet.
    Curbs shall be installed at a minimum of 5 feet from walls, fences,
    buildings or other structures. This requirement excepts driveways that are
8.  not a part of the maneuvering area for parking. A curb shall be installed a
    minimum of 3 feet from the edge of driveways that are parallel to block
    walls or fences.
9.  Curb radius shall be 3-foot minimum.
10. Driveway widths shall be 24 feet minimum and constructed to town standards.
11. First parking space shall be 10 feet minimum distance from front and street
    side property lines.
12. Walk openings 4 feet wide shall be permitted in the island every 5 spaces.
13. Parking stall length may include allowance for vehicle overhang of a curb
    or planter area up to a maximum of 3 feet.
14. All parallel parking stalls shall be a minimum of 8 feet x 24 feet.
 
   (G)   Where off-street parking facilities are provided, but not required by
§
15, such facilities shall comply with the development standards of this
section.
   (H)   Loading spaces shall be provided to the specifications of the Town
Manager or designee.
   (I)   Parking for the handicapped shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements of A.R.S. § 34-405-C.
   (J)   At the discretion of the Town Manager or designee, designated bus
parking may be required for uses subject to tour bus traffic. Where required,
minimum dimensions for bus parking spaces shall be 12 feet by 42 feet for angle
parking and ten feet by 48 feet for parallel parking.
   (K)   At the discretion of the Town Manager or designee, off-street parking
facilities providing more than 40 parking spaces may contain an on-site traffic
circulation and parking plan to accommodate both full-size and compact car
spaces. Said optional parking plans shall meet the following criteria.
      (1)   Not more than 40% of the total number of parking spaces shall be
designed for compact and sub-compact vehicles.
      (2)   Compact spaces must be designed for 90-degree parking and located
opposite a 45-degree or 30-degree full-sized aisle and parking stall.
      (3)   Compact car parking spaces shall measure at least eight feet by 15
feet in size.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 16:  SIGNS
Section
   
16.0   Purpose
   
16.1   Definitions
   
16.3   Exempt signs
   
16.4   Special purpose signs
   
16.5   Signs in General, Agricultural Residential and Rural Residential Zones
   
16.6   Signs in Residential Zones
   
16.7   Signs in Commercial Zones
   
16.8   Signs in Industrial Zones
   
16.9   Signs in Special Purpose Zones
      
16.9-1   Signs in the MHP Zone
      
16.9-2   Signs in the PRD Zone
      
16.9-3   Signs in the PC Zone
      
16.9-4   Signs in the PS Zone
      
16.9-5   Signs in the OS Zone
      
16.9-6   Signs in the FPM Zone
      
16.9-7   Signs in the RC Zone
      
16.9-8   Signs in the P Zone
      
16.9-9   Signs in the MR Zone
      
16.10-1   Cash deposit on certain signs
      
16.10-2   Elimination of non-conforming signs
   
16.11   Sign permit requirements
§ 16.0  PURPOSE.
   The location, height, size and illumination of signs are regulated in order
to maintain the attractiveness and environmental qualities of the town to
protect business sites from loss of prominence resulting from excessive signs
on nearby sites; and, to protect the public safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.1  DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions are also found in §
8, Definitions. They are repeated here for convenience and clarity.
   ADVERTISING DEVICE. Any figure, symbol, design, model or device, whether it
contains a lettered advertising message or not, used to attract attention or
convey a message and which is visible from any area outside a building.
ADVERTISING DEVICES include, but are not limited to, vehicles, vehicle parts,
wagons, trailers, railroad cars, shipping containers and goods for sale.
   BANNER. A temporary sign made of pliable material that may or may not be
located in a rigid frame.
   BANNER, COMMUNITY. A banner that provides notice of a community event or
celebration.
   BILLBOARD. Any sign designated for use with changing advertising copy and
which is normally used for the advertisement of goods produced or services
rendered at locations other than the premises on which the sign is located.
   DETACHED (FREESTANDING) SIGN. A ground sign with no form of support other
than its own structural members.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two faces only, with each face oriented 180
degrees from the other.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign attached to a building wall or structure that
extends horizontally more than 12 inches from the face of the wall.
   ROOF SIGN.
      (1)   A sign erected over or on, and wholly or partially dependent upon
the roof of any building for support, or attached to the roof in any way.
      (2)   This definition shall also include any sign painted directly on a
roof.
   SIGN.
      (1)   Any notice, advertising device or advertisement, pictorial or
otherwise, used as an outdoor display or visible from outside a building for
the purpose of advertising the property or the establishment or enterprise,
including goods and services, upon which the sign is exhibited, or for use for
off-site directional purposes.
      (2)   This definition shall not include official notices issued by any
court or public body or officer or directional warning or information sign or
structure required by or authorized by law.
   SIGN, OFF-PREMISE. Any notice, or advertising device, or advertisement which
is erected on the ground or upon a building that does not pertain to the use of
the property on which displayed.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A banner that is installed on the
wall of a new business during the period of time that the permanent business
identification sign is in the town’s sign approval process.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign, which is displayed in a window so as to be visible
beyond the boundaries of the parcel upon which such signs are displayed.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.2  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All sign illumination shall be from the interior or from top
mounted, downward directed floodlight projection.
      (2)   Signs may not be illuminated between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
sunrise, unless the use they advertise is open to the public during those
hours.
      (3)   If illumination is provided, all lights must be installed and used
in conformance with §
17, Lighting, of this zoning code.
      (4)   A banner sign may only be illuminated if it is installed over a
legally lighted sign.
   (B)   No sign shall rotate or simulate movement by means of fluttering,
spinning or reflective devices.
   (C)   (1)   No sign may encroach upon or overhang any adjacent property.
      (2)   No sign shall be attached to any tree.
      (3)   No sign shall be attached to any utility pole, light standard or
any other public facility and no sign may be placed in any public right-of-way
without the approval of the town and the government with jurisdiction.
   (D)   Canopy signs shall not project above the canopy; signs attached to a
building shall not project above the eave line, except as approved by the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4426fa6da8c3ff74da72a405754e4d993ee5be3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-78.jpg]
 
   (E)   The square footage of a sign made up of letters, words or symbols
within a frame shall be determined from the outside edge of the frame itself.
The square footage of a sign composed of only letters, words or symbols shall
be determined from imaginary straight lines drawn around the entire copy or
grouping of such letters, words or symbols. Only those portions of the
construction elements that are an integral part of the sign itself shall be
considered in the allocation of square footage allowed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4426fa6da8c3ff74da72a405754e4d993ee5be3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-80.jpg]
 
   (F)   All signs shall be structurally safe and shall be maintained in good
condition in the opinion of the Town Manager or designee. Furthermore, it shall
be the responsibility of the owner of the land and/or improvements to remove
any sign or signs on premises where the use has been discontinued for a period
of six months. The Town Manager or designee may allow the owner of the land
and/or improvements to remove the sign message in lieu of removing the
structure that contains the sign message.
   (G)   (1)   All signs, together with all of their supports, braces, guys and
anchors shall be kept in good condition.
      (2)   The display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or
posted at all times. Also, all weeds shall be removed periodically as
necessary.
      (3)   The Town Manager or designee may order the removal of any sign that
is not maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Town Building Code.
   (H)   No cloth, paper, plastic or similar advertising signs, banners or
devices other than in rigid frames shall be permitted, except as permitted
herein.
   (I)   For retail commercial uses in any zone where such uses are listed as
permitted or conditional uses, window signs may be permitted. Signage exceeding
25% of the window area is prohibited. Window signs above the ground floor shall
be considered equivalent to a wall sign and shall be included in the overall
signage calculation.
   (J)   No roof signs shall be permitted. However, where no building setback
is provided, roof signs may be permitted, subject to the approval of the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4426fa6da8c3ff74da72a405754e4d993ee5be3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-82.jpg]
 
   (K)   Projecting signs shall not extend out more than 32 inches from the
wall to which they are attached and shall not exceed ten square feet in area. A
minimum of eight feet of clearance between the ground and the bottom edge of
the sign shall be provided.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4426fa6da8c3ff74da72a405754e4d993ee5be3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-84.jpg]
 
   (L)   No person shall exhibit, post or display upon any sign or wall any
statement, symbol or picture of an obscene nature.
   (M)   No person, firm or corporation shall erect, construct, enlarge, modify
or relocate any sign in the town without first obtaining a building permit, as
applicable, for each such sign. Where said sign is electrical or illuminated by
electricity, a separate electrical permit shall be obtained.
   (N)   The following signs shall not require a sign permit: real estate for
sale, rental and open house signs (see §
16.4(A)(2)), residential nameplates (see §§
16.5(A) or 16.6(A)(1) as applicable) and residential construction signs (see §
16.4(A)(2)(c)). A sign permit shall be obtained for all other signs prior to
their installation.
   (O)   Signs shall not blink, flash or be animated by lighting in any
fashion.
   (P)   The operation of searchlights or similar lighting sources for
advertising, display or any other commercial purpose is prohibited.
   (Q)   No sign shall be located in such a manner as to obstruct or otherwise
interfere with an official traffic sign, signal or device or obstruct or
interfere with a driver’s view of approaching, merging or intersecting traffic.
A clear sight triangle shall be maintained at all street intersections and
driveway entrances. Such clear sight triangle shall be determined by measuring
25 feet along each property line at street intersections, and along the
property line and the driveway for driveway entrances. Signs that are to be
located in such clear sight triangle shall not exceed three feet in height.
   (R)   Signs that are placed on gasoline pumps or on spanners above gasoline
pumps that do not exceed one- quarter square foot in area shall not be counted
toward the maximum number of wall signs allowed for each use. One such sign may
be placed on each side of a gasoline pump or spanner. If such signs exceed one-
quarter square foot in area they shall be considered wall signs and will be
counted toward the maximum number of wall signs allowed for each use.
   (S)   Fluorescent signs or signs with fluorescent lettering, illustrations
or features are prohibited.
   (T)   The base of a freestanding sign shall be located in a planter box or
other landscaped area.
   (U)   Sign height:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4426fa6da8c3ff74da72a405754e4d993ee5be3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-86.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.3  EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be exempt from the provisions of this section:
   (A)   Official notices authorized by a court, public body or public safety
official;
   (B)   Directional, warning or information signs authorized by federal,
state, county or town authority;
   (C)   Memorial plaques and building cornerstones when cut or carved into a
masonry surface or when made of incombustible material and made an integral
part of the building or structure;
   (D)   Commemorative symbols, plaques and historical tablets; and
   (E)   Political signs; provided, however, that, such signs shall be
displayed no more than 60 calendar days prior to the election to which they
refer, and shall be removed within three calendar days following the date of
the election to which they refer. Political signs shall not be placed in any
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.4  SPECIAL PURPOSE SIGNS.
   (A)   The following special purpose signs shall be permitted:
      (1)   Directional signs. In any zone, one parking directional sign not
exceeding ten square feet in area or six feet in height at each parking area
entrance or exit. Directional signs painted on paved parking areas shall be
permitted. No advertising message of any kind shall be displayed on a parking
directional sign;
      (2)   Real estate and development signs.
         (a)   For sale or rental signs. In any zone, one on-site unlighted
sign not exceeding six square feet on each street frontage adjoining a site.
Freestanding signs shall not exceed six feet in height. Parcels of 40 acres or
more shall be allowed one freestanding sign not exceeding 20 square feet in
area and eight feet in height. All sale and rental signs shall be removed
within 30 days from the date of sale;
         (b)   Open house signs. Open house signs shall be limited to four
square feet and shall not exceed three feet in height. They shall be limited to
no more than two days per week for any given property. One on-site and no more
than three off-premise signs are permitted. The signs shall be placed no more
than 30 minutes prior to the beginning of the open house and shall be removed
within 30 minutes of the end of the open house. Off-premise signs placed in
public rights-of-way shall be placed such that they do not obstruct traffic or
visibility at the intersection. They shall not obstruct multi-purpose paths or
sidewalks. When placed on private easements, they shall be placed with the
property owner’s permission;
         (c)   Construction signs. On the site of a property actively under
construction, one unlighted sign not exceeding 20 square feet in area and six
feet in height in a Residential Zone or 40 square feet in area and eight feet
in height in a Commercial or Industrial Zone to identify each contractor,
architect or engineer engaged in the project. Said signs shall be removed
within five days after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy by the town;
         (d)   Directional subdivision signs. In any zone, unlighted signs
advertising subdivisions containing only the name of the subdivision, the name
of the developer and/or agent, an identification emblem and directional message
shall be permitted; provided:
            1.   There shall be no more than three such signs for each
subdivision;
            2.   The total area of all signs shall not exceed 30 square feet;
            3.   The total height of each sign shall not exceed eight feet;
            4.   Directional subdivision signs may be displayed during the two
years following the date of recordation of the final plat for the subdivision,
or until 100% of the lots have been sold, whichever occurs first; and
            5.   Directional subdivision signs may be located outside the
boundaries of the subdivision, but no further than the closest intersection of
a public street.
         (e)   Temporary on-site subdivision signs. Temporary on-site
subdivision signs shall be permitted; provided, there shall be no more than 100
square feet of total sign area for each subdivision and a total of five signs.
Freestanding signs shall not exceed 15 feet in height in a commercial
subdivisionand eight feet in height in a residential subdivision. Such on-site
signs shall be permitted to remain for two years from the date the required
sign permit is issued. An extension beyond the two-year limitation may be
granted for a one-year period, subject to the approval of the Planning and
Zoning Commission. However, if a conditional use permit is approved for a sales
office, any temporary on-site subdivision signs may remain for the term of the
conditional use permit;
         (f)   Subdivision entrance signs. At the major street entrance(s) to a
subdivision or development, not more than two signs, each not exceeding 20
square feet in area per sign, shall be permitted. Such signs shall be attached
to and shall not extend above a wall or fence, and shall indicate only the name
and/or the address of the subdivision or development. Design, color scheme and
height of entrance signs are subject to the approval of the Town Manager or
designee. Such signs shall be constructed of materials and shall be affixed to
the wall or fence in such a manner as to render them not readily susceptible to
vandalism; and
         (g)   Leasing and rental signs. Office buildings and shopping centers
and industrial subdivisions may display leasing and rental signs for a period
of one year following final construction inspection. These signs shall be
limited to one freestanding sign and two building-mounted signs not to exceed a
total of 150 square feet in area. Freestanding signs shall not exceed eight
feet in height.
      (3)   Special sale signs.
         (a)   For retail commercial uses in any zone where such uses are
listed as permitted or conditional uses, special sale signs or banners may be
permitted while a special sale of goods or services is being conducted.
         (b)   Signs shall be professionally made, attached to a building wall
or installed over an existing freestanding sign and shall be limited to one per
street frontage.
         (c)   The display of the signs shall be limited to 14 days per
calendar quarter.
         (d)   The size of special sale signs shall not exceed 32 square feet
each.
      (4)   Other special signs.
         (a)   Flags, emblems, insignias and posters of any nation, state,
international organization, political subdivision or other governmental agency;
unlighted non-verbal religious symbols attached to a place of religious
worship; and, temporary displays of a patriotic, religious, charitable or civic
character shall be exempt from the provisions of this section, except as
follows.
            1.   If the height exceeds 30 feet, such signs shall be subject to
the approval of the Town Manager or designee.
            2.   With the exception of a public space such as a transportation
center, visitor center or roadway median, a maximum of one U.S. and one Arizona
flag shall be allowed per property.
            3.   Flag poles shall not exceed 40 feet in height.
            4.   The preceding shall not be construed as to permit the use of
such flags, insignias and the like for the purpose of advertising or
identifying a product or business.
         (b)   Temporary business identification sign for new businesses only
and subject to the following.
            1.   A sign permit from the town is required.
            2.   If design review is required, it shall be done by the town
staff and approved by the Town Manager.
            3.   A temporary business identification sign shall be removed
within two weeks of the issuance of a permit(s) for the permanent business
signage, but no longer than 60 days from the date of the issuance of the permit
for the temporary business identification sign. One 30-day extension of time
may be approved by town staff. A second 30-day extension may be approved by the
Town Manager. No further extensions are authorized. An extension of time will
only be approved upon a finding that the business owner has been diligent in
pursuing approval of permanent signage.
            4.   Only one sign mounted on a building wall or over an existing
wall sign is permitted.
            5.   If the temporary identification sign is installed over an
existing sign, the new business owner may also apply for a banner sign as
provided in §
16.7(A)(5) of this regulation.
            6.   Sign must be maintained in good condition.
            7.   Maximum size shall be 32 square feet or if the sign is to be
installed over an existing sign, it may be the same size as the existing sign.
            8.   The sign shall be professionally made.
      (5)   House of worship announcement banner sign.
         (a)   One banner sign may be placed on the site of the future
construction/location of a house of worship. The purpose of the sign shall be
to announce the future location of a house of worship on the site. The sign may
be free standing and if so, shall be vented to withstand wind. It shall be
setback from the closest property line at least ten feet. It shall be a maximum
area of 32 square feet and a maximum height of eight feet.
         (b)   One banner sign may be placed on the wall of a building
announcing an event, classes or other temporary occurrence at a house of
worship. The banner shall be a maximum area of 32 square feet and be
professionally made. It shall remain on site for a maximum of 14 days.
      (6)   Community banner signs.
         (a)   A community banner sign larger than 32 square feet requires
approval of the Town Council.
         (b)   A community banner sign located partially or entirely within the
public right-of-way requires the approval of the government with jurisdiction.
         (c)   A community banner sign shall not obstruct or impair the
visibility of the driver of a vehicle.
         (d)   A community banner sign need not be in a rigid frame, but it
shall be maintained in good condition while it is being used.
         (e)   A community banner sign may remain in any one location for a
maximum of three weeks unless approved for a longer period of time by the Town
Council.
   (B)   The following special purpose signs shall be prohibited.
      (1)   Billboards.
         (a)   Billboards and off-premise signs shall not be permitted in any
zone. All existing billboards and off-premise signs are non-conforming uses,
subject to the provisions of §
19 of this zoning code.
         (b)   If any billboard contains copy advertising a use, business or
product no longer in existence, or is left blank, or is maintained without paid
copy for a period of 180 days or more, such billboard shall be removed
immediately unless a conditional use permit is approved for its reuse.
      (2)   Portable signs. Portable and sandwich board signs are prohibited.
Temporary real estate “open house” signs shall be exempt.
      (3)   Vehicle signs. Signs painted on or attached to vehicles parked on
public or private premises that are displayed in view of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic for a period in excess of 24 hours shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.5  SIGNS IN GENERAL, AGRICULTURAL RESIDENTIAL AND RURAL RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   Except as prescribed in §
16.4, Special Purpose Signs, only the following signs shall be permitted in a
General, Agricultural Residential or Rural Residential Zone:
   (A)   Residential uses. One nameplate not exceeding one square foot in area
indicating the name of the occupant;
   (B)   Agricultural uses.
      (1)   One unlighted sign not exceeding six square feet in area or six
feet in height pertaining to the sale of products raised on the premises;
      (2)   One unlighted identification sign not exceeding ten square feet in
area or six feet in height identifying an agricultural or related use conducted
on the premises; and
      (3)   Only one sign pertaining to the agricultural or related use of the
premises shall be permitted.
   (C)   Public and semi-public uses. One freestanding sign not to exceed 15
square feet in area and six feet in height, and one unlighted wall sign not to
exceed six square feet in area;
   (D)   Other uses. One sign not to exceed 15 square feet in area.
Freestanding signs shall not exceed six feet in height; and
   (E)   Special uses. Signs identifying special uses shall be as authorized by
the conditional use permit required for the establishment of special uses
within the G, AR and RR Zones.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.6  SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   Except as prescribed in §
16.4, Special Purpose Signs, only the following signs shall be permitted in a
Residential Zone.
   (A)   Residential uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling units and two- family dwelling units: one
nameplate per dwelling not exceeding one square foot in area indicating the
name of the occupant. On a site with more than one dwelling unit, nameplates
shall not be combined.
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings, apartment developments, boarding or rooming
houses, dormitories: one unlighted identification sign not exceeding 15 square
feet in area. Freestanding signs shall not exceed six feet in height.
   (B)   Agricultural uses. One unlighted sign not exceeding six square feet in
area or six feet in height pertaining to the sale of products raised on the
premises.
   (C)   Public and semi-public uses. One freestanding sign not to exceed 15
square feet in area and six feet in height, and one unlighted wall sign not
exceeding six square feet in area. Lighting requirements for signs shall be as
specified in the required conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.7  SIGNS IN COMMERCIAL ZONES.
   Except as prescribed in §
16.4, Special Purpose Signs, only the following signs shall be permitted in a
Commercial Zone.
   (A)   Commercial uses in the CN-2/A and CG-10,000 Zones.
      (1)   One freestanding identification sign may be placed on each lot or
parcel of land. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 15 feet in height. The
maximum area of freestanding signs shall be as follows.
         (a)   In the CN-2/A Zone, freestanding signs shall not exceed 75
square feet in area.
         (b)   In the CG-10,000 Zone, freestanding signs shall not exceed 75
square feet in area; provided, however, that, for each lineal foot of property
frontage in excess of 75 feet, an additional one square foot of sign area shall
be permitted to a maximum of 100 square feet. Where more than one business is
being conducted on a single lot or parcel of land, the permitted sign area for
each business may be combined into one freestanding sign  up to a maximum
combined area of 125 square feet, however, for each lineal foot of property
frontage in excess of 125 feet, an additional one square foot of sign area
shall be permitted to a maximum of 175 square feet.
      (2)   Wall signs shall be allowed as follows.
         (a)   The total area of all wall signs shall not exceed one square
foot of area for each lineal foot of property frontage up to a maximum of 300
square feet.
         (b)   The maximum size of any one sign shall be 150 square feet.
         (c)   A maximum of two wall signs may be placed on any side of a
building.
         (d)   The total area of signs displayed on any side of a building
shall not exceed 150 square feet.
         (e)   A maximum of six wall signs may be displayed for each use.
         (f)   Should a portion of a parcel be leased for development the
dimensions and orientation of the leased portion shall be used to determine
frontage and total sign face square footage.
         (g)   Property with frontage on more than one street shall get credit
for the total amount of street frontage.
      (3)   Wall signs on multiple tenant commercial buildings shall be allowed
as follows.
         (a)   One tenant directory wall sign may be displayed. The maximum
size of the directory sign shall be 75 square feet. The directory sign may be
located on any wall of the building.
         (b)   One wall sign may be displayed for each tenant. The maximum size
of the wall sign shall be 40 square feet. Each wall sign shall be located on a
wall of the space occupied by the tenant that is advertised.
         (c)   One projecting sign may be displayed for each tenant. The
maximum size of each projecting sign shall be as prescribed in §
16.2(K). Each projecting sign shall be attached to a wall of the space occupied
by the tenant that is advertised.
         (d)   Property with frontage on more than one street shall get credit
for the total amount of street frontage.
      (4)   Signs on canopies above gasoline pump islands shall be allowed as
follows.
         (a)   The total area of signs placed on such canopies shall be
deducted from the total area allowed by division (A)(2)(a) above.
         (b)   A maximum of two signs may be placed on such canopies. The
number of signs placed on such canopies shall be deducted from the total number
of signs allowed by division (A)(2)(e) above.
         (c)   A maximum of two signs that do not exceed six square feet in
area (i.e., franchise logos) may be placed on such a canopy. No more than one
such sign may be placed on any one side of a canopy. Such signs shall not be
counted toward the maximum total area allowed or the maximum number of signs
allowed.
      (5)   Banner signs for the following business purposes: grand opening,
change of business name or change of business management, subject to the
following requirements:
         (a)   Thirty-two square feet maximum size;
         (b)   Fourteen days maximum length of time;
         (c)   Must be maintained in good condition;
         (d)   Must be located on a building wall, below the roof line;
         (e)   Must be professionally made;
         (f)   Only one banner permitted per street frontage at any one time
for a business purpose;
         (g)   A sign permit issued by the town is required; and
         (h)   Banner will be allowed for up to two business purposes per year.
A banner for a third business purpose in one year will require approval of a
temporary use permit.
   (B)   Commercial uses in the CH-10,000 Zone. Signs identifying commercial
uses in the CH-10,000 Zone shall be permitted to the same extent as in the CG-
10,000 Zone; provided, however, additional signing may be approved under design
review when applicable.
   (C)   Public and semi-public uses: Commercial Zones. One sign not exceeding
30 square feet in area. Freestanding signs shall not exceed six feet in height.
Lighting requirements for signs shall be as specified in the required
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.8  SIGNS IN INDUSTRIAL ZONES.
   Except as prescribed in §
16.4, Special Purpose Signs, only the following signs shall be permitted in an
Industrial Zone.
   (A)   Industrial uses in the MP-20,000 Zone.
      (1)   One single-faced wall or canopy sign per use, not exceeding one
square foot of area for each lineal foot of building or portion thereof, may be
placed on the side of the building facing the major street frontage up to a
maximum of 100 square feet.
      (2)   One monument-type sign per use may be permitted providing the
maximum area shall not exceed 20 square feet and the maximum height shall not
exceed six feet.
   (B)   Industrial uses in the M-1-10,000 Zone.
      (1)   One single-faced wall or canopy sign per use, not exceeding one
square foot of area for each lineal foot of building or portion thereof, may be
placed on the side of the building facing the major street frontage up to a
maximum of 100 square feet.
      (2)   One freestanding sign not exceeding 100 square feet in area;
provided, however, that, there be no more than one such sign per lot or parcel
of land. Where more than one use is being conducted on a single lot or parcel
of land, the permitted sign area for each business may be combined into one
freestanding sign up to a maximum of 125 square feet. Freestanding signs shall
not exceed 15 feet in height.
   (C)   Industrial uses in the M-2-6,000 Zone. Signs identifying industrial
uses in the M-2-6,000 Zone shall be permitted to the same extent as in the M-1-
10,000 Zone.
   (D)   Public and semi-public uses: Industrial Zones. One sign not exceeding
30 square feet in area. Freestanding signs shall not exceed six feet in height.
   (E)   Frontage and square footage. Should a portion of a parcel be leased
for development the dimensions and orientation of the leased portion shall be
used to determine frontage and total sign face square footage.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9  SIGNS IN SPECIAL PURPOSE ZONES.
   Except as prescribed in §
16.4, Special Purpose Signs, only the following signs shall be permitted in the
following Special Purpose Zones.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9-1  SIGNS IN THE MHP ZONE.
   At the major street entrance(s) to the manufactured home park or
manufactured home subdivision, not more than two lighted signs, each not
exceeding 20 square feet in area, attached to and not extending above a wall or
fence, indicating only the name and/or the address of the manufactured home
park or subdivision.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9-2  SIGNS IN THE PRD ZONE.
   At the major street entrance(s) to the planned residential development, not
more than two signs, each not exceeding 20 square feet in area, attached to and
not extending above a wall or fence, identifying only the name and/or the
address of the planned residential development.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9-3  SIGNS IN THE PC ZONE.
   Signs in the PC Zone shall be as specified in the text which constitutes the
standards of development as approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9-4  SIGNS IN THE PS ZONE.
   Except as prescribed in §
16.4, Special Purpose Signs, only the following signs shall be permitted in the
PS Zone:
   (A)   Agricultural uses. One unlighted sign not exceeding six square feet in
area or six feet in height pertaining to the products raised on the premises;
and
   (B)   All other uses. Signs shall be as specified in the conditional use
permit required for all uses, except agricultural uses.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9-5  SIGNS IN THE OS ZONE.
   (A)   Permitted uses. One unlighted sign not exceeding ten square feet in
area or six feet in height; and
   (B)   Conditional uses. Signs identifying uses permitted, subject to the
granting of a conditional use permit shall be as specified in the approved use
permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9-6  SIGNS IN THE FPM ZONE.
   Signs in the FPM Zone shall be in accordance with the regulations applicable
to the underlying zone in which the FPM Zone is combined or as authorized under
a conditional use permit required for specified uses.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9-7  SIGNS IN THE RC ZONE.
   Signs in the RC Zone shall be as specified on the development plan as
approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9-8  SIGNS IN THE P ZONE.
   Only those signs as specified in §
16.4(A)(1), Directional Signs, shall be permitted in the P Zone; except that,
additional signing may be permitted as authorized under a conditional use
permit required for specified uses.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.9-9  SIGNS IN THE MR ZONE.
   (A)   Permitted uses. One unlighted sign not exceeding ten square feet in
area or six feet in height.
   (B)   Conditional uses. Signs identifying uses permitted, subject to the
granting of a conditional use permit shall be as specified in the approved use
permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.10-1  CASH DEPOSIT ON CERTAIN SIGNS.
   (A)   Applications for permits for directional subdivision signs shall be
accompanied by a cash deposit of $250 for each sign which shall be posted with
the town. Such $250 cash deposit shall be used to defray the costs of sign
removal by the town in the event the permit holder defaults upon the agreement
to remove same.
   (B)   Before any permit for any such sign is issued, the applicant and the
record owner(s) of the property shall furnish the Town Manager or designee
written authority granting the town permission to enter upon the premises to
remove such sign.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.10-2  ELIMINATION OF NON- CONFORMING SIGNS.
   The elimination of non-conforming signs shall be as prescribed in §
19.5, Non-Conforming Signs.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 16.11  SIGN PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information shall be submitted when applying for a sign
permit:
   (A)   Plot plan showing improvements, accurate dimensions, landscaped areas,
ingress/egress, traffic flow and parking area(s);
   (B)   Indicate proposed and/or existing location of each sign of any type,
as per allowances indicated in the section for the applicable zoning district;
and
   (C)   Provide specific signage information (sketch or photographs)
indicating color scheme, lettering or graphic style, lighting and material.
Each proposed or existing sign shall have a sketch provided.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 17:  LIGHTING
Section
   
17.0   Purpose and intent
   
17.1   Conflicting regulations
   
17.2   Approved materials and methods of construction or installation/operation
   
17.3   Definitions
   
17.4   Preferred sources
   
17.5   General requirements
   
17.6   Special requirements, outdoor advertising signs
   
17.7   Special requirements, special uses
   
17.8   Exemptions
   
17.9   Temporary lighting permits
   
17.10   Non-conforming uses
   
17.11   Variances
   
17.12   Permits and development plan reviews
§ 17.0  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   (1)   It is hereby found that the topography and atmospheric
conditions of the Town of Tusayan, Arizona, and the surrounding area are
uniquely suited for astronomical observation.
      (2)   It is further recognized that naturally dark landscapes and star-
filled skies are valued by many residents and visitors, and that poor lighting
practices in outdoor lighting not only unnecessarily impede views of the starry
night sky but also waste energy, hamper the use and enjoyment of property and
can endanger the public welfare by producing unnecessary glare.
   (B)   (1)   Accordingly, it is the intent of this zoning code to encourage
lighting practices and systems which will minimize light pollution, light
trespass, and conserve energy while maintaining night-time safety, utility,
security and productivity.
      (2)   To conserve energy, the Tusayan Town Council encourages the users
of outdoor lighting to transition from high energy consumptive lighting to more
energy efficient, low wattage lighting.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.1  CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   In the event of conflict between the regulations set forth in this zoning
code and any other regulations the more stringent limitation and requirement
shall govern.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.2  APPROVED MATERIALS AND METHODS OF CONSTRUCTION OR INSTALLATION/
OPERATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this zoning code are not intended to prevent the use
of any design, material or method of installation or operation not specifically
prescribed by this code; provided, any such alternate has been approved by the
Town Manager.
   (B)   The Town Manager may approve such proposed alternate; provided, he or
she finds that it:
      (1)   Provides at least approximate equivalence to the applicable
specific requirements of this zoning code; and
      (2)   Is otherwise satisfactory and complies with the intent of this
zoning code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.3  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this zoning code, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise,
certain words and phrases shall mean the following.
   ABANDONMENT. The discontinuation of use for a period of 12 months.
   ACREAGE, NET. The remaining ground area in acres after deleting all portions
for proposed and existing public streets and roadways within a development
project or subdivision.
   AIRPORT NAVIGATION LIGHTING SYSTEMS. The airport tower beacon, runway
lights, guidance lights for landings, taxiway lighting and any other lighting
on airport property required by the state or the Federal Aviation
Administration.
   CLASS 1 LIGHTING. All outdoor lighting used for, but not limited to, outdoor
sales or eating areas, principal public entryways, assembly or repair areas,
advertising and other signs, recreational facilities and other similar
applications where color rendition is important to preserve the effectiveness
of the activity.
   CLASS 2 LIGHTING. All outdoor lighting used for, but not limited to,
illumination for walkways, roadways, equipment yards, parking lots, emergency
exits and outdoor security where general illumination of the grounds is the
primary concern.
   CLASS 3 LIGHTING. Any outdoor lighting used for decorative effects,
including, but not limited to, architectural illumination, flag and monument
lighting, and illumination of trees, bushes, landscape features and the like.
   CORRELATED COLOR TEMPERATURE (CCT). A measure, expressed in Kelvins
(abbreviated as K) of the apparent hue of white light sources such as metal
halide, fluorescent and white LED. Higher CCT sources appear bluer or cooler;
lower CCT sources appear yellower or warmer.
   DEVELOPMENT PROJECT. Any residential, commercial, industrial or mixed use
subdivision plan or development plan which is submitted to the town for
approval.
   DIRECT  ILLUMINATION. Illumination resulting from light emitted directly
from a lamp or luminaire, not light diffused through translucent signs or
reflected from other surfaces such as the ground or building faces.
   FULLY-SHIELDED FIXTURE.
      (1)   A light fixture or luminous tube constructed and mounted such that
all light emitted by the fixture or tube, either directly from the lamp, tube,
or a diffusing element, or indirectly by reflection or refraction from any part
of the luminaire, is projected below the horizontal.
      (2)   A practical working way to determine if a fixture or tube is fully
shielded: if the lamp or tube, any reflective surface, or lens cover (clear or
prismatic) is visible when viewed from above or directly from the side, from
any angle around the fixture or tube, the fixture or tube is not fully
shielded.
      (3)   Note for luminous (neon) tubes: when such lighting is installed
under or behind a roof overhang, if the roof-line or eave is not horizontal the
tubing may be visible from above when viewed from the side and therefore be
unshielded.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4426fa6da8c3ff74da72a405754e4d993ee5be3c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-88.jpg]
 
   HIGH-PRESSURE SODIUM (HPS). A type of lamp using sodium and mercury vapor at
high pressure to produce a yellow or golden-hued light.
   INSTALLED. Attached, or fixed in place, whether or not connected to a power
source.
   LED. A light emitting diode.
   LIGHT POLLUTION. Any adverse effect of human-made lighting, light where it
is not needed or wanted or wasted light.
   LOW-PRESSURE SODIUM (LPS). A type of lamp using sodium vapor at low pressure
to  produce  a yellow or amber hued light.
   LUMEN. The unit used to measure the actual amount of visible light that is
produced by a lamp.
   LUMINAIRE. The complete lighting assembly, including the lamp, housing,
shields, lenses and associated electronics, less the support hardware or
brackets; a light fixture.
   LUMINOUS TUBE. A glass tube filled with a gas or gas mixture (including
neon, argon, mercury or other gasses), usually of small diameter (ten to 15
millimeter), caused to emit light by the passage of an electric current, and
commonly bent into various forms for use as decoration or signs; a “neon” tube.
A LUMINOUS TUBE does not include common fluorescent tubes.
   METAL HALIDE (MH). A type of lamp using mercury and metal halide(s) to
produce light.
   NARROW-SPECTRUM AMBER LED. An LED light source that emits only yellow light
at and near a wavelength of 590 nanometers (nm); the intensity at 580 and 600
nm must be no higher than 50% of  the peak intensity.
   NEON TUBE. See LUMINOUS TUBE.
   OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURE. An outdoor electrically-powered illuminating device,
lamp, luminous tube or and similar devices, either permanently installed or
portable, which is used for illumination or advertisement. Such devices shall
include, but are not limited to, searchlights, spotlights and floodlights for:
      (1)   Buildings and structures;
      (2)   Recreational areas;
      (3)   Parking lot lighting;
      (4)   Landscape and architectural lighting;
      (5)   Billboards and other signs (advertising or other);
      (6)   Street lighting;
      (7)   Product display area lighting;
      (8)   Building overhangs and open canopies;
      (9)   Pedestrian walkways or areas; and
      (10)   Building or landscape decoration.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITY. An area designed for active recreation, whether
publicly or privately owned, including, but not limited to, baseball diamonds,
soccer and football fields, golf courses, tennis courts and swimming pools.
   PERSON. Any individual, lessee, owner or any commercial entity including,
but not limited to, firm, business, partnership, joint venture or corporation.
   TEMPORARY LIGHTING. Lighting which does not conform to the provisions of
this zoning code and which will not be used for more than one 30-day period
within a calendar year. TEMPORARY LIGHTING is intended for uses which, by their
nature, are of limited duration (e.g., civic events or construction projects).
   TOTAL OUTDOOR LIGHT OUTPUT. The maximum total amount of light, measured in
lumens, from all outdoor lighting installed on a development project. Includes
all lights and luminous tubing used for Class 1, Class 2, Class 3 lighting and
lights used for external illumination of signs, but does not include lights
used to illuminate internally illuminated signs or luminous tubing used in neon
signs. For lamp types that vary in their output as they age (such as
metalhalide), the initial output, as defined by the manufacturer, is the value
to be considered. For determining compliance with §
17.5(C) of this zoning code, the light emitted from outdoor light fixtures is
to be included in the total output as follows.
      (1)   Outdoor light fixtures installed in the open such as on poles or on
the sides of buildings or other structures, when not shielded from above by the
structure itself, as defined in divisions (2) and (3) of this definition, are
to be included in the total outdoor light output by simply adding the lumen
outputs of the lamps used.
      (2)   Outdoor light fixtures installed under canopies, building overhangs
or roof eaves where the center of the lamp or luminaire is located at least
five feet, but less than ten feet, from the nearest edge of the canopy or
overhang are to be included in the total outdoor light output as though they
produced only one-quarter of the lamp’s rated lumen output.
      (3)   Outdoor light fixtures under the canopy and ten or more feet from
the nearest edge of a canopy, building overhang or eave are to be included in
the total outdoor light output as though they produced only one-tenth of the
lamp’s rated lumen output.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.4  PREFERRED SOURCES.
   Due to their reduced dark sky impacts, low-pressure sodium (LPS) lamps and
narrow spectrum amber LED are the preferred lighting sources; their use is to
be encouraged, when not required, for outdoor illumination whenever their use
would not be detrimental to the use of the property.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.5  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upward-directed floodlighting. Outdoor floodlighting by floodlight
projection above the horizontal plane is prohibited.
   (B)   Lamp source and shielding. The requirements for lamp source and
shielding of light emissions for outdoor light fixtures are as follows.
      (1)   Class 1 lighting.
 
Low-pressure sodium       Allowed, fully shielded
Narrow-spectrum amber LED Allowed, fully shielded
Others above 2,000 lumens Allowed, fully shielded*
Others below 2,000 lumens Allowed, fully shielded
 
      (2)   Class 2 lighting.
 
Low-pressure sodium       Allowed, fully shielded
Narrow-spectrum amber LED Allowed, fully shielded
Others above 2,000 lumens Prohibited
Others below 2,000 lumens Prohibited
 
      (3)   Class 3 lighting.
 
Low-pressure sodium       Allowed, fully shielded
Narrow-spectrum amber LED Allowed, fully shielded
Others above 2,000 lumens Prohibited
Others below 2,000 lumens Allow, fully shielded
 
      (4)   Residential lighting (all classes).
 
All types Allowed, fully shielded
 
      (5)   Examples. Examples of lamp types of 2,000 lumens and below. The
acceptability of a particular light is decided by its lumen output, not
wattage; values listed are approximate; check manufacturer’s specifications:
         (a)   One-hundred watt standard incandescent and less;
         (b)   One-hundred watt tungsten-halogen (quartz) and less;
         (c)   No available high-pressure sodium of metal halide;
         (d)   Twenty-five watt fluorescent and less; and
         (e)   Twenty-six watt compact fluorescent and less.
      *Metal Halide, fluorescent, LED or other white light sources must have
CCT of 3,200K or less
   (C)   Total outdoor light output. Total outdoor light output, excluding
streetlights used to illuminate public rights-of-way, shall not exceed the
following limits averaged over the entire project (values listed are total
initial lamp lumens per acre and per residence):
      (1)   Commercial, industrial and multi-family land use (lumens per net
acre):
 
Non-LPS/narrow-spectrum amber LED 5,000
Total                             50,000
Unshielded                        0
 
      (2)   Single-family residential (lumens per residence):
 
Total      10,000
Unshielded 0
 
   (D)   Effective shielding. All light fixtures which are required to be
shielded shall be installed in such a manner that the shielding is effective,
as defined in §
17.3, under fully-shielded fixture and partially- shielded fixture.
   (E)   Direct lighting on site. All light fixtures, except street lamps,
shall be aimed or shielded so that the direct illumination shall be confined to
the property boundaries of the source as much as is feasible.
   (F)   Direct lighting off roadways. All light fixtures, except streetlamps,
shall be installed in such a manner that the direct illumination does not fall
onto any public or private street or road as much as is feasible.
   (G)   Curfew.
      (1)   Class 1 and Class 3 lighting and lighted signs must be extinguished
at 11:00 p.m., or no later than 30 minutes after the business closes, whichever
is later. (For holiday decoration exemption, see §
17.8(B).)
      (2)   Class 2 lighting located 75 feet or more from a building or outdoor
sales or merchandise storage area must be extinguished at 11:00 p.m., or no
later than 30 minutes after the business closes, whichever is later.
   (H)   High-intensity lights. Searchlights, laser source lights or any
similar high-intensity light shall not be permitted, except in emergencies by
police and fire personnel or at their direction.
   (I)   Mercury vapor sales. The installation, sale, offering for sale, lease
or purchase of any mercury vapor light fixture or lamp for use as outdoor
lighting is prohibited.
   (J)   Ornamental luminaries. Ornamental luminaries with exposed light
sources are not permitted.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.6  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Externally illuminated sign standards. External illumination for signs
shall be limited to signs constructed of natural materials and shall conform to
all provisions of this zoning code. In particular, such lighting shall be
treated as Class 1 lighting and shall conform to the lamp source, shielding
restrictions andlumen caps of §
17.5. All upward-directed sign lighting is prohibited.
   (B)   Internally illuminated sign and neon sign standards.
      (1)   Illumination of copy and background; colors. The sign face of an
outdoor internally illuminated advertising sign must be composed of illuminated
text and symbols against an opaque (not  illuminated) background. The colors of
these elements are not restricted.
      (2)   Exclusion of lamp outputs. Lamps used for internal illumination of
signs shall not be counted toward the lumen caps in §
17.5(C).
      (3)   Neon signs. Neon signs shall be treated as internally illuminated
signs for the purposes of thiszoning code, and shall not have their luminous
outputs counted toward the lumen caps in §
17.5(C). Neon lighting extending beyond the area considered to be the sign area
(as defined in the Sign Code of this jurisdiction) shall conform to all
provisions of this zoning code. In particular, such lighting shall be treated
as Class 3 (decorative) lighting and shall conform to the lumen caps and
shielding standards of §
17.5.
      (4)   Non-sign lighting. Other internally- illuminated panels or
decorations not considered to be signage according to the sign code of this
jurisdiction (such as illuminated canopy margins or building faces), shall be
considered decorative (Class 3) lighting, and shall be subject to the standards
applicable for such lighting, including, but not limited to, the lamp source,
shielding standards and lumens per acre caps of §
17.5.
   (C)   Curfews. Illumination for all advertising signs, both externally and
internally illuminated, shall be turned off no later than the curfew times
listed in §
17.5(G). Signs subject to curfews are required to have functioning and properly
adjusted automatic shut-off timers.
   (D)   Curfews for pre-existing signs. Light background (white, off-white,
light gray, cream or yellow) internally illuminated signs, installed legally
before enactment of this code may continue to be used and illuminated, but must
conform to the curfews of §
17.5(G).
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.7  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS, SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Service station canopies.
      (1)   Lighting class. Lighting for service station canopies shall be
considered Class 1 lighting.
      (2)   Shielding. All luminaires mounted on or recessed into the lower
surface of service station canopies shall be fully shielded and utilize flat
lenses.
      (3)   Total under-canopy output. In addition to the standards for total
outdoor light output in §
17.5(C), the total light output used for illuminating service station canopies,
defined as the sum of all under-canopy initial bare-lamp outputs in lumens,
shall not exceed 40 lumens per square foot of canopy. All lighting mounted
under the canopy, including, but not limited to, luminaires mounted on the
lower surface or recessed into the lower surface of the canopy and any lighting
within signage or illuminated panels over the pumps, is to be included toward
the total at full lumen output.
         (a)   Fixtures installed such that all parts of the fixture are
located at least five feet, but less than ten feet, from the nearest edge of
the canopy are to be included in the total outdoor light output as though they
produced only one-quarter of the lamp’s rated lumen output.
         (b)   Fixtures installed such that all parts of the fixture are
located ten or more feet from the nearest edge of a canopy are to be included
in the total outdoor light output as though they produced only one-tenth of the
lamp’s rated lumen output.
   (B)   Outdoor recreational facilities.
      (1)   Lighting class. Lighting for field/track/arena areas only shall be
considered Class 1.
      (2)   Lumen cap exemption. Lighting for field/track/arena areas only is
not subject to the lumens per acre limit set in §
17.5(C).
      (3)   Shielding. Fixtures used for field/track/ arena areas must be fully
shielded.
      (4)   Curfew. No such facility shall be illuminated after the curfew
times listed here except to conclude a scheduled recreational or sporting event
in progress prior to the curfew, and prevented from concluding before the
curfew by unforeseeable circumstances.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.8  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Airports. Airport navigation lighting systems and other airport
lighting required by the Federal Aviation Administration and/or the state are
exempt from the provisions of this zoning code. All other lighting at airports,
including that used for loading areas, hangars, terminal aprons, parking areas
and the like shall conform to all applicable standards of this zoning code.
   (B)   Holiday decorations. Low-wattage holiday decorations are exempt from
the provisions of this zoning code from November 11 through February 8 and for
a period of two weeks before and after any national holiday. Such lighting and
all associated wiring used outdoors must be certified for outdoor use by
Underwriters Laboratories.
   (C)   Street lamps. Street lamps installed in the public right-of-way and
with the approval of the Town  Council are exempt from lumens per net acre
standards of §
17.5(C), but must adhere to all other standards including, but not limited to,
the lamp type and shielding standards of §
17.5(B).
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.9  TEMPORARY LIGHTING PERMITS.
   (A)   Findings. The Town Manager may grant a permit for temporary lighting
if he or she finds the following:
      (1)   The purpose for which the lighting is proposed is not intended to
extend beyond 30 days;
      (2)   The proposed lighting is designed in such a manner as to minimize
light pollution as much as is feasible;
      (3)   The proposed lighting will comply with the general intent of this
zoning code; and
      (4)   The permit will be in the public interest.
   (B)   Application contents. The application for the temporary lighting
permit shall include the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of applicant and property owner;
      (2)   Location of proposed fixtures;
      (3)   Type, wattage and lumen output of lamp(s);
      (4)   Type, shielding and use of proposed fixtures;
      (5)   Intended use of the lighting;
      (6)   Duration of time for requested exemption;
      (7)   The nature of the exemption; and
      (8)   Such other information as the Town Manager may request.
   (C)   Ruling. The Town Manager shall endeavor to rule on the application
within five business days from the date of submission of the request and notify
the applicant in writing of his or her decision. TheTown Manager may grant one
renewal of the permit for an additional 30 days if he or she finds that,
because of an unanticipated change in circumstances, a renewal would be in the
public interest. The Town Manager is not authorized to grant more than one
temporary permit and one renewal for the same property within one calendar
year. A denial by the Town Manager may be appealed to the Planning and Zoning
Commission within 30 days.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.10  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Mercury vapor. Mercury vapor lamps are not allowed in use for outdoor
lighting after the effective date of this zoning code.
   (B)   Bottom-mounted sign lighting. Bottom- mounted outdoor advertising sign
lighting shall not be used after the effective date of this zoning code.
   (C)   Pre-existing non-conforming lighting. No outdoor lighting fixture
which was lawfully installed prior to the enactment of this zoning code shall
be required to be removed or modified, except as expressly provided herein;
however, no modification or replacement shall be made to a non-conforming
fixture unless the fixture thereafter conforms to the provisions of this zoning
code.
   (D)   Conformance after abandonment/damage. In the event that an outdoor
lighting fixture is abandoned or is damaged to the point of requiring repairs
for safe operation, the repaired or replacement fixture shall comply with the
provisions of this zoning code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.11  VARIANCES.
   Any person desiring to install an outdoor lighting fixture in violation of
this zoning code may apply to the Hearing Officer for a variance from the
regulation in question. Such variances shall be allowed due to special
circumstances applicable to the subject property and where a literal
application or enforcement of the regulations would result in practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship and the relief granted would not be contrary
to the public interest but do substantial justice and be in accordance with the
spirit of the regulations and this zoning code; provided that, any variance may
be allowed, subject to any reasonable conditions that the Hearing Officer may
deem necessary to effectuate the purpose of this section.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 17.12  PERMITS AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN REVIEWS.
   (A)   Non-single or two-family residential lighting.
      (1)   Permit required. Whenever a person plans to install outdoor
lighting, an outdoor lighting permit must be applied for and granted. The
applicant shall, as a part of said application, submit sufficient information
to enable a determination as to whether the proposed lighting will comply with
this zoning code.
      (2)   Application contents. The application shall include the following:
         (a)   A site plan indicating any existing lighting fixtures and the
proposed location of all new outdoor lighting fixtures, indicating which of the
existing fixtures, if any, are to be retained and which, if any, removed;
         (b)   A description of each illuminating device, fixture, lamp,
support and shield. This description may include, but is not limited to,
manufacturer’s catalog cuts and drawings (including sections where required),
lamp types and lumen outputs. For existing lighting, photographs of the
fixtures will be accepted if original manufacturer’s information is not
available; and
         (c)   Such other information as may be necessary to determine
compliance with this zoning code.
      (3)   Permit issuance. If the Town Manager or representative of the Town
Manager acting on behalf of the town determines that the proposed lighting does
not comply with this zoning code, the permit shall not be issued or the plan
approved.
   (B)   Single- and two-family residential lighting. Lighting on single-family
and two-family residential sites will be reviewed on-site, and compliance with
this zoning code verified before issuance of the certificate of occupancy. A
lighting permit separate from the building permit is not required.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 18:  LANDSCAPING
Section
   
18.1   Purpose and scope
   
18.2   Conflicting regulations
   
18.3   Definitions
   
18.4   General provisions
   
18.5   Landscape plan requirements
   
18.6   Preservation of existing vegetation
   
18.7   Standard plant units
   
18.8   Parking lot landscaping
   
18.9   Buffer and screen landscaping
   
18.10   Site landscaping
   
18.11   Installation and maintenance
   
18.12   Modification to landscaping standards
§ 18.1  PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to establish landscaping standards and
guidelines in order to maintain and enhance the environmental qualities of the
town; to mitigate the impacts of adjacent uses; and to enhance the quality and
appearance of new or existing development in the town.
   (B)   By requiring adequate and environmentally compatible landscaping, the
visual quality of the environment will be enhanced, and other environmental
qualities will be improved by promoting conservation of water used for
landscaping, addressing wildfire safety concerns, providing erosion and storm
water runoff control, providing control of noxious weeds and invasive plants,
requiring native plants and encouraging the preservation of existing trees and
vegetation.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.2  CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   In the event of conflict between the regulations set forth in this section
and any other regulations applicable to the same area, the more stringent
requirement shall govern.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.3  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this zoning code, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise,
certain words and phrases shall mean the following.
   CALIPER. The diameter of a tree trunk measured four and one-half feet above
the ground. Also known as DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (DBH).
   CONIFER. A plant that produces cones such as a plant belonging to the family
Coniferae, such as pines, cypresses, junipers and cedars.
   DECIDUOUS. A plant that loses its leaves annually at the end of the growing
season.
   DEFENSIBLE SPACE. The area between a structure and a potential oncoming
wildfire where the vegetation has been modified to reduce the wildfire threat
and which provides an opportunity to effectively defend the structure. This is
also known as SURVIVABLE SPACE.
   DRIP LINE. An area around the tree trunk that generally includes the spread
of the tree branches. Italso may refer to that area around a structure that is
beneath the roof overhang.
   DROUGHT TOLERANT. Non-native species that can survive extended periods of
time with little or no water.
   EVERGREEN. A plant that retains its needles or leaves all year long,
although losing some of the older leaves regularly throughout the year.
   GROUND COVER. Low growing plant materials intended to spread over the
ground, and which typically grow to a height of two and one-half feet or less.
Also, organic or inorganic materials such as bark, crushed rock, cinders or
other similar materials typically use in landscaped areas between plantings.
   INVASIVE SPECIES. An alien (non-native) species whose introduction does or
is likely to cause economic or environmental harm or harm to human health and
which tend to disrupt natural ecosystems by displacing native species.
   LANDSCAPE AREA. The part of the property exclusively set aside for living
plant materials and associated non-living ornamental materials such as mulch,
fencing, walls or decorative rock.
   NATIVE PLANTS. Plant species occurring naturally and native to a given
ecosystem or plant community.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Plant species designated as such by the Secretary of
Agriculture, Secretary of the Interior or by state law or regulation.
Generally, NOXIOUS WEEDS will possess one or more of the characteristics of
being aggressive and difficult to manage, parasitic, a carrier or host of
serious insects or disease, and being non-native or new to or not common to the
United States or parts thereof. NOXIOUS WEED species have extensive and costly
impacts on human health, safety, commerce, recreation and general well-being.
NOXIOUS WEEDS can adversely affect food production, wilderness values, wildlife
habitat, visual quality, forage production, reforestation, recreational
opportunities, natural wildfire regimes and land values.
   PLANT UNIT. A method of identifying landscaping requirements. Alternative
plant units are set forth in §
18.7.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.4  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All landscaped areas shall be permanently maintained in a neat and
orderly manner and all plants shall be maintained in a healthy, living
condition. Dead plants, weeds and non-plant materials must be removed and
replaced as necessary.
   (B)   All landscaped areas shall be provided with a permanent means of
irrigation pursuant to §
18.5(A)(2)(e).
   (C)   In all areas of the town, the required landscaping materials are
native plants as defined by the Native Plants for Northern Arizona Landscapes
compiled by The Arboretum at Flagstaff. The use of specifically identified
invasive species and noxious weeds is prohibited.
   (D)   All portions of a site where existing vegetative cover is damaged or
removed, or consists primarily of weeds, and are not otherwise covered with new
improvements, must be successfully re-vegetated with a substantial mix of
native and/or drought tolerant grasses and ground covers. The density of the
reestablished vegetation must be adequate to prevent soil erosion and invasion
of weeds after one growing season.
   (E)   All required landscaping must be located on the property it serves.
Elements such as plants, walls, fences, buffering and screening located on
adjacent properties or public rights-of-way shall not count toward the
landscaping requirements.
   (F)   Additional landscaping may be established in public rights-of-way with
the approval of the appropriate jurisdiction (i.e., ADOT or the town).
   (G)   Retention of existing native vegetation and natural features is
encouraged. Special consideration may be given to developments which retain
existing trees, vegetation and natural features of the site where possible and
which are replaced and enhanced when necessary.
   (H)   All landscape design shall take into consideration the need for
defensible space.
   (I)   Lighting used in the landscape plan must comply with the provisions of
§
17 of this zoning code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.5  LANDSCAPE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Landscape plan required.
      (1)   An approved landscape plan is required prior to any site clearing
for any use other than single- family and two-family residential. A landscape
plan designed in accordance with this section shall be provided for all new
development and redevelopment, except for single-family and two-family
residential. The landscape plan shall be prepared by a landscape architect, a
professional landscape designer or a plant nursery, unless a waiver is approved
by the Town Manager. Additions to an existing building, or substantial
improvements comprising 25% of the value of the building prior to the
improvements, as determined by the Town Manager or designee, shall prompt
compliance with these requirements for that portion of the site affected by the
improvements. Additions to an existing building, or substantial improvements
comprising over 50% of the value of the building prior to the improvements, as
determined by the Town Manager or designee, shall prompt compliance with these
requirements for the entire site. In calculating the amount of landscaping
required, credit will be given for existing landscaping that meets the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   The plan shall include the following:
         (a)   A site plan providing sufficient detail to evaluate the features
of landscaping and irrigation required by this section. The site plan shall
show the location of property lines, proposed contours, drainage structures,
existing and proposed development including all  buildings, parking, pedestrian
and circulation areas. If phased development is proposed, the phasing plan
shall be identified. The plan shall show the location of all proposed
landscaped areas, and the dimensions and total area (in square feet) for each
interior parking lot landscaped area;
         (b)   The location, design and materials of all landscape areas
including planting strips along all streets, earth berms, retaining walls,
fences, water features, retention areas, trash enclosures, lighting and paved
areas. Where fencing is used for required screening, a scaled elevation drawing
of the fence must be included;
         (c)   The location, size and type of all proposed plant and non-plant
materials, including any existing vegetation to be retained and existing trees
over six-inch caliper proposed to be removed;
         (d)   A chart comparing the landscaping requirements to the proposed
materials and area covered, including, but not limited to, the following
information:
            1.   Total parking lot and circulation areas, including interior
drives and driveways (in square feet);
            2.   Total number of parking stalls required and total provided;
            3.   Total parking lot landscaped area required and total provided
(in square feet);
            4.   Total buffer and screen landscaped area required and total
provided (in square feet);
            5.   Total site landscaped area required and total provided (in
square feet);
            6.   Total quantity and size of plant material required and the
total provided;
            7.   Size, type and quantity of non-plant material to be provided;
and
            8.   Any other information as the town staff may determine is
necessary to ensure compliance with this zoning code.
         (e)   All landscape plans must provide an irrigation plan. Irrigation
systems shall be designed to maximize efficient water use and minimize the
waste of water. An automatic irrigation system designed to provide efficient
irrigation coverage is required.
            1.   The irrigation system should be designed to correlate to the
organization of plants into zones with similar watering requirements.
            2.   The use of treated effluent is required, a collection system
to capture runoff and other alternatives for irrigation purposes are
encouraged.
            3.   A waiver from the automatic irrigation system requirement and/
or the requirement to use treated effluent may be approved by the Town Manager,
who shall consult with the Sanitary District in making his or her decision. If
an alternative means of watering is proposed, a specific plan must be provided.
   (B)   Preferred materials.
      (1)   All landscape plans must use native plant materials appropriate for
their location. Invasive plants and noxious weeds are prohibited. Required
landscaping materials are native plants as defined by the Native Plants for
Northern Arizona Landscapes compiled by The Arboretum at Flagstaff. A detailed
plant list shall be included with all plans. The list shall include both the
botanical and common names.
      (2)   If turf areas are included, they must use a sod or seed mix
specifically cultivated to thrive in the conditions present at the particular
site. The use of non-native and/or high water consumptive turf such as Kentucky
Blue Grass is prohibited. The applicant must provide information regarding the
composition of a sod or seed mix as part of the detailed plant list as
required.
      (3)   Rock material used in landscaping shall be subordinate to and not a
substitute for plant material. When used, rock material must be compatible and
appropriate.
      (4)   The use of artificial trees, shrubs, turf or plants shall not be
permitted as landscaping.
   (C)   Design.
      (1)   Plants should be grouped in strategic areas and not spread thinly
around the site.
      (2)   Trees must be planted to allow for maximum growth in height and
shape without the need for pruning in excess of that required to maintain the
health of the plant.
      (3)   New vegetation shall be selected, planted and maintained so that at
maturity it will not interfere with utility lines, snow storage areas,
vehicular parking, pedestrian circulation, traffic sight visibility at
driveways and street intersections, and will not cause damage and upheaval of
sidewalks and pavement.
      (4)   All landscape designs shall take into consideration the need for
defensible space.
      (5)   All landscaped areas shall incorporate a ground cover to tie the
landscaping together and to discourage weed growth.
      (6)   A mix of deciduous and evergreen plant materials shall be used to
provide a year-round effect.
      (7)   A clear sight triangle shall be maintained at all street
intersections and driveway entrances. Such clear sight triangle shall be
determined by measuring 25 feet along each property line at street
intersections, and along the property line and the driveway for driveway
entrances. Landscape materials in this area shall have a clear trunk height of
six feet from grade level; mature shrubs, groundcover or other materials shall
not exceed three feet in height from grade level.
   (D)   Plan not approved. If the Town Manager or designee determines that the
proposed landscaping does not comply with this zoning code, the plan will not
be approved.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.6  PRESERVATION OF EXISTING VEGETATION.
   (A)   The preservation of healthy existing trees and shrubs shall be
provided wherever possible. These trees and shrubs must be shown on the
landscape plan and labeled as “existing”. They must also be listed on the plant
list with their current size shown.
   (B)   All landscape plans must identify methods for protecting existing
vegetation that will remain. Construction materials and debris may not be
stockpiled within one and one-half times the drip line perimeter outside the
drip line of all trees and shrubs being retained. This protection area must be
clearly marked with temporary fencing or similar material.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.7  STANDARD PLANT UNITS.
   (A)   All landscaping requirements are stated in terms of the number of
standard plant units required. This section defines three alternative plant
units. All landscaping shall conform to one or more of the plant unit
alternatives of this section.
   (B)   The following table specifies plant unit alternatives. In general, the
three alternative plant mixes are interchangeable. In some instances, the
Director of Community Development may require the use of a specific plant unit
to achieve a particular result.
Plant Unit Alternatives Quantity Required Type and Size at Time of Installation
Plant Unit Alternatives Quantity Required Type and Size at Time of Installation
                        3                 8 feet high evergreen trees
Alternative A           10                2 feet high shrubs (or 5-gallon
                                          minimum)
                        2                 6 feet high evergreen trees
                        1                 3-inch caliper deciduous tree
Alternative B                             (minimum 10-foot to 12-foot height)*
                        4                 2 feet high shrubs (or 5-gallon
                                          minimum)
                        1                 3-inch caliper deciduous tree
                                          (minimum 8-foot to 10-foot height)
Alternative C           2                 1-1/2-inch caliper deciduous trees
                                          (minimum 6-foot to 8-foot height)
                        14                2 feet high shrubs (or 5-gallon
                                          minimum)
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Clump or cluster planting which will achieve a total diameter of 4 inches may
be considered in lieu of a 3-inch caliper tree.
 
   (C)   When applied through the zoning code, and where the resulting number
of required plant units is expressed in a fraction, the required number of
plant units shall be rounded off to the nearest whole number (rounding is done
at the end of calculations).
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.8  PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Landscaping shall be proportionally distributed throughout parking and
driveway areas, including the perimeter and interior of the parking area. Where
islands are required or provided, they shall be landscaped.
   (B)   Parking lot landscaping shall be provided according to the following
table.
 
Parking Spaces Minimum Landscaped Area Required Min. Plant Units
0-5            none                             none
6-20           324 square feet                  1 unit
21-32          27 square feet/space             2 units
33-44          27 square feet/space             3 units
45+            40 square feet/space             3+units1
NOTES TO TABLE:
Note 1 - The number of plant units required shall be pro-rated for parking
lots over 44 spaces at the rate of 1 plant unit per 324 square feet of
landscaped area.
 
      (1)   Where parking lots are adjacent to side or rear property lines, a
minimum five-foot wide perimeter strip of landscaping shall be provided.
      (2)   All landscaped areas adjacent to vehicular parking and access shall
be protected by six-inch vertical concrete curbing, six-inch bumper stops or
similar materials in order to control storm water flows and minimize damage by
vehicular traffic.
      (3)   The curb or barrier around landscaped areas may be utilized as a
wheel stop provided the area of vehicle overhang does not exceed two and one-
half feet and does not damage or interfere with the landscaping. A minimum
five-foot wide planter is required for a single vehicle overhang and an eight-
foot wide planter for a double vehicle overhang.
      (4)   Parking, buildings and display or storage of equipment of vehicles
is not permitted in required landscaped areas.
      (5)   To ensure that landscape materials do not constitute a driving
hazard, trees used to landscape parking islands shall have a clear trunk height
of six feet from grade level; mature shrubs, groundcover or other landscaping
material shall not exceed three feet in height from grade level.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.9  BUFFER AND SCREEN LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   All required front and street side landscape areas shall be fully
landscaped in accordance with a minimum of one plant unit for every 100 lineal
feet of frontage. In areas where greater buffer or screening is desirable,
additional plant units may be required by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Where detention basins and/or drainageways are constructed partially
or entirely within setback areas or other high-visibility areas on sites, they
must be adequately landscaped. A minimum of two plant units shall be required
for every 100 feet of the perimeter of the basin, measured at the top of the
basin. All detention basin surfaces shall be treated with a native groundcover
seed mix or lawn mix as required. River rock or similar non-plant alternative
may be allowed, subject to the approval of the town staff.
   (C)   (1)   Where landscape screening is required by the zoning code or
through Commission or Town Council action, such landscaping shall be in
addition to the general landscaping requirements.
      (2)   Required fences and walls adjacent to public roads and highways
shall have a unifying theme and provide variation by using changes in height,
different material combinations, offset angles, articulation and/or plant
materials.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.10  SITE LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   In addition to the required buffer and screen landscaping and parking
lot landscaping, the building site shall include landscaping designed to
visually integrate the structure(s) with the site.
      (1)   The site landscaping shall include one plant unit for every 100
lineal feet of perimeter of the building foot print, and located within 50 feet
of, and adjacent to, the perimeter of the building. In situations where the use
or building design makes planting within 50 feet impractical, such as mini
storage warehousing, it may be permitted to place some or all of their on-site
building landscaping beyond the 50- foot limit, subject to the approval of the
town staff.
      (2)   If phasing is proposed, or if only a portion of the parcel is being
developed, the undeveloped area shall be maintained in existing native plants.
If the area has been disturbed or the existing vegetation consists primarily of
weeds, the area must be successfully re-vegetated with a substantial mix of
native grasses and ground covers. The density of the re-established vegetation
must be adequate to prevent soil erosion and invasion of weeds after one
growing season.
   (B)   For manufactured home parks or multi- family developments, one plant
unit per single residential unit or lot is required.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.11  INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Landscaping and irrigation devices shall be installed in
accordance with the approved landscape plan prior to issuance of a certificate
of occupancy or commencement of the use.
      (2)   If approved landscaping and irrigation cannot be installed prior to
occupancy or commencement of the use, a temporary certificate of occupancy may
be issued upon posting of an approved financial assurance based on a
contractor’s estimate for completing the work, plus 10% contingency.
      (3)   The work shall be completed prior to the end of the next planting
season.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the property and/or business owner to
maintain the site as approved and provide for replacement of plant materials
that have died or otherwise been damaged or removed, and maintenance of all
landscape materials including, but not limited to, fencing, paving, rocks and
retaining walls.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 18.12  MODIFICATION TO LANDSCAPING STANDARDS.
   The Town Manager may grant minor modifications to the standards set forth in
this section if it is determined that:
   (A)   The strict application of these standards is not possible due to
existing physical conditions;
   (B)   The modification is consistent with the purpose of this section; and
   (C)   The modification is the minimum modification that would afford relief
and would be the least modification of the applicable provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 19:  NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS
Section
   
19.0   Purposes
   
19.1   Definitions
   
19.2   Continuation of non-conforming situations
   
19.3   Completion of non-conforming projects
   
19.4   Non-conforming lots
   
19.5   Non-conforming signs
   
19.6   Non-conforming mobile homes and mobile home parks
   
19.7   Extension or enlargement of non- conforming situations
   
19.8   Repair, maintenance and reconstruction
   
19.9   Change in use of property where a non-conforming situation exists
   
19.10   Non-conforming uses authorized by conditional use permits
   
19.11   Abandonment and discontinuance of non-conforming situations
§ 19.0  PURPOSES.
   (A)   This section is intended to limit the number and extent of non-
conforming situations by prohibiting or limiting their enlargement, their
reestablishment after abandonment and the alteration or restoration after
destruction.
   (B)   The overall purpose is the gradual elimination of non-conforming uses
or conversion to conforming uses in order to further the goals of the  Tusayan
Area Plan and this zoning code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.1  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this zoning code, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise,
certain words and phrases shall mean the following.
   NON-CONFORMING SITUATION. A situation that occurs when, on the effective
date of adoption of this zoning code or a previous ordinance or on the
effective date of a zoning ordinance text amendment or a zoning map change, an
existing lot or structure or use of an existing lot or structure does not
conform to one or more of the regulations applicable to the district in which
the lot or structure is located. A NON-CONFORMING SITUATION may be any of the
following.
      (1)   NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot, the area or dimensions of which was
lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment of the zoning ordinance or
zoning map, but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment
to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
      (2)   NON-CONFORMING PROJECT. Any structure, development or undertaking
that is incomplete on the effective date of this zoning code or any amendment
thereto or any zoning map change which would be inconsistent with any
regulation applicable to the zone in which it is located if completed as
proposed or planned.
      (3)   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. Any sign lawfully existing on the effective
date of the zoning code or any amendment thereto which fails by reasonof such
adoption or amendment to conform to all standards and regulations of the zoning
code.
      (4)   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR BUILDING. A structure or building the
size, dimensions or location of which was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision or amendment of the zoning code, but which fails by reason of such
adoption, revision or amendment to conform to the present regulations
applicable to the zone in which the property is located.
      (5)   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use or activity which was lawful prior to the
adoption, revision or amendment of the zoning code or zoning map, but which is
unlawful by the use regulations applicable to the district in which the
property is located.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.2  CONTINUATION OF NON- CONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   Non-conforming situations that were lawful when created or established may
be continued.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.3  COMPLETION OF NON- CONFORMING PROJECTS.
   (A)   Non-conforming projects which have been approved or permitted before
the effective date of this zoning code or any amendment thereto or of any
zoning map change may be completed in accordance with the terms of their
permits, so long as these approvals or permits were validly issued and remain
unrevoked and unexpired.
   (B)   Non-conforming projects approved by conditional use permit shall be
allowed to be completed so long as the use is commenced or a building permit is
obtained within one year of approval.
   (C)   Applicable zoning regulations for a non- conforming project are those
in place at the time of a building permit application or at the time of
application for a zone change or conditional use permit.
   (D)   For projects designed to be completed in stages, construction may be
completed according to regulations in effect on the date of approval pursuant
to schedules of development approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission or
Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.4  NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Lots that were legally established and in conformance with the zoning
code when created shall be considered usable.
   (B)   When the use proposed for a non- conforming lot is one that conforms
in all other respects, but the applicable setback requirements cannot be
reasonably complied with, the Hearing Officer may grant variances from the
applicable setback requirements if it finds that:
      (1)   The property cannot reasonably be developed for the use proposed
without such variance;
      (2)   The variance is necessitated by the size and shape of the non-
conforming lot; and
      (3)   The property can be developed as proposed without any significantly
adverse impact on surrounding properties or the public health or safety.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, compliance with applicable
building setback requirements is not reasonably possible if a building that
serves the minimal needs of the use proposed for the non-conforming lot cannot
practicably be constructed and located on the lot in conformity with such
setback requirements. However, mere financial hardship does not constitute
grounds for finding that compliance is not reasonably possible.
   (D)   This section only applies to undeveloped non-conforming lots. A lot is
undeveloped if it has no substantial structures on it. A change in use of a
developed non-conforming lot may be accomplished in accordance with §
19.9.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.5  NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Subject to the remainder of this section, non- conforming signs that
were lawful when established may be continued.
   (B)   No non-conforming sign may be enlarged or altered in such a manner as
to increase the extent of the non-conformity nor may illumination be added to
any non-conforming sign.
   (C)   A non-conforming sign may not be moved or replaced except to bring the
sign into complete conformity with this zoning code.
   (D)   Restoration of a damaged sign may be accomplished in accordance with §
19.8.
   (E)   The message of a non-conforming sign may be changed so long as this
does not create any new non-conformities (for example, by creating an off-
premise sign where such sign would not be allowed).
   (F)   Routine maintenance and repairs may be done so long as the cost of
such work does not exceed 50% of the value of such sign within any 12-month
period.
   (G)   If a non-conforming sign advertises a business, service, commodity,
accommodation, attraction or other enterprise or activity that has not been
offered or conducted for a period of six months, that sign shall be considered
abandoned and shall be removed within 30 days after such abandonment. If the
business is resumed following the abandonment, all signs shall conform to this
zoning code.
   (H)   If a non-conforming billboard remains blank for a continuous period of
180 days, that billboard shall be deemed abandoned and shall be removed within
30 days after such abandonment. For the purpose of this section, a sign is
blank if:
      (1)   It advertises a business, service, commodity, accommodation,
attraction or other enterprise or activity that is no longer operating or being
offered or conducted;
      (2)   The advertising message it displays becomes illegible in whole or
substantial part; or
      (3)   The advertising copy paid for by a party other than the sign owner
or promoting an interest other than the rental of the sign has been removed.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.6  NON-CONFORMING MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Within non-conforming mobile home parks, mobile homes may be replaced,
subject to the following.
      (1)   The total number of spaces in the mobile home park shall not be
increased over the number existing at the time the park became non- conforming.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum ten-foot front setback.
      (3)   There shall be a minimum ten-foot spacing between mobile homes.
      (4)   Setbacks around the perimeter of the park shall not be reduced from
those existing at the time the park became non-conforming.
   (B)   There shall be no expansion of a non- conforming mobile home park.
   (C)   Individual non-conforming mobile homes may not be replaced with other
non-conforming mobile homes. Minor additions or improvements, such as decks,
porches and cabanas with a cost up to 25% of the appraised value of the non-
conforming mobile home, are permitted.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.7  EXTENSION OR ENLARGEMENT OF NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise specifically allowed in this section, no increase
in the extent of non- conformity of a non-conforming situation is permitted. In
particular, no non-conforming use shall be enlarged or extended in such a way
as to occupy any part of the structure or site or another structure or site
which it did not occupy at the time it became a non-conforming use, or in such
a way as to displace any conforming use occupying a structure or site, except
as permitted in this section.
   (B)   No non-conforming use or structure shall be enlarged or extended so as
to increase the non- conformity with respect to setbacks, height, density or
number of units, distance between structures, parking or other requirements
such as performance standards.
   (C)   Extension of hours or seasons of use, addition of new uses and changes
in character of the non-conforming use are considered to be extensions and are
not permitted.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.8  REPAIR, MAINTENANCE AND RECONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Minor repairs and routine maintenance of property where non-conforming
situations exist are permitted and encouraged. Major renovation (i.e., work
estimated to cost more than 25% of the appraised value of the structure to be
renovated) may only be done with the granting of a conditional use permit. Cost
shall mean the fair market value of the materials and services necessary to
accomplish the repair or maintenance.
   (B)   If a structure located on a parcel where a non-conforming situation
exists is damaged to an extent of 50% or less of the appraised value of the
damaged structure, then it may be repaired and replaced and the non-conforming
use may be resumed, provided that restoration is started within one year and
diligently pursued to completion. For damaged non-conforming signs, restoration
must be initiated within three months and completed within six months. If the
damage exceeds 50% or the structure is voluntarily razed or is required by law
to be razed, the structure shall not be restored except in full conformity with
the regulations for the zone in which it is located, and the non-conforming use
shall not be resumed. Structure, as used in this division (B), includes on-
premise signs and billboards. Non- conforming structures used for single-family
or two- family residential purposes, if damaged to an extent exceeding 50% may
be reconstructed and restored, subject to the granting of a conditional use
permit.
   (C)   For the purpose of division (B) above, the extent of damage shall be
based on the ratio of the estimated cost of restoring the structure to its
condition prior to such damage or partial destruction to the estimated cost of
duplicating the entire structure as it existed prior to the damage. Estimates
for this purpose shall be reviewed and approved by the Town Manager or designee
and shall be based on the minimum cost of construction in compliance with
adopted building codes.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.9  CHANGE IN USE OF PROPERTY WHERE A NON-CONFORMING SITUATION EXISTS.
   (A)   A change in use of property where a non- conforming situation exists
to a principal use that is permissible in the zone in which the property is
located shall be accomplished in the same manner as establishing the use on a
vacant lot. Once conformity with this zoning code is achieved, the property may
not revert to its non-conforming status.
   (B)   If the change is to a permissible use, but all requirements of this
zoning code (for example, property development and performance standards)
cannot be met then the change may be allowed, subject to the Hearing Officer
granting a variance for the waivers. In addition to other findings required for
a variance, the Hearing Officer must find that:
      (1)   The change will not result in a violation of §
19.7; and
      (2)   All of the requirements that can reasonably be met will be met.
Compliance is not reasonably possible if compliance cannot be achieved without
the addition of land or without moving a substantial structure that is on a
permanent foundation. Mere financial hardship related to such requirements as
paving a parking lot may not constitute grounds for granting a variance.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.10  NON-CONFORMING USES AUTHORIZED BY CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Uses approved by conditional use permit which have become non-
conforming because of a zoning ordinance text amendment or a zoning map change
may continue until the expiration date of the permit.
   (B)   At that time, the Planning and Zoning Commission may grant a use
permit for renewal if all of the original conditions of approval have been met,
even if the use is no longer a permitted or conditional use in the zoning
district in which the property is located.
   (C)   The Commission may impose reasonable improvements to bring the
property into closer conformity or to mitigate the use.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 19.11  ABANDONMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF NON-CONFORMING SITUATIONS.
   Whenever a non-conforming use has been discontinued, or changed to a
conforming use, for a consecutive period of 180 days, use of the structure or
site thereafter shall be in conformity with the regulations for the zone in
which the property is located.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 20:  ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
20.1   Determination as to uses not listed
      
20.1-1   Purpose and initiation
      
20.1-2   Application
      
20.1-3   Investigation and report
      
20.1-4   Determination
      
20.1-5   Appeal to Town Council
      
20.1-6   Determination by Town Council
   
20.2   Citizen participation
      
20.2-1   Purposes
      
20.2-2   Citizen participation plan
      
20.2-3   Citizen participation report
   
20.3   Conditional uses
      
20.3-1   Purposes
      
20.3-2   Application: data and maps to be furnished
      
20.3-3   Fee
      
20.3-4   Public hearing
      
20.3-5   Investigation and report
      
20.3-6   Action of the Planning and Zoning Commission
      
20.3-7   Findings
      
20.3-8   Effective date of the use permit
      
20.3-9   Appeal to Town Council
      
20.3-10   Determination by the Town Council
      
20.3-11   Lapse of conditional use permit
      
20.3-12   Pre-existing conditional uses
      
20.3-13   Modification of conditional use
      
20.3-14   Suspension and revocation
      
20.3-15   New applications
      
20.3-16   Use permit to run with the land
      
20.3-17   Use permit and change of zone filed concurrently
   
20.4   Amendments
      
20.4-1   Purpose
      
20.4-2   Initiation
      
20.4-3   Conformity with Tusayan Area Plan
      
20.4-4   Application: data and maps to be furnished
      
20.4-5   Fee
      
20.4-6   Public hearing
      
20.4-7   Investigation and report
      
20.4-8   Public hearing procedure
      
20.4-9   Action by the Planning and Zoning Commission
      
20.4-10   Alternate classification in lieu of proposed classification
      
20.4-11   Action by the Town Council
      
20.4-12   New application
      
20.4-13   Conditional zoning
      
20.4-14   Change of zone accompanied by a subdivision plat
   
20.5   Public hearing time and notice
   
20.6   Appeals: Town Council review
      
20.6-1   Appeal of decision of Planning and Zoning Commission
      
20.6-2   Fee
      
20.6-3   Town Council action on appeal
   
20.7   Variances and appeals
      
20.7-1   Purposes and authorization
      
20.7-2   Application: data and maps to be furnished
      
20.7-3   Fees
      
20.7-4   Public hearing
      
20.7-5   Investigation and report
      
20.7-6   Action by the Hearing Officer
      
20.7-7   Findings
      
20.7-8   Signs: additional findings
      
20.7-9   Parking: additional findings
      
20.7-10   Appeals of decisions by Hearing Officer
      
20.7-11   Effective date of variance
      
20.7-12   Lapse of variance
      
20.7-13   Revocation
      
20.7-14   New application
      
20.7-15   Variance related to plans submitted
   
20.8   Board of Adjustment
      
20.8-1   Purpose and authority
      
20.8-2   Membership
      
20.8-3   Term of office
      
20.8-4   Organization of the Board of Adjustment
      
20.8-5   Grant of authority
      
20.8-6   Appeals of Board of Adjustment decision
   
20.9   Zoning Administrator
      
20.9-1   Establishment and purpose
   
20.10   Adjustments
      
20.10-1   Purpose and authority
      
20.10-2   Application: data and maps to be furnished
      
20.10-3   Fees
      
20.10-4   Findings
      
20.10-5   Site area: additional findings
      
20.10-6   Decision of Town Manager
   
20.11   Animal husbandry activities or projects
§ 20.1  DETERMINATION AS TO USES NOT LISTED.
§ 20.1-1  PURPOSE AND INITIATION.
   (A)   In order to ensure that the zoning regulations will permit all similar
uses in each zone, the Planning and Zoning Commission, upon its own initiative
or upon written request shall determine whether a use not specifically listed
as a permitted or conditional use in any zone shall be deemed a permitted use
or a conditional use in any one or more zones on the basis of similarity to
uses specifically listed.
   (B)   The procedures of this section shall not be substituted for the
amendment procedure as a means of adding new uses to the list of permitted or
conditional uses.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.1-2  APPLICATION.
   Application for determination of similar uses shall be made in writing to
the Town Manager or designee and shall include a detailed description of the
proposed use and such other information as may be required by the Town Manager
or designee to facilitate the determination.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.1-3  INVESTIGATION AND REPORT.
   The Town Manager or designee shall make such investigations of the
application as necessary to compare the nature and characteristics of the
proposed use with those uses specifically listed and shall make a report of his
or her findings to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.1-4  DETERMINATION.
   The determination of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be final 15
days from the date of the decision unless an appeal is filed.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.1-5  APPEAL TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   A decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission may be appealed within 15
days to the Town Council by the applicant or any other person, as prescribed in
§
20.6, Appeals: Town Council Review, or by any member of the Town Council
without fee.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.1-6  DETERMINATION BY TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall make a determination as prescribed in §
20.6-3, Town Council Action on Appeal, if an appeal has been filed within the
prescribed 15-day appeal period. The decision of the Town Council shall be
final.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.2  CITIZEN PARTICIPATION.
§ 20.2-1  PURPOSES.
   In order to maximize the opportunity for citizen involvement in the rezoning
and conditional use permit process that is described in the following sections,
and to resolve any neighborhood issues at an early stage in the process, the
following requirements shall be included in the public hearing process.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.2-2  CITIZEN PARTICIPATION PLAN.
   (A)   Every zone change and conditional use permit application shall include
a citizen participation plan that must be implemented prior to the first public
hearing.
   (B)   The purpose of the citizen participation plan is to achieve the
following:
      (1)   Ensure that applicants pursue early and effective citizen
participation in conjunction with their applications, giving them the
opportunity to understand and try to mitigate any real or perceived impacts
their application may have on the community or on the neighborhood;
      (2)   Ensure that the citizens and property owners of Tusayan have an
adequate opportunity to learn about applications that may affect them and to
work with applicants to resolve concerns at an early stage of the process; and
      (3)   Facilitate ongoing communication between the applicant, interested
citizens and property owners, town staff and elected officials throughout the
application review process.
   (C)   The citizen participation plan is not intended to produce complete
consensus on all applications, but to encourage applicants to be good neighbors
and to allow for informed decision making.
   (D)   At a minimum, the citizen participation plan shall include the
following:
      (1)   Which residents, property owners, interested parties and public and
private agencies may be affected by the application;
      (2)   How those interested in and potentially affected by an application
will be notified that an application has been made;
      (3)   How those interested and potentially affected parties will be
informed of the substance of the zone change, amendment or development proposed
by the application;
      (4)   How those interested and affected parties will be provided an
opportunity to discuss the applicant’s proposal with the applicant and express
any concerns, issues or problems they may have with the proposal in advance of
the public hearing;
      (5)   The applicant’s schedule for completion of the citizen
participation plan; and
      (6)   How the applicant will keep the town staff informed on the status
of citizen participation efforts.
   (E)   Applicants must conduct a neighborhood community meeting prior to
submitting an application for a zone change or a conditional use permit.
      (1)   The meeting must be conducted in the general vicinity of the
property involved in the application. The meeting serves as a forum for
information exchange between applicants and affected members of the public.
      (2)   An applicant may make a written request and receive a written
determination whether, due solely to impractical circumstances, the requirement
for a community meeting should be waived by the Town Manager. At a minimum the
request must explain why the applicant’s citizen participation plan provides
other adequate, alternative opportunities for citizens to express any concerns,
problems or issues they may have with the proposal in advance of the public
hearing. The Town Manager shall make  his or her determination a part of the
written record in the case.
   (F)   The level of citizen interest and area of involvement will vary
depending on the nature of the application and the location of the site. The
target area for notification will be determined by the applicant after
consultation with town staff. At a minimum, the target area shall include the
following:
      (1)   Property owners within the public hearing notice area required by
other sections of this ordinance;
      (2)   The head of any property owners’ association within the notice area
required by other sections of this zoning code;
      (3)   Other potentially affected property owners outside of the legal
notice area as determined by town staff; and
      (4)   Other interested parties who have requested that they be placed on
a list of interested parties maintained by the town staff.
   (G)   These requirements apply in addition to any notice provisions required
elsewhere in this zoning code.
   (H)   (1)   The applicant may submit a citizen participation plan and begin
implementation prior to formal application at his, her or their discretion.
      (2)   This shall not occur until after a pre-application meeting and
consultation with town staff.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.2-3  CITIZEN PARTICIPATION REPORT.
   (A)   This section applies only when a citizen participation plan is
required by this zoning code.
   (B)   The applicant shall provide a written report on the results of his,
her or their citizen participation effort prior to the notice of public
hearing. This report shall be attached to the staff report submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   At a minimum, the citizen participation report shall include the
following information:
      (1)   Details of the techniques the applicant used to involve the public,
including:
         (a)   Dates and locations of all meetings where citizens were invited
to discuss the applicant’s proposal;
         (b)   Content, dates mailed and numbers of mailings, including
letters, meeting notices, newsletters and other publications;
         (c)   Where residents, property owners and interested parties
receiving notices, newsletters or other written materials are located;
         (d)   The number of people that participated in the process; and
         (e)   The percentage of those notified that participated in the
process.
      (2)   A summary of concerns, issues and problems expressed during the
process, including:
         (a)   The substance of the concerns, issues and problems;
         (b)   How the applicant has addressed or intends to address concerns,
issues and problems expressed during the process; and
         (c)   Concerns, issues and problems the applicant is unwilling or
unable to address and why.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3  CONDITIONAL USES.
§ 20.3-1  PURPOSES.
   In order to give the use regulations the flexibility necessary to achieve
the objectives of this section, in certain zones conditional uses are
permitted, subject to the granting of a conditional use permit. Because of
their unusual characteristics, conditional uses require special consideration
so that they may be located properly with respect to the objectives of the
zoning regulations and with respect to their effects on surrounding properties.
In order to achieve these purposes, the Planning and Zoning Commission is
empowered to grant and to deny applications for use permits for such
conditional uses in such zones as are prescribed in the zone regulations and to
impose reasonable conditions upon the granting of conditional use permits,
subject to the right of appeal to the Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-2  APPLICATION: DATA AND MAPS TO BE FURNISHED.
   Application for a conditional use permit shall be filed with the Town
Manager or designee on a form prescribed by the town and shall include the
following data and maps:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   Statement that the applicant is the plaintiff in any action in eminent
domain to acquire the property or the owner or the authorized agent of the
property on which the use is proposed to be located. This provision shall not
apply to a proposed public utility right-of-way;
   (C)   Address and legal description of the property;
   (D)   Statement indicating the precise manner of compliance with each of the
applicable provisions of this section, together with any other data pertinent
to the findings prerequisite to the granting of a use permit, prescribed in §
20.3-7;
   (E)   A list of all owners of property located within 300 feet of the
exterior boundaries of the subject property; the list shall be keyed to a map
showing the location of these properties;
   (F)   Plot plans and elevations, fully dimensioned, indicating the type and
location of all buildings and structures, parking and landscape areas and
signs. Elevation plans shall be of sufficient detail to indicate the type and
color of materials to be employed and methods of illumination for signs.
Screening, landscape and irrigation plans shall be included in the plans; and
   (G)   Plans and/or a preliminary report describing the proposed provisions
for storm drainage, sewage disposal and such other public improvements and
utilities as the Town Manager or designee may require in order to give a full
evaluation of the project.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-3  FEE.
   The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of
the Town Council to cover to cost of handling the application as prescribed in
this section.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-4  PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing on
each application for a conditional use permit. The hearing shall be set and
notice given as prescribed in §
20.5, Public Hearing Time and Notice. At the public hearing, the Commission
shall review the application and drawings submitted therewith and shall receive
pertinent evidence concerning the proposed use and the proposed conditions
under which it would be operated or maintained, particularly with respect to
the findings prescribed in §
20.3-7.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-5  INVESTIGATION AND REPORT.
   The Town Manager or designee shall make an investigation of the application
and shall prepare a report thereon which shall be submitted to the Planning and
Zoning Commission and made available to the applicant prior to the public
hearing.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-6  ACTION OF THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   Within 21 days following the closing of the public hearing on a conditional
use permit application, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall act on the
application. The Commission may grant, by resolution, a conditional use permit
as the permit was applied for or in modified form, or the application may be
denied. A conditional use permit may be revocable, may be granted for a limited
time period or may be granted, subject to such conditions as the Commission may
prescribe. Conditions may include, but shall not be limited to, drainage,
sewage, water and other utility requirements, requiring special yards, open
spaces, buffers, fences and walls; requiring installation and maintenance of
landscaping; requiring street dedications and improvements; regulation of
points of vehicular ingress and egress; regulation of traffic circulation;
regulation of signs; regulation of hours of operation and methods of operating;
control of potential nuisances; prescribing standards for maintenance of
buildings and grounds; prescription of development schedules and development
standards; and such other conditions as the Commission may deem necessary to
ensure compatibility of the use with surrounding developments and uses and to
preserve the public health, safety and welfare. The Commission may grant
waivers from the Zoning Ordinance in conjunction with the approval of a
conditional use permit for such property development standards and performance
standards as: fences, walls, screening and landscaping; site area; width and
depth; front, rear and side setbacks; lot coverage; height of structures;
distance between structures; usable open space; signs; off-street parking
facilities or parking lot standards; or frontage on a public street.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-7  FINDINGS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall make the following findings before
granting a conditional use permit:
   (A)   The proposed location of the conditional use is in accord with the
objectives of this zoning code and the purpose of the zone in which the site is
located;
   (B)   The proposed location of the conditional use and the conditions under
which it would be operated or maintained will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity;
   (C)   The proposed conditional use will comply with each of the applicable
provisions of this zoning code, except for approved variances; and
   (D)   The proposed conditional use is consistent with and conforms to the
goals, objectives and policies of the Tusayan Area Plan.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-8  EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE USE PERMIT.
   The decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be final 15 days
from the date of the decision and upon receipt by the Town Manager or designee
of a signed agreement to the conditions of approval, unless prior to the
expiration of said 15-day period an appeal has been filed with the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-9  APPEAL TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   A decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission may be appealed within 15
days to the Town Council by the applicant or any other person as prescribed in
§
20.6, Appeals: Town Council Review; or by appeal of an individual member of the
Town Council without fee.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-10  DETERMINATION BY THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall hold a public hearing on a conditional use permit as
prescribed in §
20.6-3 if an appeal has been filed within the prescribed 15-day appeal period.
The decision of the Town Council shall be final.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-11  LAPSE OF CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   A conditional use permit shall lapse and shall become void one year
following the date on which the use permit became effective, unless prior to
the expiration of one year, a building permit is issued and construction is
commenced and diligently pursued toward completion on the site which was the
subject of the use permit application, or a certificate of occupancy is issued
for the structure which was the subject of the use permit application, or the
site is occupied if no building permit or certificate of occupancy is required;
provided that, a use permit for a public utility installation may be valid for
a longer period if specified by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   A conditional use permit subject to lapse may be renewed; provided
that, prior to the expiration date, an application for renewal of the use
permit is filed with the Commission.
   (C)   The Planning and Zoning Commission may grant or deny an application
for renewal of a conditional use permit, subject to the modification of
existing conditions of approval and/or the addition of new conditions of
approval.
   (D)   A conditional use permit shall also lapse if the use for which the
permit is approved is terminated for a period of two years. Recommencement of
the use after the two-year period of inactivity shall require filing a new
application following the requirements and processes specified in §§
20.3-2 through 20.3-10.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-12  PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   A conditional use legally established prior to the effective date of
this zoning code or prior to the effective date of subsequent amendments to the
regulations or zone boundaries, shall be permitted to continue; provided that,
it is operated and maintained in accord with the conditions prescribed at the
time of its establishment, if any.
   (B)   Alteration or expansion of a pre-existing conditional use shall be
permitted only upon the granting of a use permit as prescribed in this section;
provided that, alterations not exceeding in value 25% of the valuation of the
existing use or building as determined by the town staff shall be permitted
without the granting of a conditional use permit.
   (C)   A conditional use permit shall be required for the reconstruction of a
structure housing a pre-existing conditional use if the structure is destroyed
by fire or other calamity, by act of God or by the public enemy to a greater
extent than 50%. The extent of damage or partial destruction shall be based
upon the ration of the estimated cost of restoring the structure to its
condition prior to such damage or partial destruction to the estimated cost of
duplicating the entire structure as it existed prior thereto. Estimates for
this purpose shall be made by or shall be reviewed and approved by the town
staff and shall be based on the minimum cost of construction in compliance with
the Building Code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-13  MODIFICATION OF CONDITIONAL USE.
   Sections 20.3-2 through 20.3-11 shall apply to an application for
modification, expansion or other change in a conditional use; provided that,
minor revisions or modifications may be approved by the Town Manager if he or
she determines that the changes would not affect the findings prescribed in §
20.3-7, Findings.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-14  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon violation of any applicable provision of this zoning code or, if
granted subject to conditions, upon failure to comply with conditions, a
conditional use permit shall be suspended automatically. The Planning and
Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing within 60 days, in accordance
with the procedure prescribed in §
20.3-4, Public Hearing, and if not satisfied that the regulation, general
provisions or conditions are being complied with, may revoke the conditional
use permit or take such action as may be necessary to ensure compliance with
the regulation, general provisions or condition.
   (B)   The decision shall become final 30 days following the date on which
the use permit was revoked unless an appeal has been filed within the
prescribed 15-day appeal period, in which case §
20.6-3, Town Council Action on Appeal, shall apply.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-15  NEW APPLICATIONS.
   Following the denial of a use permit application or the revocation of a use
permit, no application for a use permit for the same or substantially the same
use on the site shall be filed within one year from the date of denial or
revocation of the use permit.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-16  USE PERMIT TO RUN WITH THE LAND.
   A use permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this section shall run
with the land and shall continue to be valid upon a change in ownership of the
site or structure which was the subject of the use permit application.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.3-17  USE PERMIT AND CHANGE OF ZONE FILED CONCURRENTLY.
   (A)   Application for a conditional use permit may be made at the same time
as an application for a change in zone boundaries including the same property,
in which case the Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold the public hearing
on the zoning reclassification and the use permit at the same meeting and may
combine the two hearings.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the date of the Commission decision
on the use permit application shall be deemed to be the same as the date of
enactment by the Town Council of an ordinance changing the zone boundaries;
provided that, if the Town Council modifies a recommendation of the Commission
on a zoning reclassification, the use permit application shall be reconsidered
by the Commission in the same manner as a new application.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4  AMENDMENTS.
§ 20.4-1  PURPOSE.
   The zoning map and zoning regulations may be amended by changing the
boundaries of any zone or by changing any zone regulation or any other
provision of this zoning code in accord with the procedure prescribed in this
section.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-2  INITIATION.
   (A)   A change in the boundaries of any zone may be initiated by a property
owner or authorized agent of a property owner by filing an application for a
change in zone boundaries as prescribed in this section.
   (B)   A change in the boundaries of any zone or change in the regulations
may be initiated by the Planning and Zoning Commission or the Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-3  CONFORMITY WITH TUSAYAN AREA PLAN.
   An application for a change in zone classification which is not consistent
with the land use goals and policies as identified in the Tusayan Area Plan
shall not be processed until an amendment to the Tusayan Area Plan has been
filed, as prescribed in §
21, Tusayan Area Plan.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-4  APPLICATION: DATA AND MAPS TO BE FURNISHED.
   A property owner desiring to propose a change in the boundaries of the zone
in which his or her property is located, or his or her authorized agent, may
file with the Town Manager or designee an application for a change in zone
boundaries on the form prescribed by the town and shall include the following
data:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   Signature of the property owners;
   (C)   Address and legal description of the property;
   (D)   An accurate scale drawing of the site and the surrounding area showing
existing streets and property lines for a distance determined by the town staff
to be necessary to illustrate the relationship to and impact on the surrounding
area;
   (E)   The town staff may require additional information or maps if they are
necessary to enable the Commission to determine whether the change is
consistent with the objectives of this zoning code. The Town Manager or
designee may authorize omission of the map required by this section if it is
not necessary; and
   (F)   A list of all owners of properties located within 300 feet of the
exterior boundaries of the subject property; the list shall be keyed to a map
showing the location of these properties.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-5  FEE.
   The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of
the Town Council to cover the cost of processing the application as prescribed
in this section.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-6  PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing on
each application for a change in zone boundaries or for a change of the zoning
regulations. The hearing shall be set and notice given as prescribed in §
20.5, Public Hearing Time and Notice.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-7  INVESTIGATION AND REPORT.
   The Town Manager or designee shall make an investigation of the application
or proposal and shall prepare a report thereon which shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and to the applicant prior to the public
hearing.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-8  PUBLIC HEARING PROCEDURE.
   At the public hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the
application or the proposal and may receive pertinent evidence as to why or how
the proposed change is consistent with the objectives of this zoning code, the
Tusayan Area Plan and the development policies of the town.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-9  ACTION BY THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Within 21 days following the closing of the public hearing, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall make a decision based on the following
findings:
      (1)   The change is consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of
the Tusayan Area Plan and this zoning code;
      (2)   The change is in the interest of or will further the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience and welfare; and
      (3)   The change will not adversely affect the established character of
the surrounding neighborhood nor be detrimental to adjacent properties.
   (B)   Based on these findings, the Commission shall recommend that the
application be approved, approved in modified form or denied. Said
recommendation shall be transmitted to the Town Council for final hearing and
disposition.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-10  ALTERNATE CLASSIFICATION IN LIEU OF PROPOSED CLASSIFICATION.
   When the Planning and Zoning Commission determines, following a public
hearing on a change in the boundaries of any zone, that a change to a zone
classification other than the proposed classification specified in the hearing
notice is desirable, the Commission may recommend alternate classifications to
a proposed classification in accord with the following schedule:
Proposed Zone Described in Public Alternate Zones That May be Considered
Hearing Notice
Proposed Zone Described in Public Alternate Zones That May be Considered
Hearing Notice
AR                                Any AR or RR requiring equal or larger
                                  lot sizes
CG-10,000                         CN-2/A
CH-10,000                         CG-10,000, CN-2/A
CN-2/A                            None
G                                 None
M-1-10,000                        MP-20,000
M-2-6,000                         MP-20,000, M-1-10,000
MP-20,000                         None
RM-10/A                           Any Single-Family Zone
RM-20/A                           Any other Residential Zone
RS-10,000                         Any Single-Family Zone requiring larger
                                  lot sizes
RS-18,000                         Any Single-Family Zone requiring larger
                                  lot sizes
RS-36,000                         Any Single-Family Zone requiring larger
                                  lot sizes
RS-6,000                          Any other Single-Family Zone
Special Purpose Zones             None
 
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-11  ACTION BY THE TOWN COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Town Council shall hold at least one public hearing on an
application or a proposal within 40 days after receipt of the resolution or
report of the Planning and Zoning Commission. The hearing shall be set and
notice given as prescribed in §
20.5, Public Hearing Time and Notice. Within 21 days following the closing of a
public hearing, the Town Council shall make a decision based on the findings
required by §
20.4-9.
   (B)   If the Town Council finds that the change is consistent with the
findings required by §
20.4-9, it shall approve an ordinance amending the zoning map or zoning
regulations, whichever is appropriate.
   (C)   The Town Council may modify a decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission recommending the granting of an application or adoption of a
proposal. However, prior to making a final decision on the amendment or
proposal, the Town Council may, but shall not be required to, submit any or all
modifications to the Commission for reconsideration at a public meeting. The
Commission may, but is not required to, provide supplemental comments on the
modifications to the Town Council. The Town Council may consider any
supplemental comments from the Commission before making the findings required
by §
20.4-9 and rendering a final decision. Failure of the Commission to report
within 30 days after receipt of the Town Council request shall be deemed
concurrency.
   (D)   (1)   If the Town Council finds that the change is not consistent with
the findings required by §
20.4-9, it shall deny the application or reject the proposal. In accordance
with A.R.S. § 9-462 if 20% or more either of the area of the lots included in a
proposed change, or of those immediately adjacent in the rear or any side
thereof extending 150 feet therefrom, or of those directly opposite thereto
extending 150 feet from the street frontage of the opposite lots, file a
protest in writing against a proposed amendment, it shall not become effective,
except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of all members of the Town
Council. If any members of the Town Council are unable to vote on such a
question because of a conflict of interest, then the required number of votes
for passage of the question shall be three-fourths of the remaining membership
of the Town Council; provided that, such required number of votes shall in no
event be less than a majority of the full membership of the Town Council.
      (2)   In calculating the owners by number or area, town property and
public rights-of-way shall not be included.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-12  NEW APPLICATION.
   Following the denial of an application for change in zone boundaries or a
change in the zoning regulations, an application or request for the same or
substantially the same change on the same or substantially same property shall
not be filed within one year of the date of denial.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-13  CONDITIONAL ZONING.
   The Town Council may approve a change of zone conditioned on a schedule for
development of the specific use or uses for which the rezoning is requested.
If, at the expiration of this period, the property has not been improved for
the use for which it was conditionally approved, the Town Council after
notification by registered mail to the owner and applicant who requested the
rezoning, shall schedule a public hearing to grant an extension, determine
compliance with the schedule for development or cause the property to revert to
its former zoning classification.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.4-14  CHANGE OF ZONE ACCOMPANIED BY A SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   When a zone change request is accompanied by a preliminary subdivision plat,
the change of zoning shall not vest or become effective until recordation of a
final plat.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.5  PUBLIC HEARING TIME AND NOTICE.
   (A)   The  Town Manager shall set the time and place of public hearings
required by this code to be held by the Planning and Zoning Commission or
Hearing Officer; provided that, the Commission or Hearing Officer may change
the time or place of a hearing. However, the Planning and Zoning Commission or
Hearing Officer shall hold a public hearing within 75 days after the
appropriate application has been filed.
   (B)   The Town Clerk shall set the time and place of public hearings
required by this zoning code to be held by the Town Council; provided that, the
Town Council may change the time or place of a hearing. The Town Council shall
hold a public hearing on a rezoning request, or an amendment approved by the
Commission not less than 60 days after notice of such decision or appeal has
been filed with the Town Clerk unless the applicant or appellant shall consent
to an extension of time. Notice of a public hearing shall be given not less
than 15 days, nor more than 30 days, prior to the date of the hearing by
publication in a newspaper of general circulation. When the hearing concerns a
matter other than an amendment to the text of this zoning code, the property
shall be posted at least 15 days prior to the hearing. Notices of public
hearings before the Planning and Zoning Commission,  Hearing Officer or  Town
Council shall be mailed to all persons whose names appear on the latest adopted
tax roll of Coconino County as owning property within 300 feet of the exterior
boundaries of the property that is the subject of the hearing.
   (C)   In proceedings involving one or more of the following proposed changes
or related series of changes in the standards governing land uses, notice shall
be provided in the manner prescribed by division (D) below:
      (1)   A 10% or more increase or decrease in the number of square feet or
units that may be developed;
      (2)   A 10% or more increase or reduction in the allowable height of
buildings;
      (3)   An increase or reduction in the allowable number of stories of
buildings;
      (4)   A 10% or more increase or decrease in the setback or open space
requirements; and/or
      (5)   An increase or reduction in permitted uses.
   (D)   In proceedings governed by division (C) above, the town shall provide
notice to real property owners pursuant to at least one of the following
notification procedures:
      (1)   Notice shall be sent by first class mail to each real property
owner, as shown on the last assessment, whose real property is directly
governed by the changes;
      (2)   If the town issues utility bills or other mass mailings that
periodically include notices or other informational or advertising materials,
the town shall include notice of such changes in such utility bills or other
mailings; and
      (3)   The town shall publish such changes prior to the first hearing on
such changes in a newspaper of general circulation in the town. The changes
shall be published in a “display ad” covering not less than one-eighth of a
full page.
   (E)   If notice is provided pursuant to divisions (D)(2) or (D)(3) above,
the town shall also send notice by first class mail to persons who register
their names and addresses with the town as being interested in receiving such
notice. The town may charge a fee not to exceed $5 per year for providing this
service.
   (F)   Not withstanding the notice requirements set forth in division (C)
above, failure of any person or entity to receive notice shall not constitute
grounds for any court to invalidate the actions of the town for which notice
was given.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.6  APPEALS: TOWN COUNCIL REVIEW.
§ 20.6-1  APPEAL OF DECISION OF PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   Where this zoning code provides for appeal to the Town Council of a decision
of the Planning and Zoning Commission, the appeal shall be made within 15 days
of the date of the decision by filing a letter of appeal with the Town Manager.
The appeal shall state in writing the reasons for the appeal.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.6-2  FEE.
   An appeal shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
Town Council to cover the cost of processing the appeal.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.6-3  TOWN COUNCIL ACTION ON APPEAL.
   The Town Council shall hold at least one public hearing on a decision of the
Planning and Zoning Commission which has been appealed. The hearing shall be
held within 60 days from the filing of the appeal; the time and place of the
hearing shall be set by notice given as prescribed in §
20.5. The Town Council shall render a decision on an appeal within 21 days
following the closing of the public hearing on the appeal. Failure of the Town
Council to act within the time period prescribed by this section shall be
deemed approval of the Planning and Zoning Commission action. The Town Council
may affirm, reverse or modify a decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
The decision of the Town Council shall be final.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7  VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
§ 20.7-1  PURPOSES AND AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   Variances from the terms of the zoning code shall be granted only
when, because of special circumstances applicable to the property, including
size, shape, topography, location or surroundings, the strict application of
the zoning code deprives such property of privileges enjoyed by other property
in the vicinity and under identical zoning classification. Any variance granted
shall be subject to such conditions as will assure that the adjustment thereby
authorized shall not constitute a grant of special privileges inconsistent with
the limitations upon other properties in the vicinity and zone in which such
property is situated.
   (B)   The power to grant variances does not extend to use regulations.
Flexibility to the zoning regulations is provided in the conditional use
provisions of this zoning code.
   (C)   The Hearing Officer may grant variances to the regulations prescribed
by this section, in accord with the procedure prescribed in this section, with
respect to fences, walls, hedges, screening and landscaping; site area, width,
and depth; front, rear and side yards; coverage, height of structures;
distances between structures; usable open space; signs, off-street parking
facilities or frontage on a public street.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer shall hear and decide appeals in which it is
alleged that there is an error in an order, requirement or decision made by the
Zoning Administrator in the administration of this zoning code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-2  APPLICATION: DATA AND MAPS TO BE FURNISHED.
   (A)   Application for a variance shall be filed with the Town Manager or
designee on a form prescribed by the town and shall include the following data
and maps:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant(s);
      (2)   Statement that the applicant(s) is the plaintiff in any action in
eminent domain to acquire the property or the owner or the authorized agent of
the owner of the property on which the variance is being requested;
      (3)   Address and legal description of the property;
      (4)   Statement indicating the precise nature of the variance requested
and the practical difficulty or unnecessary physical hardship inconsistent with
the objectives of the zoning regulations that would result from a strict or
literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified regulations, together
with any other data pertinent to the findings prerequisite to the granting of a
variance, prescribed in §
20.7-7, Findings;
      (5)   An accurate scale drawing of the site and any adjacent property
affected, showing, when pertinent, the contours at intervals of not more than
two feet, and all existing and proposed locations of streets, property lines,
uses, structures, driveways, pedestrian walks, off-street parking facilities
and landscaped areas;
      (6)   A list of all owners of property located within 300 feet of the
exterior boundaries of the subject property; the list shall be keyed to a map
showing the location of these properties; and
      (7)   The town staff may require additional information or plans, if they
are necessary to enable a determination as to whether the circumstances
prescribed for the granting of a variance exist. The Town Manager or designee
may authorize omission of any or all of the plans and drawings required by this
section if they are not necessary.
   (B)   An appeal from a decision of the Zoning Administrator shall be filed
with the Town Hearing Officer and should cite the specific decision or action
being appealed as well as the reasons and justification for the appeal.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-3  FEES.
   An application for a variance or an appeal of a decision of the Zoning
Administrator shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of the
Town Council to cover the cost of handling the variance application as
prescribed in this section or responding to an appeal. A single application for
a variance may include requests for variances from more than one regulation
applicable to the same site, or for similar variances on two or more adjacent
sites with similar characteristics.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-4  PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The Hearing Officer shall hold a public hearing on an application for
a variance or an appeal of a decision made by the Zoning Administrator. The
hearing shall be set and notice given as prescribed in §
20.5, Public Hearing Time and Notice.
   (B)   At a public hearing for a variance, the Hearing Officer shall review
the application, statements and drawings submitted therewith and shall receive
pertinent evidence concerning the variance, particularly with respect to the
findings prescribed in §
20.7-7, Findings.
   (C)   At a public hearing on an appeal from a decision of the Zoning
Administrator, the Hearing Officer shall review the written appeal and
statements and evidence in support of the appeal.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-5  INVESTIGATION AND REPORT.
   The Town Manager or designee shall make an investigation of each application
that is the subject of a public hearing and shall prepare a report thereon
which shall be submitted to the Hearing Officer and made available to the
applicant prior to the public hearing.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-6  ACTION BY THE HEARING OFFICER.
   (A)   Within 21 days following the close of the public hearing on a variance
application, the Hearing Officer shall act on the application. The Hearing
Officer may grant, by resolution, a variance as the variance was applied for or
in modified form, or the application may be denied. A variance may be
revocable, may be granted for a limited time period, or may be granted, subject
to conditions as the Hearing Officer may prescribe.
   (B)   Within 21 days following the close of the public hearing on an appeal
from a decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Hearing Officer shall reverse,
affirm or modify, wholly or partly, any order, requirement or decision of the
Zoning Administrator properly appealed to the Hearing Officer, and make such
order, requirement, decision or determination as is necessary.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-7  FINDINGS.
   The Hearing Officer may grant a variance to a regulation prescribed by this
zoning code with respect to fences, walls, hedges, screening or landscaping;
site area, width or depth; front, rear or side yards; coverage, height of
structures, distances between structures, usable open space or frontage on a
public street, as the variance was applied for or in modified form, if, on the
basis of the application and the evidence submitted, the Hearing Officer makes
findings of fact that establish that the circumstances prescribed in divisions
(A), (B) or (C) below and in divisions (D) and (E) below do apply.
   (A)   The strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified
regulation would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary physical
hardship inconsistent with the objectives of this zoning code.
   (B)   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applicable to the property involved which do not apply generally to other
properties in the same zone.
   (C)   Strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified
regulation would deprive the applicant of privileges enjoyed by the owners of
other properties in the same zone.
   (D)   The granting of the variance as conditioned will not constitute the
granting of a special privilege inconsistent with the limitations on other
properties in the same zone.
   (E)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-8  SIGNS: ADDITIONAL FINDINGS.
   The Hearing Officer may grant a variance to a regulation prescribed in this
zoning code with respect to signs as the variance was applied for or in
modified form, if, on the basis of the application and the evidence submitted,
the Hearing Officer makes findings of fact that establish that the
circumstances prescribed in §
20.7-7, Findings, apply and the following circumstances also apply.
   (A)   The granting of the variance will not detract from the attractiveness
or orderliness of the surrounding neighborhood or infringe on the similar
rights of others.
   (B)   The granting of the variance will not create a hazard to public
safety.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-9  PARKING: ADDITIONAL FINDINGS.
   The Hearing Officer may grant a variance to a regulation prescribed by this
zoning code with respect to off-street parking facilities as the variance was
applied for or in modified form, if, on the basis of the application and the
evidence submitted, the Hearing Officer makes findings of fact that establish
that the circumstances prescribed in §
20.7-7 apply and the following circumstances apply.
   (A)   Neither present nor anticipated future traffic volumes generated by
the use of the site or the uses of sites in the vicinity reasonably require
strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified regulation.
   (B)   The granting of the variance will not result in the parking or loading
of vehicles on public streets in such a manner as to interfere with the free
flow of traffic on the streets.
   (C)   The granting of the variance will not create a safety hazard or any
other condition inconsistent with the objectives of this zoning code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-10  APPEALS OF DECISIONS BY HEARING OFFICER.
   A decision of the Hearing Officer on a variance or an appeal of a decision
made by the Zoning Administrator may be appealed within 30 days to the Board of
Adjustment by the applicant or any other aggrieved person.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-11  EFFECTIVE DATE OF VARIANCE.
   A decision of the Hearing Officer on a variance shall be final 30 days after
the date of the decision and upon receipt by the Town Manager of a signed
agreement to the conditions of approval, unless an appeal has been filed.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-12  LAPSE OF VARIANCE.
   (A)   A variance shall lapse and shall become void one year following the
date on which the variance became effective unless prior to the expiration of
one year, a building permit is issued and construction is commenced and
diligently pursued toward completion on the site which was the subject of the
variance application, or a permit is issued authorizing occupancy of the site
or structure which was the subject of the variance application, or the site is
occupied if no building permit or certificate of occupancy is required.
   (B)   A variance may be renewed for an additional period of one year;
provided that, prior to the expiration of one year from the date when the
variance or the renewal became effective, an application for renewal of the
variance is filed with the Town Manager or designee.
   (C)   The Hearing Officer may grant or deny an application for renewal of a
variance, subject to the modification of existing conditions and/or the
addition of new conditions of approval.
   (D)   A variance shall also lapse if the use for which the variance is
approved is terminated for a period of one year. Recommencement of the use
after the one year period of inactivity shall require filing a new variance
application according to the process and requirements listed in §§
20.7-1 through 20.7-15.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-13  REVOCATION.
   A variance granted by the Hearing Officer subject to conditions shall be
revoked by the Hearing Officer if the applicant has not complied with the
conditions. The decision of the Hearing Officer revoking a variance shall
become effective 15 days following the date on which it was revoked unless an
appeal has been filed.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-14  NEW APPLICATION.
   Following the denial or revocation of a variance application, no application
for the same or substantially the same variance on the site or substantially
the same site shall be filed within one year from the date of denial or
revocation of the variance.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.7-15  VARIANCE RELATED TO PLANS SUBMITTED.
   Unless otherwise specified at the time a variance is granted, it shall apply
only to the plans and drawings submitted as part of the application.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.8  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
§ 20.8-1  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-462.06, the town shall have a Board of Adjustment
which shall be appointed by the Town Council. In lieu of appointing a separate
Board of Adjustment, the Mayor, with the consent of the Town Council, may
establish the Town Council as the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.8-2  MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board shall consist of five members who shall be residents of the town.
The members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the Town Council. The members of the Board shall serve without
compensation.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.8-3  TERM OF OFFICE.
   Whenever the Town Council is not serving as the Board, the term of office of
the members of the Board shall be two years, with the terms of members so
staggered that the terms of no more than four members shall expire in any one
year. In the event of a death, resignation or removal from the Board, the
vacancy shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired term. Three unexcused
absences during a calendar year from any regular or special meeting may be
considered inefficiency or neglect of duty and may be grounds for termination
at the will and pleasure of the Town Council.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.8-4  ORGANIZATION OF THE BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Town Council is serving as the Board, the Mayor and Vice
Mayor shall serve as the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson respectively.
Otherwise, the Board shall elect a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson from the
members of the Board at the first meeting held in each calendar year. The
Chairperson shall preside at all meetings. The Vice Chairperson shall perform
the duties of the Chairperson in the latter’s absence or disability.
   (B)   Meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and notice to the
public of items on the agenda shall be provided as required by state law and by
§
20.5 of this zoning code. The minutes of the proceedings showing the votes of
each member and records of its examinations and other official actions shall be
kept and filed in the office of the Town Clerk as a public record.
   (C)   Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the purpose
of transacting business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the Board shall
be required to pass a motion. A member may abstain from voting only upon a
declaration that he or she has a conflict of interest, in which case such
member shall take no part in the deliberation on the matter in question.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.8-5  GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to A.R.S. § 9-462.06, the Town Board of Adjustment hereby grants
authority for hearing and deciding variance requests and appeals of decisions
made by the Zoning Administrator to the Hearing Officer. The Board of
Adjustment will hear and decide appeals from the decisions of the Hearing
Officer on these matters.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.8-6  APPEALS OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT DECISION.
   A person aggrieved by a decision of the Board of Adjustment may, at any time
within 30 days after the Board has rendered its decision, file a complaint for
special action in Superior Court to review the Board or Town Council decision.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.9  ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
§ 20.9-1  ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The staff position of Zoning Administrator is hereby created for the
administration of this zoning code. The Zoning Administrator shall possess all
powers of a Zoning Administrator under this zoning code and state law and shall
perform such duties as are set forth under this zoning code. The Town Manager
or his or her designee shall serve as the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator shall not be the Town Hearing Officer.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the following duties:
      (1)   Establish rules, procedures and forms to provide for the processing
of applications or requests for action under the provisions of this ordinance;
      (2)   Accomplish all administrative actions required by this zoning code,
including the giving of notice, preparation of reports, receiving and
processing appeals, and the acceptance and accounting of fees;
      (3)   Provide advice and recommendations to the Town Planning and Zoning
Commission, Board of Adjustment, Hearing Officer and Town Council with respect
to applications and requests for approvals as required by this zoning code;
      (4)   Interpret the zoning code to the public, subject to policies
established by the Town Council;
      (5)   Determine the location of any zoning district boundary shown on the
zoning map adopted as part of this zoning code when such location is in
dispute;
      (6)   Enforce the provisions of the zoning code as set forth in § 7 of
this zoning code; and
      (7)   The Zoning Administrator shall not make any changes in the uses
permitted in any zoning classification or make any changes in the terms of the
zoning code.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.10  ADJUSTMENTS.
§ 20.10-1  PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to grant authority to the Town Manager
to take action on requests for minor modifications or adjustments to certain
requirements of this zoning code when such requests constitute a reasonable use
of property not permissible under a strict literal interpretation of the
regulations.
   (B)   For the purpose of administering this section, an adjustment is any
variance to the terms or requirements of this zoning code, which, if granted,
would allow the following:
      (1)   A decrease of not more than 10% of the required building site area,
width or depth;
      (2)   A decrease of not more than 20% of the required width of a side
yard or the yard between buildings;
      (3)   A decrease of not more than 20% of the required front or rear yard;
      (4)   An increase of not more than 20% in the permitted height of a fence
or wall;
      (5)   An increase of not more than 10% of the permitted projection of
steps, stairways, landings, eaves, overhangs, masonry chimneys and fireplaces
into any required front, rear, side or yard between buildings;
      (6)   An increase of not more than 10% of the permitted height or areas
of signs;
      (7)   A decrease in the number of required parking spaces of not more
than 10%;
      (8)   An increase of not more than 10% in the maximum allowable lot
coverage; and
      (9)   An increase of not more than 10% in the permitted height of
buildings.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.10-2  APPLICATION: DATA AND MAPS TO BE FURNISHED.
   Application for an adjustment shall be filed with the Town Manager or
designee on a form prescribed by the town and shall include the following data
and maps:
   (A)   Name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   Statement that the applicant is the plaintiff in any action in eminent
domain to acquire the property or the owner or the authorized agent of the
owner of the property on which the adjustment is being requested;
   (C)   Address and legal description of the property;
   (D)   Statement of the precise nature of the adjustment;
   (E)   An accurate scale drawing of the site and any adjacent property
affected, showing all existing and proposed property lines, locations of
structures, parking areas, driveways, other improvements or facilities and
landscaped areas;
   (F)   Other plans, drawings or information which the staff deems necessary
to enable proper consideration of the application; and
   (G)   If the request is for a setback reduction, a letter approving the
adjustment from the affected adjacent property owner.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.10-3  FEES.
   The application shall be accompanied by a fee established by resolution of
the Town Council to cover the cost of handling the application as prescribed in
this section. A single application may include requests for adjustments from
more than one regulation applicable to the same site, or for similar
adjustments on two or more adjacent sites having the same characteristics.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.10-4  FINDINGS.
   In granting an adjustment, the Town Manager shall make findings of fact that
establish that the circumstances necessary for granting a variance by the
Hearing Officer, as prescribed in §
20.7-7, Findings, do apply.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.10-5  SITE AREA: ADDITIONAL FINDINGS.
   In order to grant approval of an administrative adjustment allowing a
reduction in minimum site area the Town Manager must make the following
additional finding: the property cannot otherwise meet the minimum site area
requirement of its current zoning classification.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.10-6  DECISION OF TOWN MANAGER.
   If the Town Manager denies an application for an adjustment or, if the
applicant disagrees with the conditions imposed on the granting of an
adjustment, if any, the applicant may file for a variance in accordance with §
20.7, Variances.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 20.11  ANIMAL HUSBANDRY ACTIVITIES OR PROJECTS.
   (A)   FFA, 4-H or any agricultural or recognized animal husbandry activity
or project conducted primarily for educational purposes or school credits may
be permitted in any zone.
   (B)   The following criteria shall be met.
      (1)   Active membership, including enrollment in the specific livestock
project, must be maintained, the project must be operated in compliance with
all requirements of the organization having jurisdiction over the project, and
verification of such shall be required.
      (2)   The keeping of all animals shall be subject to The Rules and
Regulations of the Coconino County Health Department, §§ 11-1 (General), 11-2
(Piggeries) and 11-3 (Sanitary Requirements), as applicable.
      (3)   Under this exemption the setback and number of animals per acre do
not apply for animals utilized in animal husbandry projects. However, the
setback exemption shall not apply to any piggery, which is required by The
Rules and Regulations of the Coconino County Department of Public Health to be
located at least 300 feet from an inhabited house on an adjoining property.
      (4)   An application for the animal husbandry exemption must be approved
by the Town Manager before more animals than the number permitted in the zoning
district are brought to the property, or before any required setbacks are
waived.
      (5)   The setback exemption and/or the number of animals per acre
exemption may be revoked by the Town Manager if the animal husbandry activity
or project is found to be out of compliance with any rules or regulations of
the organization having jurisdiction over the project (i.e., the University of
Arizona Cooperative Extension and the like). The finding of said lack of
compliance must be made by the organization with jurisdiction.
      (6)   The setback exemption and/or the number of animals per acre
exemption may be revoked by the Town Manager if a violation of §§ 11-1, 11-2 or
11-3 of The Rules and Regulations of the Coconino County Department of Public
Health is found to exist on the property. The finding of a violation must be
made by the Coconino County Hearing Officer for Environmental Services.
      (7)   The setback exemption and/or the number of animals per acre
exemption may also be revoked by the Town Manager if a violation of A.R.S. §
13-2910, Cruelty to Animals, is found to exist on the property. The finding of
a violation must be made by a Justice of the Peace.
      (8)   A revocation of an exemption may be appealed to the Planning and
Zoning Commission. A written appeal must be filed within 30 days of the
revocation.
      (9)   A decision by the Planning and Zoning Commission may be appealed to
the Town Council. A written appeal must be filed within 15 days of the
Commission’s decision.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
SECTION 21:  TUSAYAN AREA PLAN
Section
   
21.1   Applicability of state law
   
21.2   Amendments to Tusayan Area Plan
§ 21.1  APPLICABILITY OF STATE LAW.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, the provisions of the
A.R.S. Title 9 relating to the adoption, amendment, effect and all other
aspects of general plans shall apply to the town.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
§ 21.2  AMENDMENTS TO TUSAYAN AREA PLAN.
   (A)   The Tusayan Area Plan or any part or element thereof may be amended as
frequently in any calendar year as may be determined by the Town Council to be
in the public interest.
   (B)   (1)   An amendment to the Tusayan Area Plan or any part or element
thereof may be initiated by:
         (a)   The Town Council;
         (b)   The Planning and Zoning Commission; or
         (c)   The owner of the property in question.
      (2)   However, any amendment initiated by the property owner shall be
made by application filed with the town on a form prescribed by the Town
Manager. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee as prescribed by
resolution of the Town Council.
   (C)   Any hearing held in conjunction with an amendment to the zoning code
for the purpose of bringing zoning into consistency with the Tusayan Area Plan
may be held at any time after the date on which an amendment to the Tusayan
Area Plan or any part or element thereof has been recommended for adoption by
the Planning and Zoning Commission; provided, however, that, no such amendment
to the Zoning Ordinance shall be adopted by the Town Council until the Council
has first adopted the appropriate amendment to the Tusayan Area Plan.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 12-5-2012)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Arizona Revised Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ARIZONA REVISED STATUTES
A.R.S. Cites Code Section
A.R.S. Cites              Code Section
Title 9                   21.1
9-240                     7.0,
                          7.3
9-462                     20.4-11
9-462.06                  20.8-1,
                          20.8-5
9-500.21.4                7.3
13-2910                   20.11
34-405-C                  15.3
Title 36, Ch. 4           14.6
36-582                    14.6
36-2801(11)               14.9
36-2804(B)                14.9
36-2804(B)(1)(b)(ii)      14.9
36-2806(C)                14.9
36-2806.01                14.9
Title 40, Ch. 2, Art. 6.2 13.6-3
Title 45, Ch. 10, Art. 4  13.6-3
Title 45, Ch. 21          13.6-3
Title 48, Ch. 21, Art. 1  13.6-3
48-3601 through 48-3627   13.6-1
48-3609.H                 13.6-3
48-3610                   13.6-3,
                          13.6-5
48-3613                   13.6-3
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     1,
                     2,
                     3,
                     4,
                     5,
                     6,
                     7.0—
                     7.5,
                     8,
                     9.0—
                     9.7,
                     10.0—
                     10.7,
                     11.0—
                     11.6,
                     12.0—
                     12.6,
                     13.0,
                     13.1-1—
                     13.1-16,
                     13.2-1—
                     13.2-10,
                     13.3-1—
                     13.3-9,
                     13.4-1—
                     13.4-6,
                     13.5-1—
                     13.5-5,
                     13.6-1—
                     13.6-8,
                     13.7-1—
                     13.7-7,
                     13.8-1—
                     13.8-4,
                     13.9-1—
                     13.9-6,
                     13.10-1—
                     13.10-9,
                     13.11-1—
                     13.11-7,
2012-04  12-5-2012   14.0,
                     14.1,
                     14.1-1—
                     14.1-5,
                     14.2—
                     14.9,
                     15.0—
                     15.3,
                     16.0—
                     16.9,
                     16.9-1—
                     16.9-9,
                     16.10-1,
                     16.10-2,
                     16.11,
                     17.0—
                     17.12,
                     18.1—
                     18.12,
                     19.0—
                     19.11,
                     20.1-1—
                     20.1-6,
                     20.2-1—
                     20.2-3,
                     20.3-1—
                     20.3-17,
                     20.4-1—
                     20.4-14,
                     20.5,
                     20.6-1—
                     20.6-3,
                     20.7-1—
                     20.7-15,
                     20.8-1—
                     20.8-6,
                     20.9-1,
                     20.10-1—
                     20.10-6,
                     20.11,
                     21.1,
                     21.2
                    
 
