CITY CODE
of
ALAMO, TEXAS
1994
Code current through:
Ord. 189-07-25, passed 7-15-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Alamo, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 189-07-25, passed July 15, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
   American Legal Publishing
   Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE NO. 194-08-25
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 11 'SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS', CHAPTER 4
'SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT', BY ADDING SECTION 11-4-7 'ETJ
RELEASE PROCESSING'; PROVIDING A CUMULATIVE PROVISION; PROVIDING A SEVERABILITY
PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE; PROVIDING FOR PUBLICATION OF THIS
ORDINANCE'S CAPTION; AND PROVIDING INSTRUCTION TO THE CITY SECRETARY TO HAVE
THIS ORDINANCE INCLUDED IN THE CITY OF ALAMO, TEXAS' CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
 
ORDINANCE 195-08-25
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 'ZONING REGULATIONS', SECTION 10-3-6 'VEHICLE
PARKING' TO MANDATE THAT WHEN PROPERTIES TRANSITION, THAT PREVAILING PAVED OFF-
STREET PARKING CODES SHALL BE COMPLIED WITH INCLUDING THE TRAFFIC-FRIENDLY
POLICY 'FACE-OUT/HEAD-OUT' WHEN EXITING ONTO THE STREET SYSTEM; PROVIDING FOR A
CUMULATIVE PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR A SEVERABILITY PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR AN
EFFECTIVE DATE; INSTRUCTING THE CITY SECRETARY TO PUBLISH THE CAPTION OF THIS
ORDINANCE IN A NEWSPAPER OF LOCAL CIRCULATION; AND INSTRUCTING THE CITY
SECRETARY TO FORWARD THIS ORDINANCE TO THE CITY'S CODIFIER SO THAT THE CITY'S
CODE OF ORDINANCE MAY BE PROMPTLY AMENDED
 
 
ORDINANCE 196-08-25
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 177-05-25 THAT ADOPTED THE NEW MDR1 ZONING
DISTRICT THAT WAS ADDED TO TITLE 10 'ZONING REGULATIONS', AND MORE SPECIFICALLY
AMENDING THE MINIMUM LIVING AREA FOR MDR1 ZONED PROPERTIES; PROVIDING FOR A
CUMULATIVE PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR A SEVERABILITY PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR AN
EFFECTIVE DATE; INSTRUCTING THE CITY SECRETARY TO PUBLISH THE CAPTION OF THIS
ORDINANCE IN A NEWSPAPER OF LOCAL CIRCULATION; AND INSTRUCTING THE CITY
SECRETARY TO FORWARD THIS ORDINANCE TO THE CITY'S CODIFIER SO THAT THE CITY'S
CODE OF ORDINANCE MAY BE PROMPTLY AMENDED
 
 
ORDINANCE 197-08-25
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 11 'SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS', CHAPTER 3 'DESIGN
STANDARDS AND REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS', SECTION 11-3-9 (D) 'STREET LIGHTING
AND ELECTRICAL SERVICES' TO REQUIRE A LED STREETLIGHTING ON NEW SUBDIVISIONS;
PROVIDING FOR A CUMULATIVE PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR A SEVERABILITY PROVISION;
PROVIDING FOR AN ENABLING DATE OF EFFECTIVENESS; PROVIDING FOR THE PUBLICATION
OF THIS ORDINANCE'S CAPTION IN A NEWSPAPER OF LOCAL CIRCULATION; AND PROVIDING
FOR THIS ORDINANCE TO BE INCLUDED IN THE CITY OF ALAMO'S CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
 
ORDINANCE 198-08-25
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 'ZONING REGULATIONS', CHAPTER 3 'GENERAL ZONING
PROVISIONS' SECTION 10-3-6 (A) 'PARKING REQUIREMENTS'; PROVIDING FOR A
CUMULATIVE PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR THE ADDITION OF PARKING REQUIREMENTS FOR
RESTAURANTS THAT ARE EXCLUSIVELY FOR DRIVE-THRU SERVICES; PROVIDING FOR A
SEVERABILITY PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR AN ENABLING DATE OF EFFECTIVENESS;
PROVIDING FOR THE PUBLICATION OF THIS ORDINANCE'S CAPTION IN A NEWSPAPER OF
LOCAL CIRCULATION; AND PROVIDING FOR THIS ORDINANCE TO BE INCLUDED IN THE CITY
OF ALAMO'S CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
 
ORDINANCE 199-08-25
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 11 'SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS', CHAPTER 3 'DESIGN
STANDARDS AND REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS', SECTION 11-3-6 'SIDEWALKS' TO
PROVIDE A COMPREHENSIVE UPDATE TO SAID SIDEWALK REGULATIONS; PROVIDING FOR A
CUMULATIVE PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR A SEVERABILITY PROVISION; AND PROVIDING FOR
AN ENABLING DATE OF EFFECTIVENESS; PROVIDING FOR THE PUBLICATION OF THIS
ORDINANCE'S CAPTION IN A NEWSPAPER OF LOCAL CIRCULATION; AND PROVIDING FOR THIS
ORDINANCE TO BE INCLUDED IN THE CITY OF ALAMO'S CODE OF ORDINANCES
 
 
ORDINANCE 200-08-25
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 9 'BUILDING REGULATIONS', CHAPTER 1 'BUILDING
CODES', TO APPROVE THE MOST PREVAILING UPDATES TO SECTION 9-1-1-
1 'INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE'; SECTION 9-1-1-8 'ELECTRICAL CODE', SECTION 9-
1-1-9 'INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE'; PROVIDING FOR A CUMULATIVE
CLAUSE; PROVIDING FOR A SEVERABILITY PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR AN ENABLING DATE
OF ENFORCEMENT; PROVIDING FOR THE CITY SECRETARY TO HAVE THE CONTENTS OF THIS
ORDINANCE PUBLISHED AND POSTED IN THE CITY OF ALAMO'S CODE OF ORDINANCES; AND
INSTRUCTING THE CITY SECRETARY TO PUBLISH THE CAPTION OF THIS ORDINANCE IN A
NEWSPAPER OF LOCAL CIRCULATION IN ACCORDANCE TO PROTOCOL
 
 
ORDINANCE 201-08-25
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 'ZONING REGULATIONS', SECTION 10-3-2(E) 'AREA
AND DENSITY REGULATIONS' TO FACTOR-IN THE MINIMUM LIVING AREA FOR MDR1 LOTS IN
SAID SECTION; PROVIDING FOR A CUMULATIVE PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR A
SEVERABILITY PROVISION; PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE; INSTRUCTING THE CITY
SECRETARY TO PUBLISH THE CAPTION OF THIS ORDINANCE IN A NEWSPAPER OF LOCAL
CIRCULATION; AND INSTRUCTING THE CITY SECRETARY TO FORWARD THIS ORDINANCE TO
THE CITY'S CODIFIER SO THAT THE CITY'S CODE OF ORDINANCE MAY BE PROMPTLY
AMENDED
 
ORDINANCE 203-09-25
 
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE EXTENSION ON CERTAIN BOUNDARY LIMITS OF THE CITY
OF ALAMO, TEXAS PURSUANT TO VOLUNTARY ANNEXATION REQUEST OF THE PROPERTY
DESCRIBED AS A THIRTY-NINE AND 99/100 (39.99) ACRE TRACT OF LAND OUT OF LOT 15,
BLOCK 42, ALAMO LAND AND SUGAR COMPANY'S SUBDIVISION
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 09-06-94C
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF ALAMO, TEXAS
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Alamo, Texas, a
Texas Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Alamo, Texas prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official
Code and Law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies of which
shall be maintained in the office of the City Secretary, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and City
Council.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7428a78b5d7031fb0348050f36d91c2fa0cae1bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.png]
 
   City of Alamo
   423 N. Tower Road
   Alamo, Texas 78516
Dear Citizens:
We submit herewith the original copy of the Proposed Home Rule Charter for the
City of Alamo as drafted by the Charter Commission elected by the voters of the
City of Alamo on January 21, 1978.
The Charter Commission, in compliance with the applicable law of the State of
Texas, has designated Saturday, January 20, 1979, as the date on which this
proposed Home Rule Charter shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the
City of Alamo for adoption or rejection. In accordance with State law, not less
than thirty (30) days prior to the date designated for submission of the
Charter to the voters for adoption or rejection, the City Secretary shall mail
a copy of the proposed Home Rule Charter to each qualified voter of the City of
Alamo.
This proposed Home Rule Charter provides for a Board of Commissioners form of
government for the City of Alamo, with the Mayor and four (4) Commissioners,
along with a Municipal Judge, elected by the people. We commend this proposed
Charter to the citizens of Alamo and recommend its adoption. It is our belief
that it will permit our City government to operate more effectively,
efficiently and satisfactorily to the best interest of all our citizens.
We extend our gratitude and appreciation to the other members of the Charter
Commission, to the State officials, the Texas Municipal League, the City
Attorney, the employees of the City and the citizens who have assisted us in
the work of drafting this Charter.
We request that a copy of this letter of transmittal be sent with each copy of
the proposed Home Rule Charter when it is mailed to the qualified voters.
                        Respectfully submitted
                        Alamo Charter Commission
Cruz Alaniz, Chairman
John H. Ginsbach, Vice Chairman
Van Hutchins, Secretary
   CHARTER PUBLICATION
   ORIGINAL CHARTER COMMISSION
We, the undersigned members, of the Alamo Charter Commission heretofore duly
elected to prepare a Charter for the City of Alamo, Texas, do hereby certify
that this publication constitutes a true copy of the proposed Charter for the
City of Alamo, Texas as adopted by the members thereof.
Cruz Alaniz, CHARTER COMMISSION CHAIRMAN
Alicia F. Hewitt
John H. Ginsbach, CHARTER COMMISSION VICE CHAIRMAN
Rodolfo (Rudy) Villarreal
Ponciano (Chano) Perez
Robert (Bob) Johnson
Van Hutchins, CHARTER COMMISSION SECRETARY
Francisco (Frank) Sandoval
Jose F. (Joe) Alonso
Mrs. Eddie Lee Balli*
Agostino (Father) Pacheco
Robert (Bob) Balli, Jr.
Jesus Morales
Elwin (Ed) C. Bruner
Enrique (Rick) Moya, Jr.
F.T. (Pinky) Boecker
*Mrs. Balli asked to be replaced because of illness; therefore, replaced by
Agostino (Father) Pacheco.
This Charter shall be submitted to the qualified voters of the City of Alamo,
submitting this same Article at a time at an election to be held on the 20th
day of January A.D. 1979.
   CHARTER AMENDMENTS
   The following names of appointed citizens and City Commissioners met with
City Attorney, James E. Darling, November 26, 1991, to finalize the changes and
additions to the City Charter (original January 20, 1979) which was accepted by
qualified voters Saturday, January 18, 1992:
   Patty A. Stanford
   Richard L. Schlotterback
   Raul B. Garza
   Gus Chapa
   Alicia Hewitt
   Raul Medina
   Ponciano Perez
   Dalia Lopez
   Mae Klitzke
   Leticia Bocanegra
   Mayor Marcelino Medina
   Mayor Pro Tem Eleazar Escobedo
   Commissioner Roberto Garza
   Commissioner Francisco M. Sandoval
   Interim City Manager Arturo Ramirez
   THE CHARTER OF THE CITY OF ALAMO
   AS AMENDED BY ELECTION OF THE VOTERS
   ON JANUARY 18, 1992
CHARTER
of the
CITY OF ALAMO, TEXAS
ARTICLE I
INCORPORATION, POWERS AND TERRITORY
Section 1. Corporate Name and Status
   The inhabitants of the City of Alamo in Hidalgo County, Texas, residing
within its territorial limits, as these limits are now established, or are
hereafter established in the manner provided by this Charter, shall continue to
be and are hereby constituted a body politic and corporate by the name of the
"City of Alamo", hereinafter referred to as the "City", and under that name
shall have perpetual succession; may use a corporate seal; may sue and be sued;
may acquire property within or without its boundaries for any Municipal
purpose, in fee simple or lesser interest or estate, by purchase, gift, devise,
lease or condemnation and may sell, lease, hold, manage, and control such
property as its interest may require, may cooperate with the Federal government
or any agency of the government of the State of Texas, or any political
subdivision of the State of Texas, to accomplish any lawful purpose for the
advancement of the interest, welfare, health, morals, conduct, comfort, safety
and convenience of the City and its inhabitants; and may pass such ordinances
as may be expedient for maintaining and promoting the peace and government and
welfare of the City and for the performance of the functions thereof; and,
except as prohibited by the Constitution and laws of the State of Texas or
restricted by this Charter, the City shall have and may exercise all Municipal
powers, functions, rights, privileges, and immunities of every nature
whatsoever.
Section 2. Enumerated Powers Not Exclusive
   The enumeration of particular powers by this Charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive, but, in addition to the powers enumerated therein or
implied thereby, or appropriate to the exercise of such powers, it is intended
that the City of Alamo shall have, and may exercise, all powers of local self
government, and all powers enumerated in Chapter 13, Title 28, Article 1175 of
the Revised Civil Statutes of the State of Texas, of 1925, and amendments
thereto and hereafter enacted, or any other powers which, under the
Constitution and laws of the State of Texas, it would be competent for this
Charter specifically to enumerate. All powers of the City, whether expressed or
implied, shall be exercised in the manner prescribed by this Charter, or if not
prescribed therein, then in the manner provided by ordinance or resolution of
the Board of Commissioners.
Section 3. Provision Relating to Assignment, Execution and Garnishment
   The property, real and personal, belonging to the City shall not be liable
to be sold or appropriated under any writ of execution or cost bill. The funds
belonging to the City, in the hands of any person, firm or corporation shall
not be liable to garnishment; nor shall the City be liable to garnishment on
account of any debt it may owe, or funds or property it may have on hand
belonging to any person. Neither the City nor any of its officers or agents
shall be required to answer any such writ of garnishment on any account
whatsoever. The City shall not be obligated to recognize any assignment of
wages or funds by its employees, or agents or contractors.
Section 4.A. Change of Boundaries and Annexation of Territory
   The Board of Commissioners shall have the power by ordinance to fix the
boundary limits of the City and to provide for the alteration and extension of
said boundary limits, the annexation of additional territory lying adjacent to
the City, and the detachment or disannexation of territory, with or without the
consent of the owners and inhabitants of the territory annexed, detached, or
disannexed, in any manner not inconsistent with the procedural rules prescribed
by Chapter 160, page 447, Article 1, Acts of the 58th Legislature of the State
of Texas, Regular Session, 1963, as heretofore or hereafter amended, the same
being the Municipal Annexation Act. Upon the passage of any ordinance annexing
territory, the corporate limits of the City shall thereafter include the
territory so annexed; and when any additional territory has been so annexed,
the same shall be a part of the City of Alamo and the property situated therein
shall bear its pro rata part of the taxes levied by the City, and the
inhabitants thereof shall be entitled to all of the rights and privileges of
all citizens and shall be bound by the acts and ordinances, resolutions, and
regulations of the City. Upon the final passage of any ordinance detaching or
disannexing territory from the City, the corporate limits of the City shall be
reduced by the territory so detached or disannexed.
Section 4.B. Extending City Limits Upon Petition
   Whenever a majority of the qualified voters who are citizens of the State of
Texas and inhabitants of any territory adjoining the City of Alamo, as said
territory may be designated by the Board of Commissioners, or in case there are
no qualified voters in said territory, then when persons owning a majority of
land in area in said territory desires the annexation of such territory to the
City of Alamo, they may present a written petition to that effect to the Board
of Commissioners and shall attach to said petition the affidavit of one or more
of their number to the effect that said petition is signed by a majority of
such qualified voters, or in case there are no qualified voters, said affidavit
shall be to the effect that there are no qualified voters in said territory and
that the person signing said petition own a majority of the land in area in
said territory; and thereupon the Board of Commissioners at regular session
held not sooner than twenty (20) days after the presentation of said petition
may by ordinance annex such territory to the City of Alamo and thenceforth the
said territory shall be a part of the City of Alamo, and the inhabitants
thereof shall be entitled to all of the rights and privileges of other citizens
and shall be bound by the acts, ordinances, resolutions, and regulations of
said City.
ARTICLE II
GOVERNING BODY
Section 1. The Board of Commissioners
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, all powers of the City of
Alamo shall be vested in a Board of Commissioners consisting of a Mayor and
four (4) Commissioners, to be known as the Board of Commissioners of the City
of Alamo. The Board shall hold two (2) regular meetings each month at a date
and time to be fixed by the Board of Commissioners by ordinance. (Amended
Election 1-18-1992)
Section 2. Election, Tenure and Residential Requirements of the Mayor and
Commissioners
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter the Mayor and four (4)
Commissioners of the City shall be elected by the qualified voters of the
entire City of Alamo at general elections to be held for that purpose, and
shall hold office for four (4) years and until their successors shall have been
elected and qualified.
   (b)   The Mayor shall be designated as such and a candidate for such office
may reside anywhere within the City. A Commissioner shall be designated as such
and a candidate for such office may reside anywhere within the City.
   (c)   Places: There are hereby created Places No. One, No. Two, No. Three,
and No. Four. The Commissioners shall designate the place for which each of
them respectively, is a candidate, and one Commissioner shall be elected for
each such place. (Amended Election 1-18-1992)
   (d)   Officers - Election of. At the regular Municipal election for City
officials of the City of Alamo to be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November, of odd numbered years, the candidate for the office of
Mayor receiving a majority of the votes cast shall be elected Mayor and shall
hold office for four (4) years from the date of such election and until his
successor is elected and qualified. Thereafter, on the first Tuesday after the
first Monday in November each four (4) years thereafter the Mayor shall be
elected as above provided for a term of four (4) years, and thereafter until
his successor is elected and qualified. On the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November, of odd numbered years, two (2) Commissioners shall be
elected, each of whom shall serve for a four (4) year term and until his
successor is elected and qualified. (Amended Election 1-18-1992; Election 11-4-
1997)
   Any qualified voter of the City of Alamo desiring to have their name placed
upon the official ballot for any regular election may do so by presenting a
written request for that purpose signed by himself or herself, as the case may
be, or by twenty (20) qualified voters, to the Board of Commissioners and
filing the same with the City Secretary or with the Mayor by five o'clock (5:
00) P.M., Monday through Friday excluding recognizable holidays, provided such
filing is forty five (45) days prior to the date of such election.
   A vacancy in the Board of Commissioners including the office of the Mayor,
shall be filled, according to law.
   (e)   Run-Off. In the event no candidate for Mayor receives a majority of
the votes cast and/or in the event no candidate for Commissioner for a
particular Place receives a majority of the votes cast, or in the event of a
tie vote for Mayor or a tie vote for Commissioner of any Place, there shall be
a run-off election between the two (2) candidates receiving the highest number
of votes, or tied for Mayor and/or Commissioner. Such run-off election shall be
held on the first Saturday after thirty (30) days from the date of the first
election. The candidate receiving the majority of votes for the respective
office at such run-off election shall be elected.
   (f)   Canvass of Election Returns. On the first Tuesday following such
election or run-off election, or both, as the case may be, or as soon
thereafter as practicable, the Board of Commissioners then in office shall
canvass the returns and declare the election of the candidates and shall
declare the candidate receiving the majority number of votes for Mayor elected
Mayor, and the candidate receiving the majority number of votes for
Commissioner for each Place respectively elected Commissioner of such Place.
(Amended Election 1-18-1992)
Section 3. Qualifications of Mayor and Commissioners
   A person who has served in office as Mayor shall be prohibited from being
qualified to be elected and serve in the office as Mayor if that person has
served three (3) successive terms in that office immediately prior to the
election date for such office. A person who has served in office as
Commissioner, irrespective of the Place Number served, shall be prohibited from
being qualified to be elected and serve in an office as Commissioner if that
person has served three (3) successive terms in that office immediately prior
to the election date for such office. A person who has served in office as
Judge of the Municipal Court shall be prohibited from being qualified to be
elected and serve in the office as Judge of the Municipal Court if that person
has served three (3) successive terms in that office immediately prior to the
election date for such office. The term limit provisions shall become effective
on the first opposed or unopposed election of the respective office after the
enactment of this amendment. (Amended Election 11-8-2022)
Section 4. Vacancies (Repealed Election 1-18-1992)
Section 5. Salaries
   Unless and until otherwise provided by ordinance, the Mayor shall receive as
compensation for his service a salary of one thousand two hundred dollars
($1,200.00) per year, payable in equal monthly installments, and each
Commissioner shall receive a salary of six hundred dollars ($600.00) per year,
payable in equal monthly installments. No increase in the salaries of the Mayor
or Commissioners shall be implemented during the term of office of the Mayor
and any of the Commissioners, except by the qualified voters for the City of
Alamo through a referendum vote, except an annual percentage increase equal to
the national cost of living ratio according to the Federal statistics for the
area covering the City of Alamo, voted and approved by a unanimous vote of the
present Commissioners. (Amended Election 1-18-1992)
Section 6. Forfeiture of Offices
   A Mayor or Commissioner shall forfeit his office if the Mayor or
Commissioner: 1) lacks at any time during his term of office, any
qualifications for the office prescribed by the Charter or by law; or 2)
violates any express prohibition of the Charter; or 3) is convicted of a
felony; or 4) fails to attend four (4) consecutive regular meetings or eight
(8) regular meetings of the Board of Commissioners in any anniversary year of
such person; or 5) fails to reside in the City of Alamo. (Amended Election 1-
18-1992; Election 11-4-1997)
Section 7. Official Oath
   Each person elected by the voters of the City of Alamo, or appointed by the
Board of Commissioners to fill any elective or appointive office, shall, before
entering upon the duties of said office, take and subscribe to the official
oath as provided by the Constitution of the State of Texas. Each Commissioner
and the Mayor and such other officers as the Board of Commissioners may
designate are hereby authorized to administer oaths in the Municipal affairs
and government of the City of Alamo.
Section 8. Official Bond of City Officers
   The Board of Commissioners shall require any elected or appointed officer of
the City to give bond with such surety and in such sum as may be prescribed by
ordinance, which sum shall always be of sufficient amount to protect the City.
The premium for such bond shall be paid for by the City.
Section 9. Officers and Employees Salaries
   The Board of Commissioners shall have authority to fix all salaries and
remuneration of all offices either elective or appointive and all employees of
the City of Alamo. (Amended Election 1-18-1992)
Section 10. Mayor - Powers and Duties
   The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the City of Alamo and
shall see that all laws thereof are enforced. He shall be clothed with all the
authority that is now or may hereafter be vested in a Mayor by the General Laws
of the State of Texas so far as the same may be applicable and not inconsistent
with this Charter.
ARTICLE III
LEGISLATION AND PROCEDURES
Section 1. Meeting of the Board of Commissioners
   At seven o'clock (7:00) in the evening of the first Tuesday in November
following a regular Municipal election, the Board of Commissioners shall meet
at the usual place for holding its meetings and the newly elected members shall
assume the duties of office. If there are any Commissioner/Mayor offices
undecided at that time, then the office holder shall continue in office until
the first regular meeting after a run-off election has been held, and a
candidate duly elected and qualified. (Amended Election 1-18-1992; Election 11-
4-1997)
Section 2. Mayor Pro Tem - Election and Duties
   At the first regular meeting after all the candidates for the Board of
Commissioners have been inducted into office, it shall be the duty of the Board
to elect one of its members by a majority vote of the Board, who shall be known
as the Mayor Pro Tem, and who shall continue to hold the title and office until
the expiration of the term of office for which he was elected by the
Commissioners. If for any reason the Mayor is absent from the City, sick,
unable or unwilling to perform the duties of his office, then, the Mayor Pro
Tem shall act as Mayor and he shall be vested with all the powers and shall
perform all of the duties of the Mayor for as long as the Mayor shall be unable
or unwilling to serve. In case of the absence of both the Mayor and the Mayor
Pro Tem, the remaining Commissioners shall elect one of their members to act
instead of the Mayor or the Mayor Pro Tem.
Section 3. City Secretary
   The Board of Commissioners shall appoint the City Secretary who shall serve
at the pleasure of the Board of Commissioners. The City Secretary shall keep
the records of the Board of Commissioners, and shall have such other duties and
responsibilities as may be assigned to him/her by this Charter or by the City
Manager and the Board of Commissioners.
Section 4.A. Rules of the Board of Commissioners
   The Board of Commissioners shall be the judge of the election and
qualifications of its members and in such cases, shall have the power to
subpoena witnesses and compel the production of all pertinent books, records,
papers and other pertinent information; but the decision of the Board of
Commissioners in any such case shall be subject to review by the Courts.
Section 4.B.
   The Board of Commissioners shall determine its own rules and order of
business and keep a journal of its proceedings. It shall have the power to
punish its members for disorderly behavior, and by vote of not less than a
majority of all its members, may expel from any meeting, a member for
disorderly conduct or the violation of its rules; but no member shall be
expelled unless notified of the charge against him/her and given an opportunity
to be heard in his/her behalf.
Section 4.C.
   Any resident, citizen or property taxpayer of the City of Alamo shall have a
right to bring an action to the District Court of Hidalgo County, Texas, or in
any court of proper jurisdiction, for the removal from office of any officer of
the City of Alamo for malfeasance or misfeasance in office and in such actions
will be governed by the General Laws of the State of Texas applicable to such
proceedings.
Section 4.D. Recall Election
   On petition of twenty percent (20%) or more of the registered voters of the
City of Alamo, according to the most recent voter registration list at the time
of the filing of the petition, requesting the recall of the Mayor or a City
Commissioner, the City Commission shall order an election on such issue. A
petition shall not be considered unless the office holder named therein has
been in office at least two (2) years from the date of the last election for
such office. Such petition shall meet the applicable requirements of the Texas
Election Code. The election shall be held on the earliest available election
date after the verification of the petition by the City Commission. The ballot
for the election shall be printed to provide for the voting of "For" or
"Against" the proposition: RECALL OF (OFFICER'S NAME) (OFFICE HELD). The
election shall be conducted and canvassed under the provision of law for a
special election of the City of Alamo. If a majority of voters voting in such
election approve the proposition, then such office shall be vacated and an
election shall be called in accordance with the law for the filling of the
vacated position to be held on the earliest date possible under law. (Added
Election 1-18-1992)
Section 5. Quorum
   A majority of all the members of the Board of Commissioners shall constitute
a quorum to do business, but a less number may adjourn from time to time and
compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under such penalties
as may be prescribed by ordinance. The affirmative vote of a majority of all
the members of the Board of Commissioners shall be necessary to adopt any
ordinance, resolution, or order; except that a vote to adjourn, or an action
regarding the attendance of absent members, may be adopted by a majority of the
members present. No member may be excused from voting except on matters
involving the consideration of his own official conduct or when his financial
interests are involved.
Section 6. Ordinances - Power to Enact and Passage
   The Board of Commissioners of the City of Alamo shall be vested with the
power and charged with the duty of making all laws or ordinances not
inconsistent with the Constitution of the State of Texas, touching every
subject and matter within the local government, same to include the power to
impose fines and penalties for the violation of same. They shall have the power
and authority, in the government, management and control of the City of Alamo,
which are not specifically delegated to some other authority and they may pass
any ordinances they may desire delegating any part of their authority and
duties to any other person, offices or employee, not inconsistent with the
Constitution or laws of the State of Texas. When any ordinance has been passed
by the Mayor, it shall be deemed a law, and such ordinance or its descriptive
caption shall be published in the official newspaper at least once, but shall
become effective from and after the date of its passage.
Section 7. Official Newspaper
   The Board of Commissioners shall as soon as practicable after their election
name a newspaper with general circulation in the City of Alamo as the official
newspaper thereof, and shall cause to be published therein all ordinances,
notices and other matters required by this Charter or by existing or future
ordinances of the City.
Section 8. Existing Ordinances
   All ordinances, laws, rules, and regulations now in force in the City of
Alamo and all penal laws of the State of Texas shall remain in full force and
effect until such time as the Board of Commissioners shall change, alter or
repeal same; except that any ordinance or law of the City of Alamo now in force
that is in conflict with the provisions of this Charter shall immediately be
void.
ARTICLE IV
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
Section 1. City Manager
   A.   Appointments and Qualifications:
   The Board of Commissioners by majority vote of all of the Board of
Commissioners may appoint and remove, at will, the City Manager who shall be
the chief administrative officer of the City and be responsible to the Board of
Commissioners for the efficient administration of all affairs of the City. The
Board of Commissioners shall fix the salary of the City Manager.
   The position shall be advertised in appropriate publications prior to
selecting the applicant. The City Manager shall be chosen from applications
submitted to the Board of Commissioners whose decision shall be based on their
executive and administrative training, experience and ability of the
candidates. Any candidate shall hold a minimum of a Baccalaureate Degree in a
related field and/or shall have three (3) years experience in an administrative
or management position with a City of similar governmental entity. When
appointed, he need not be a resident of the City of Alamo. An elected official
cannot serve as City Manager.
   B.   Powers and Duties of the City Manager:
   The City Manager shall be responsible to the Board of Commissioners for the
administration of City business in accordance with this Charter. The City
Manager shall have the following powers and duties:
      i.   The City Manager shall see that all laws, provisions of this Charter
and acts of the Board of Commissioners are faithfully executed.
      ii.   The City Manager shall appoint and remove, subject to consultation
with the Board of Commissioners, all department heads as so designated by the
Board of Commissioners from time to time under the adoption of organization
plans for City operations; and without such consultation all other City
employees. The Board of Commissioners hereby retains authority of appointment
or removal of all officers enumerated under this Charter. The City Manager may
authorize any administrative officer who is subject to his direction and
supervision to exercise these powers with respect to subordinates in that
officer's department, office or agency.
      iii.   The City Manager shall promulgate a personal management system for
all City employees to be approved and amended from time to time by the Board of
Commissioners. The City Manager shall not have the power to establish any
contractual right or property interest in or for City employees relating to
their job or employment with the City. The City Manager shall make an
evaluation of all department heads and administrative officers at least
annually and submit the same to the City Commission.
      iv.   The City Manager shall direct and supervise the administration of
all departments, officers and agencies of the City, except as otherwise
provided by this Charter or by law.
      v.   The city manager shall attend all meetings of the board of
commissioners and shall have the right to take part in discussions, but shall
not have the right to vote.
      vi.   The city manager shall prepare and submit the annual budget and
make available to the public a complete report of the finances and
administrative activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year.
      vii.   The city manager shall make such other reports as the board of
commissioners may require concerning the operation of the city departments,
offices and agencies.
      viii. The city manager shall keep the board of commissioners fully
advised as to the financial condition and future needs of the city and make
such recommendations to the board of commissioners concerning the affairs of
the city throughout a comprehensive long term capital improvements program.
      ix.   The city manager shall direct and supervise the development of a
five and ten-year comprehensive long term capital improvements plan. This plan
shall include proposed, annual improvements for the first five (5) years and
then a general projection of needs for years six (6) through ten (10). The plan
shall include proposed projects, cost, financing and priority ratings. The plan
shall be updated once annually and presented to the board of commissioners as
part of the budgetary process.
      x.   The city manager shall perform such other duties as are specified in
the charter or may be required by the board of commissioners. (Amended Election
1-18-1992)
Section 2. Department Of Police
   There shall be established and maintained a department of police within the
city. The chief of police shall be the chief administrative officer of the
department of police. The chief of police shall be appointed by a majority vote
of the full board of commissioners and shall serve at the pleasure of the board
of commissioners and may be removed with or without cause by a majority vote of
the full board of commissioners. The chief of police shall be responsible for
the administration of the police department. (Amended Election 1-18-1992)
Section 3. Special Police Force
   Whenever the mayor shall deem it necessary in order to enforce the laws of
the city of Alamo, or to avert danger to, or protect life or property, in case
of riot, or any outbreak, or calamity, or public disturbance, or when he has
reason to fear any serious violation of law or order, or any other danger to
said city or the inhabitants thereof, he shall have the power to summon into
service a special police force as provided by the general laws of the state of
Texas.
Section 4. Fire Department
   There shall be established and maintained a volunteer fire department for
the prevention, as much as possible, of fires, and limiting the destruction,
injury, or loss of property or life due to fires. The fire department may come
to the aid of the city or any citizen who may be faced with a destructive
crisis other than a fire. The fire department shall establish its own charter
and bylaws. The members of the fire department shall elect their own officers
as designated in the charter and bylaws of the fire department. All personnel
employed by the fire department other than volunteers shall be appointed by the
board of commissioners upon recommendation from the chief of the fire
department and the city manager. Compensation of the fire department members
and officers shall be fixed by the board of commissioners. In case of
emergency, the fire department may go outside of the city limits and also may
solicit the aid of fire departments of surrounding communities.
Section 5. City Attorney
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a competent and duly licensed
attorney practicing law in Hidalgo County, Texas, who shall be the city
attorney. He shall receive for his services such compensation as may be fixed
by the board of commissioners and shall hold his office at the pleasure of the
board of commissioners. The city attorney or such other attorney selected by
him with the approval of the board of commissioners, shall represent the city
in all litigation. He shall be the legal advisor of and counsel for, the city
of Alamo and all officers and departments thereof.
Section 6. Corporation Court
   There shall be established and maintained a court designated as municipal
court for the trial of misdemeanor offenses, with all such powers as are now or
hereafter may be prescribed by laws of the state of Texas relative to municipal
or corporation courts.
   At the November uniform election date and each four (4) years thereafter
there shall be elected a judge of the municipal court whose term of office
shall be for four (4) years. The judge of the municipal court shall possess the
same qualifications of the office as provided in this charter for the mayor and
commissioners and as specified in article II, section 3. The judge of the
municipal court shall serve until a successor is elected and qualified. The
same election rules that apply to the board of commissioners shall apply to the
election of judge of municipal court, however when a vacancy exists by reason
of resignation, death, disability, or otherwise, the same shall be filled by
appointment of the board of commissioners for the unexpired term.
   The salary of the judge of the municipal court shall be set by the board of
commissioners at least sixty (60) days before and not more than ninety (90)
days before the election and the salary shall remain the same during the term
of office until reconsideration by the board of commissioners at least sixty
(60) days and not more than ninety (90) days before the next succeeding
election. The municipal court judge shall submit monthly financial reports to
the city commissioners. (Amended Election 1-18-1992; Election 11-3-2009)
Section 7. Clerk Of Corporation Court
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a clerk of the municipal court to
serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners. The city secretary may be
appointed clerk of the municipal court and he/she may be authorized to serve in
the capacity either in person or by deputy. Such clerk of the corporation court
shall receive such compensation as may be set by the board of commissioners.
Section 8. Other Departments
   The board of commissioners may create other departments and may discontinue
any offices or departments at its discretion except those specifically
established by this charter.
Section 9. Planning And Zoning Commission
   The board of commissioners shall appoint a planning and zoning commission
composed of seven (7) members. The board of commissioners shall provide for a
manner of appointment and term of offices as set by ordinance. The planning and
zoning commission's functions, duties, responsibilities and powers shall be
established by ordinance pursuant to the Local Government Code and other
applicable state law. Each member of the planning and zoning commission shall
be a resident of the city of Alamo. (Added Election 1-18-1992)
ARTICLE V
TAXATION AND FINANCING
Section 1. Taxation
   The board of commissioners shall provide for the collection of ad valorem
taxation within the city according to the state law regulating such collection.
The duties of the city, whether handled by the city or delegated to a third
party are as listed in sections
2 through
8 in this article. (Amended Election 1-18-1992)
Section 2. Financing
   The board of commissioners shall have full power and authority to finance
the city. It shall be its duty through its officers to levy, assess and collect
all taxes necessary for the proper operation of the city government and in the
levying, assessing and collecting of the taxes they shall be limited only by
the constitution of the state of Texas. The board of commissioners shall levy,
assess and collect taxes on all taxable property within the above limits for
the year 1979, and for the subsequent years, a tax sufficient to meet all of
the general and running expenses of the government of the city of Alamo and to
create sinking funds sufficient to pay off and retire all indebtedness of the
city of Alamo. At the first meeting in July of each year, or as soon thereafter
as practicable, the board of commissioners shall calculate the amount of taxes
necessary for that year and shall pass an ordinance levying tax on all taxable
property within the city of Alamo, sufficient to pay the current expenses of
the city of Alamo and create interest and sinking funds sufficient to retire
the indebtedness of the city.
Section 3. Delinquent Taxes
   When taxes for any one year have been returned delinquent, the board of
commissioners may, in its discretion, certify the same to the city attorney,
whose duty it will be, in case of real property, to bring suit in the court of
proper jurisdiction for the collection of the taxes and the enforcement of the
liens. In the bringing of said tax suits, the city attorney shall be governed
by the same rules and regulations that are now, or may hereafter, be applicable
to the bringing of suits for the collection of state and county taxes.
Section 4.
   The City of Alamo shall abide by the value set by the Pharr-San Juan-Alamo
School Office Board of Equalization so long as Pharr-San Juan-Alamo tax office
is the tax assessor-collector. In the event they are no longer tax assessor-
collector, then the Board of Commissioners shall annually at their first
meeting in April, or as soon thereafter as practicable, appoint three (3)
Commissioners, each a qualified voter, a resident and property owner of the
City of Alamo, who shall be styled the Board of Equalization. At the same
meeting said Board of Commissioners shall, by ordinance, fix the time for the
meeting of such Board. Before said Board enters its duties, it shall be sworn
to faithfully and impartially discharge all duties incumbent upon it by law as
such Board. The Board of Equalization shall have such powers and be governed by
the same rules and regulations prescribed by Chapter 5 Title 28 of the Revised
Statutes of the State of Texas for cities of more than five thousand (5,000)
inhabitants.
Section 5.
   All property, real, personal, and mixed situated in the City of Alamo shall
stand charged with a special lien in favor of the City for the taxes due
thereon, which lien, charge or encumbrance the City is entitled to enforce and
foreclose in any Court having jurisdiction over the same or in any other manner
provided by law. Such lien shall be prior to all other claims, and no gift,
sale, assignment or transfer of any kind, or judicial writ of any kind, can
ever defeat such lien.
Section 6.
   In the issuance of bonds, warrants, or other certificates of indebtedness,
the Board of Commissioners shall be governed by the General Laws of the State
of Texas applicable to the same.
Section 7. Depository
   All moneys received by any department or agency for or in connection with
the business of the City government shall be paid promptly into the treasury
and shall be deposited with the depository of the City, which shall be selected
as provided by law for selecting City depositories. All interest on moneys
belonging to the City shall accrue to the benefit of the City government. Said
bank shall be within the City of Alamo.
Section 8. Fiscal Year
   The fiscal year of the City of Alamo shall begin on the first day of October
and shall end on the last day of September of each calendar year. Such fiscal
year shall also constitute the budget and accounting year.
ARTICLE VI
REAL ESTATE
Section 1.
   All real estate owned or held by lease, sufferance, easement, or otherwise,
all public buildings, market houses, fire stations, schools, parks, streets,
alleys, and all property of whatever kind, character, and description, which
has been granted, donated, purchased, or otherwise acquired by the City of
Alamo by any means or agency, and all cause of action, choses in action, right
or privileges of every kind and character, and all property of whatever
character and description which may have been held, controlled, and used by
said City of Alamo for public use or in trust for the public, shall vest in and
remain in and inure to the said corporation of the City of Alamo under this
Charter, and all suits and pending actions to which the City of Alamo
heretofore was, or now is a party, plaintiff, or defendant, shall in no wise be
affected or terminated by the provisions of this act, but shall continue
unabated.
Section 2.
   Article 969b of Vernon's Annotated Texas Statutes, entitled "Authorization;
modes and purpose of acquisition; procedure; relocation expense"; is hereby
adopted for the purposes of governing the acquisition of real property by the
City of Alamo.
Section 3.
   All obligations or liabilities of the City of Alamo shall become and are
herein expressly assumed by the City of Alamo under this Charter.
Section 4.
   The Fire Chief shall be the chief administrative officer of the Fire
Department who shall be appointed by a majority vote of the full board of
commissioners and shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners and
may be removed with or without cause by a majority vote of the full board of
commissioners. (Amended Election 11-8-2022)
ARTICLE VII
AMENDMENT
Section 1.
   This Charter may be amended at any time by complying with the General Laws
or Special Laws of the State of Texas applicable in such cases.
ARTICLE VIII
AUDITOR
Section 1.
   There shall be appointed by the Board of Commissioners each year a certified
public accountant or licensed public accountant, who shall make a full and
complete audit of all books and accounts of the City of Alamo and of its
departments, and shall make a complete report of said audit to the Board of
Commissioners to be filed by it and to be open for inspection to the public as
a public record, said auditor to be paid such compensation as may be fixed by
the Board of Commissioners.
ARTICLE IX
SEVERABILITY
Section 1.
   A holding of any section or article of this Charter invalid by any court, or
the abolishing of the same by any act of the Legislature, shall not affect the
remainder of this Charter, but all of said Charter which has not specifically
been held invalid shall remain in full force and effect.
I hereby certify that:
   This City Charter was amended by the voters of the City of Alamo in an
election held on January 18, 1992, and was adopted by the Board of
Commissioners of the City of Alamo by means of Resolution No. 1-21-92 at a
regular City meeting held on January 21, 1992.
                     /s/ Minerva Montes
                     Minerva Montes, City Secretary
                     City of Alamo
 
S E A L
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of Commissioners, this City Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Alamo.
This City Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the ALAMO CITY CODE
and is hereby published by authority of the Board and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1994 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1994 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1994 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
Board of Commissioners. The City Secretary shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
Secretary. Any person having in his custody a copy of the City Code shall make
every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of
the City Secretary. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials
and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and
shall be returned to the office of the City Secretary when directed so to do by
order of the Board of Commissioners. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways and Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1994 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1994 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Former Offenses: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal
a former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable, if any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Application: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Pending: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed
as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance
of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances
contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a
new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as
discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue,
or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving
any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the
time of the adoption of this City Code. (1994 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The Board of
Commissioners hereby declares that it would have passed each section,
subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof
irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, subsections,
subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties or persons and females
as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1994 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meaning herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
   AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
   CITY: The City of Alamo, County of Hidalgo, State of Texas.
   CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Alamo.
   COUNTY: The County of Hidalgo, State of Texas.
   EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
City of Alamo".
   FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
   NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or
any act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
   OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
   OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of
any act required by the provisions of this Code.
   OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Alamo".
   OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or
profession.
   OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
   PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
   RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the
consumer.
   RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
   STATE: The State of Texas.
   STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
   TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
   WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this
Code, unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to
the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for
the purpose of resale.
   WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his proper
mark. (1994 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such section, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Class C Misdemeanors; Arrest and Notice to Appear
1-4-3: Application of Provisions
1-4-4: Liability of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
If in this Code or in any ordinance of the City, an act is prohibited or is
made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or if in this
Code or those ordinances, the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, then the violation of any such provision of
this Code or any such ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five
hundred dollars ($500.00); providing, however, that any violation of an
ordinance governing fire safety, zoning or public health and sanitation shall
be punished by a maximum fine of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00); provided,
however, that if the minimum or maximum penalty provided by this Code for any
such offense is less or greater than the maximum penalty provided for the same
or similar offense under the laws of the State 1 , then the minimum or maximum
penalty for violation as provided by State statute shall be the minimum or
maximum penalty under this Code. Each day any violation of this Code or of any
ordinance continues shall constitute a separate offense. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Local Government Code §54.001 et seq.
1-4-2: CLASS C MISDEMEANORS; ARREST AND NOTICE TO APPEAR:
   A.   Arrests: Whenever any police officer of the City arrests any person for
any violation of any City ordinance heretofore or hereinafter adopted by the
Board of Commissioners of the City, the police officer shall take the person
arrested or have them taken without necessary delay before a judge who has
jurisdiction of such offense, except as specifically provided in subsection B
of this Section. If a judge is not immediately available upon the arrest of
such person, then such person shall be incarcerated in the Municipal jail in
the City until a judge is made available for the purposes of arraigning such
individual in accordance with law 1 .
   B.   Citation: A police officer who is charging a person with committing an
offense classified as a Class C offense under the Penal Code of the State of
Texas, other than an offense under section 42.08 of the Penal Code, or for any
offense in violation of any ordinance of the City may, instead of taking a
person before the judge, issue a citation to a person that contains written
notice of the time and place that the person must appear before a judge, the
name and address of the person charged and the offense charged. The citation
shall specify in the notice to appear that such person must appear before the
Municipal Court or other judge not less than three (3) days nor more than
fourteen (14) days from the date of the issuance of the citation.
   C.   Promise to Appear:
      1.   The arrested person, in order to secure release as provided for in
this subsection, must sign a written promise to appear in court by signing in
duplicate the written notice prepared by the arresting officer. The original of
such notice shall be retained by the officer and a copy of that delivered to
the person arrested. Thereupon, the officer shall forthwith release the
arrested person from custody.
      2.   A written promise to appear in court may be complied with by an
appearance by counsel.
   D.   False Information: It shall be unlawful for any person, when given a
written promise to appear, or given a written notice by any police officer to
appear before a Municipal court, to give an assumed or fictitious name or a
false place of residence or address upon request of such officer.
   E.   Violation and Penalties: Any person wilfully violating his written
promise to appear in court, given as provided for in this Section, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less than one dollar
($1.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for conviction thereof,
regardless of the disposition of the charge for which the person was originally
arrested. (Ord., 5-5-92; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. V.T.C.A., Code of Criminal Procedure §26.01 et seq.
   
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this City Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this City Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes
a breach of any section or provision of this City Code and there shall be no
fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this
Chapter shall apply. (1994 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this City Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the Board of Commissioners to impose such fine or penalty on such
officer or employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section
creating the duty. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 5
BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Meetings
 
Notes
1 1. See article II of the city charter for governing body provisions.
1-5-1: MEETINGS 2 :
   A.   Regular Meetings; Location:
      1.   Regular meetings of the board of commissioners shall be held on the
first and third Tuesdays of each month at six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
      2.   All city commission meetings will be held at the Alamo municipal
building at 420 N. Tower Road, Alamo, Texas.
   B.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Special meetings may be called as necessary by the mayor or by two
(2) commissioners.
      2.   Special meetings called in cases of emergency or urgent public
necessity shall be an exception from compliance required by the provisions of
subsection C of this section.
   C.   Sign In; Public Comments:
      1.   A sign in or attendance sheet shall be made available by the city
secretary at every regular or special city commission meeting prior to the
commencement of the meeting so that all citizens that desire to have their
attendance reflected at such meeting shall have the opportunity to sign the
sign in or attendance sheet. At the end of such meeting, the city secretary
shall gather up such sign in or attendance sheet and attach same to the minutes
prepared for such meeting as finally approved by the city commission. Signing
on the sign in or attendance sheet is not mandatory and is not a requirement to
citizens attending the city commission meeting.
      2.   Any citizen wishing to address the city commission during the public
comment portion of the agenda shall, prior to that specific item coming up in
the city commission meeting, fill out a public comment statement form which
shall include the person's name, and the subject of the general comments to be
made to the city commission during such period. Failure to execute the public
comment form shall preclude a person from speaking at the public comment time.
         a.   All citizens that participate or address the city commission
shall address items on the agenda.
         b.   No citizen will be allowed to personally attack city employees or
members of the city commission.
         c.   A time limitation of five (5) minutes will be allowed to each
citizen.
         d.   Citizens that do not follow the above rules will not be allowed
to participate under the citizen's participation item.
   D.   Agenda/Meeting Place:
      1.   All reports, communications, ordinances, resolutions, contract
documents or other matters to be considered by the city commission shall be
submitted to the city secretary and all such items except those items requested
by the mayor or any city commissioner shall be forwarded to the city manager's
office not later than the Thursday, prior to the Tuesday, city commission
meeting in which the matters will be heard. The mayor or any commissioner may
place such items by written, telephonic or oral request by giving the city
manager notice thereof no later than Thursday, five o'clock (5:00) P.M. on the
Thursday before the Tuesday of the regularly scheduled meeting. The mayor shall
review all requests and determine whether or not the subject matter is such
that it requires consideration by an applicable appointed advisory board,
commission or department of the city or may be handled without city commission
consideration. If, in the mayor's opinion, a particular item should be
considered by an advisory board, commission or department prior to city
commission consideration, it shall be referred to the applicable board,
commission or department. The city manager upon the instruction of the mayor
shall provide the requesting party be notified that the proposed item has been
transferred for preliminary consideration.
      2.   The regularly scheduled meetings of the city commission shall be
held at the Alamo City Hall, 420 N. Tower Road, Alamo, Texas, within the city
limits of the city of Alamo. Unless otherwise posted in the notice therefor,
all special meetings shall be held at the Alamo City Hall, but are not required
to be held at such location where the nature of the meeting requires that the
meeting be held at another location.
   E.   Order Of Procedure:
      1.   Robert's Rules Of Order: The city hereby adopts "Robert's Rules Of
Order" as a guide for parliamentary procedure for the conducting of the city
board of commissioner's meetings and for all meetings of the appointed boards
and commissions of the city. The failure to literally follow "Robert's Rules Of
Order" shall not act to invalidate any action taken by the commissioners by
motion made, seconded and properly acted upon.
      2.   Agenda Schedule: The order of procedure shall follow the order of
the agenda; however, the mayor, absent any objection from any commissioner,
shall have the authority to vary the order of procedure, in order to expedite
the proceedings; provided, that no person shall be denied their right to
address the board on an agenda item on the date for which the item is scheduled
because of a variance to the order of procedure.
   F.   Addressing The Board:
      1.   Recognition: No person shall address the city board of commissioners
without first being recognized by the mayor.
      2.   Residents: Any resident of the city who wishes to address the board
concerning an agenda item which is under consideration by the board may do so
upon receiving recognition as specified in subsection F1 of this section. Any
resident may address the board through his authorized representative.
      3.   Nonresidents: Any nonresidents wishing to address the board
concerning an agenda item which is then under consideration by the board shall,
upon receiving recognition as specified in subsection F1 of this section, state
their place of residence and their interests in the matter being considered.
Nonresidents shall be allowed to address the board if the mayor finds that they
are so situated that the disposition of the agenda item may as a practical
matter impair or impede their ability to protect that interest. Any nonresident
qualified to address the board hereunder may do so through their authorized
representative.
      4.   Presentations:
         a.   Addressing The Board: Each person addressing the board shall give
his name and address in an audible tone of voice for the record, state the
subject he wishes to discuss, state whom he is representing if he represents an
organization or other person, and unless further time is granted by majority
vote of the board, shall limit his remarks to five (5) minutes, excluding the
time when interrupted by a member of the board for questions or comments. All
remarks shall be addressed to the board as a whole and not any member thereof.
No person other than members of the board and the person having the floor shall
be permitted to enter into any discussion, either directly or through a member
of the board, without the permission of the presiding officer. No question may
be asked a board member or a member of the city staff without the permission of
the presiding officer.
         b.   Spokesperson: In order to expedite matters and to avoid
repetitious presentations, whenever any identifiable group of persons wishes to
address the board on the same subject matter, it shall be proper for the
presiding officer to request that a spokesperson be chosen by the group to
address the board and, in case additional matters are to be presented by any
other member of said group, to limit the number of such persons addressing the
board.
      5.   Motion To Close Public Hearing: After a motion has been made or a
public hearing has been closed, no member of the public shall address the board
from the audience on the matter under consideration without first securing
permission to do so by a majority vote of the city board of commissioners.
   G.   Order And Decorum:
      1.   Commission Members: While the board is in session, the members must
preserve order and decorum, and a member shall neither, by conversation or
otherwise, delay or interrupt the proceedings or the peace of the board nor
disturb any member while speaking or refuse to obey the orders of the presiding
officer.
      2.   Employees: Members of the city staff and employees shall observe the
same rules of order and decorum as are applicable to the city board of
commissioners.
      3.   Persons Addressing The Board: Any person who wilfully utters loud,
threatening or abusive language or engages in any disorderly conduct which
would impede, disrupt or disturb the orderly conduct of any meeting, hearing or
other proceeding shall be called to order by the presiding officer and, if such
conduct continues, may, at the discretion of the presiding officer, be ordered
barred from further audience before the board during that meeting.
      4.   Members Of The Audience: No person in the audience shall engage in
disorderly conduct such as hand clapping, stamping of feet, whistling, yelling
and similar demonstrations, which conduct disturbs the peace and good order of
the meeting.
      5.   Disturbance Abatement:
         a.   Warning: All persons shall, at the request of the presiding
officer, be silent. If, after receiving a warning from the presiding officer, a
person persists in disturbing the meeting, said officer may order him to remove
himself from the meeting. If he does not remove himself, the presiding officer
may order the sergeant at arms to remove him.
         b.   Removal: The chief of police, or such member of the police
department as the presiding officer may designate, shall be sergeant at arms of
the board meetings. The chief shall carry out all orders and instructions given
by the presiding officer for the purpose of maintaining order and decorum at
the board meeting. Upon instruction of the presiding officer, it shall be the
duty of the sergeant at arms to remove from the meeting any person who
intentionally disturbs the proceedings of the board.
         c.   Resisting Removal: It shall be unlawful for any person to resist
removal by the sergeant at arms.
         d.   Motions To Enforce: Any board member may move to require the
presiding officer to enforce these rules and the affirmative vote of a majority
of the board shall require him to do so.
         e.   Adjournment: In the event that any meeting is wilfully disturbed
by a group of persons as to render the orderly conduct of such meeting
unfeasible and when order cannot be restored by the removal of individuals who
are creating the disturbance, the meeting may be adjourned and the remaining
business considered at the next regular meeting.
   H.   Recording Devices: Cameras, including television and motion picture
cameras, electronic sound recording devices and other mechanical, electrical or
electronic recording devices may be used in a reasonable manner in the public
section of the board of commissioner's chamber. (Ord. 625, 4-19-1977; amd. Ord.
681, 8-29-1979; Ord. 8-04-92A, 8-4-1992; 1994 Code; Ord. 1-4-94A, 1-4-1994;
Ord. 9-01-98, 9-1-1998; Res., 9-15-1998; Ord. 12-10-11, 10-4-2011; Ord. 08-02-
21, - -2021)
 
Notes
2 2. See also article III, section 1 of the city charter.
CHAPTER 5A
ELECTIONEERING POLICIES
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Electioneering Policies
1-5A-1: ELECTIONEERING POLICIES:
   A.   Electioneering will include the posting, use, or distribution of
political signs, cards, placards, or literature; including flags, and anything
similar that is tangible and designed to call one's attention to a certain
candidate and/or proposition. The following shall be exempt from
electioneering: wearing of shirts, caps, hats, facial masks, buttons, or
similar gear that reflect a political message. With this preface as a
foundation to understand what 'electioneering' is defined as, the City of
Alamo, Texas hereby declares the following as it pertains to permitted but
restricted electioneering conduct near its official polling site, being the
Sergeant Fernando de la Rosa Memorial Library, which hereafter may be referred
to as 'library':
      1.   In compliance to Sec. 61.003 (a), of Texas' Election Code, Title 6,
Chapter 61, Subchapter A, there shall be no electioneering "during the voting
period within one hundred feet (100') of an outside door through which a voter
may enter the building in which a polling place is located." The City of Alamo
interprets this provision to mean that there can be no electioneering on
property less than one hundred feet (100') to the polling sites' entry door;
but the City could establish a (reasonable) distance to be more than one
hundred feet (100'), especially given the current logistics of perimeter
streets, paved parking lots, etc.
      2.   Whether on public property (ROW, city-owned premises, etc.) or
privately owned property (as may be consented by affected property owners to
allow electioneers on their private premises), and as it pertains to
electioneering near the City's polling site, the City of Alamo will permit for
each candidate or a proposition’s campaign, the placement of one (1), but no
more than two (2), tents or similar shelter throughout the voting period. There
will be no set limit on signage in and around the Electioneering Permissible
Area (EIPA), whether on right-of-way or private property, but the City strongly
encourages a respectful and reasonable limit be evident per political candidate
and/or proposition. There shall be no signage, banner, and/or any other type of
political expression posted on, in, or over the following premises as owned by
the City of Alamo: City Hall premises, Library premises, Police Department
premises, Municipal Court premises.
      3.   The EIPA is more particularly described as follows:
         a.   Save and except the twenty feet (20') immediately east of Tower
Road as it intersects to Los Alamos Street, the EIPA will include only the
elongated area along the south side of Los Alamos Road, east of Tower Road, to
the eastern alignment of 4th Street; and
         b.   Save and except the twenty feet (20') immediately east of Tower
as it intersects to Duranta Avenue, east of Tower Road, will include the
elongated area along the north side of Duranta, to the eastern alignment of 4th
Street. Exhibit A is attached to Ord. 21-04-21 to further depict the two (2)
authorized EIPA areas, a copy of which will be readily available in the Office
of the City Secretary.
      4.   To more fully establish a respectful voting experience, as well as
promoting traffic- pedestrian safety between the incoming voting public and
electioneers, the following shall be imposed:
         a.   There shall be no typical electioneering on or within the red-
lined depicted areas in Exhibit A as attached to Ord. 21-04-21 (inclusive of
the no-electioneering twenty foot by twenty foot (20' x 20') triangular corner
clip areas at SE Tower/Los Alamos; and on all four (4) corners of Tower/Duranta
Avenue which are beyond the permitted EIPA).
         b.   Electioneering representatives shall not approach moving or non-
moving vehicles as they are in the process of participating in the election
process.
         c.   However, there may be electioneering conduct permitted in the
form of people carrying a sign(s), etc., along the paved sidewalks along Tower
Road, Duranta Avenue, and Los Alamos; but said person(s) shall always be
mobile, e.g., keep moving, and shall not use megaphones or other amplification
equipment or inventive methods, since such would tend to risk traffic safety
(distracting). It is a violation to this regulation if electioneers just stand
in one (non-EIPA) sidewalk area to express their vote preference.
         d.   In a prudent measure to not congest the sidewalks with a sudden
influx of mobile electioneers walking up and down Tower Road (which has high
traffic patterns), there shall be no more than one (1) person per campaign
allowed to sidewalk electioneer per road; hereinafter referred to as “Mobile
Sidewalk Electioneering (MSE).’ However, realizing that the number of
propositions and number of candidates may fluctuate (increase or decrease) from
year to year, the City Manager may adjust the number of MSE persons/campaign
for that particular election year.
      5.   Typical methods of electioneering, as described herein, shall only
be permitted in the depicted EIPA area on the south side of Los Alamos Street.
      6.   On any tents, or similar structures used to provide shelter, that
may be used within the appropriate boundaries of the EIPA, no banners, signs,
(political) flags, placards, or other political material of whatever material
or nature, will be affixed to any part of the tents' structure, inclusive of
its' support poles.
      7.   All tents, or similar structures that provide shelter, plus signs,
banners, flags, posters, or any other tangible political messaging, shall be
entirely removed from the EIPA no later than one (1) day after the voting ends
during the entire pre- election day period. On Election Day, all tents,
sheltering structures, signs, banners, flags, posters, or other political
messaging will be removed no later than one (1) day after the voting ends.
      8.   Within the EIPA, there shall be no use of loudspeakers, microphones,
megaphones, amplified devices, or any other similar equipment not defined in
paragraph A of this Chapter as 'electioneering' on city owned or private
property at any time before, during, or after the voting period. It is deemed
that such loud amplification messaging is distracting enough that may risk
traffic accidents. It is noted that 'voting period' is as defined in Texas'
Election Code's Sec. 61.003(a)(2), meaning "the period beginning when the polls
open for voting and ending when the polls close or the last voter has voted,
whichever is later."
      9.   There may be a reasonable measure of BBQing, heating, and/or
preparing of food in the EIPA so as to have electioneers and their associates
properly fed and comfortable. However, each electioneers will provide their own
garbage receptacles to properly dispose of their residual trash, napkins, etc.
      10.   Prior to electioneering representatives departing from the EIPA,
they shall pick up any debris, paper, wrappings, refreshment bottles, or other
refuse that may be evident.
      11.   Should there be a change of the polling site and/or an increase of
polling site(s), these policies shall be properly amended by the Board of
Commissioners, according to legislative protocol; but imposing identical
electioneering policies to the new polling site(s).
      12.   It is expected that all participants in the election process will
act and abide by these reasonable measures in good faith. Should there be a
perceived violation, the City of Alamo will simply inform the person of the
proper code of electioneering conduct. It is stated that if the violation
persists, then a verbal warning may be issued; then if the violation still
continues, then a written warning may be issued, as well.
      13.   Penalty: For anyone that blatantly and intentionally continues to
violate the terms of these electioneering policies beyond the escalating steps
just cited, such person(s) may then be subject to a fine not to exceed one-
hundred dollars ($100.00) per occurrence.
      14.   The electioneering policies shall be enforced in close coordination
with the Alamo Police Department by the City Secretary's Office and the City
Manager's office, or other staff as may be assigned by them.
      15.   It is declared and ordained that any and all candidates, their
representatives, and any proponent of propositions, shall be provided a copy of
these policies; either through being hand-delivered or through electronic
transmission (as confirmed through this process). Also, the provisions of these
electioneering regulations shall be posted in the City of Alamo's official
website at a reasonable tenure prior to the start of the voting period. The
electioneering policies shall also be posted in the protective screened
bulletin boards of the library (polling site), and the Alamo City Hall.
      16.   In regard to any tent, equipment, or other items that are brought
in by private parties for the shelter and/or comfort of electioneers, the City
of Alamo, Texas shall not be responsible for any loss of such items, nor shall
the City be responsible for their upkeep or temporary storage if left behind
after the close of the voting period ends.
      17.   It is perceived that not all electioneering issues can be
documented since there is a plethora of electioneering variables to factor-in.
Therefore, the City Manager's Office shall be delegated the authority to use
his/her wisdom and experience, as well as consult as often as necessary with
the City Attorney's Office, to resolve all matters or conduct that may
challenge the electioneering policies shown herein. (Ord. 21-04-21, 5-4-2021)
CHAPTER 6
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Bond Requirements
1-6-2: City Manager
1-6-3: City Inspector
1-6-4: Personnel Policy Guidelines
1-6-5: Substance Abuse Policies
1-6-1: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
The mayor and two (2) commissioners and all employees of the city who handle
money shall be bonded in accordance with the laws of the state 1 . (Ord. 625,
4-19-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 24.024.
1-6-2: CITY MANAGER:
The city manager is hereby appointed to serve as:
   A.   Certifying environment officer;
   B.   Labor standards officer; and
   C.   Equal employment officer for the Texas department of community
development waterline project. (Ord. 1985-07, 2-19-1985)
1-6-3: CITY INSPECTOR:
   A.   Office Created; Appointment: The office of city inspector is hereby
created, such city inspector to be appointed by the city manager, with the
advice and consent of the board of commissioners.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The city inspector shall have such powers and duties
as are set out and created for a city inspector in the southern standard
building code, as amended, the city plumbing and electrical codes, the city
zoning ordinance and master plan, and the mobile homes, travel trailer parks
and mobile home subdivision regulations, as well as any other powers and duties
that fall within the normal purview of such job under the police power of the
city and as may be, from time to time, set out by the future ordinances of the
city. (Ord. 682, 8-21-1979; amd. 1994 Code)
1-6-4: PERSONNEL POLICY GUIDELINES:
The document entitled “Personnel Policy Guidelines”, as amended, is
incorporated herein by reference for all purposes and is now hereby adopted.
(Ord. 1995-1-30, 10-17-1995; amd. Ord. 7-09-99, 7-9-1999; Ord. 56-08-22, 8-16-
2022; Ord. 72-10-22, 10-4-2022; Ord. 84-11-22, 11-1-2022; Ord. 48-09-23, 9-5-
2023; Ord. 70-12-2023, 12-5-2023; Ord. 81-2-24, 2-27-2024; Ord. 94-4-24, 4-16-
2024; Ord. 185-07-25, 7-1-2025)
1-6-5: SUBSTANCE ABUSE POLICIES:
   A.   Adoption Of Substance Abuse Policies And Procedures: The city
commission does hereby adopt comprehensive substance abuse policies to assure
so far as possible to the citizens of the city, public servants who are free of
the harmful effects of drugs. A copy of such policies and procedures is on file
in the office of the city manager.
   B.   Disciplinary Actions For Violation: Any city employee or elected or
appointed officer of the city who tests positive for unauthorized controlled
substances at any time or alcoholic beverages while engaged in city business
shall be subject to removal from such public service.
   C.   Controlled Substance Testing:
      1.   Prospective Employees: All prospective employees of the city shall
be tested for unauthorized controlled substances prior to employment and shall
be refused consideration for such employment or appointment if they test
positive for unauthorized substances.
      2.   Employees: All employees of the City shall be subject to testing for
controlled substances or alcohol when probable cause exists that the person has
used, possessed or is under the influence of alcohol, any drug or any
controlled substance; following an accident that results in bodily injury and/
or property damages; and randomly under the direction of the City Manager.
   D.   Drug And Alcohol Education Program: The City Manager shall provide an
ongoing educational program directed at preventing and eliminating drug and
alcohol abuse among City employees and their families.
   E.   Records Keeping: Records concerning this policy shall be kept by the
City consistent with applicable laws and regulations. (Ord. 8-4-98, 8-4-1998)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL FINANCES
SECTION:
1-7-1: Ad Valorem Property Tax
1-7-2: Banking; Signatures On Checks
1-7-3: Purchases And Contracts
1-7-1: AD VALOREM PROPERTY TAX:
   A.   Exemption From Tax:
      1.   There shall be an exemption from ad valorem property taxation by the
city in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) of the appraised value
of the residence homestead of an individual who is disabled or is age sixty
five (65) or older. (Ord. 1988-04, 3-15-1988; amd. Ord. 02-02-02, 2-19-2002)
      2.   The city of Alamo, Texas, adopts a tax limitation of ad valorem
property taxes for qualified homesteads of property owners who are either sixty
five (65) years of age or older or a disabled person.
The city of Alamo, Texas, will not be able to increase homestead ad valorem
property taxes to citizens who are disabled, or age sixty five (65) or older
unless significant improvements are made to the home other than normal repairs
or maintenance.
The city of Alamo, Texas, will provide for the extension of such tax
limitations to surviving spouses of elderly persons if such spouse is fifty
five (55) years of age or older at the time of death of the elderly persons.
(Ord. 04-08-04, 8-17-2004)
      3.   a. "Travel trailer" means a house trailer type vehicle or a camper
trailer, regardless of whether the vehicle is affixed to real property that:
            (1)   Is less than four hundred (400) square feet in area; and
            (2)   Is designed primarily for use as temporary living quarters in
connection with recreational camping, travel, or seasonal use and not as a
permanent dwelling.
         b.   The governing body of a taxing unit, other than a school
district, by official action of the body adopted in the manner required by law
for official action may exempt from taxation a travel trailer that a person
owns, regardless of whether the travel trailer is real or personal property if:
            (1)   On January 1 of the applicable tax year, the travel trailer
is registered in this state in compliance with chapter 502, Transportation
Code; and
            (2)   The travel trailer is not held or used for the production of
income.
The city commission finds that it is in favor of adoption of the exemption
provided as described above, and further, that such exemption shall apply to
taxes imposed in the year 2002, and in each successive tax year until repealed
by action of the city commission or as otherwise provided by law. (Ord. 02-02-
02, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 04-08-04, 8-17-2004)
   B.   Tax Notice: No demand or notice shall be necessary in order to render
any tax levied by the city due and payable or to enforce its collection, it
being hereby made the duty of all taxpayers to attend at the office of the city
tax collector and make payment of all taxes when due, in cash, as herein
provided.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Ad valorem taxes that remain delinquent on July 1 of the year in
which they become delinquent shall incur an additional penalty to defray costs
of collection, said penalty to be in the amount of fifteen percent (15%) of the
amount of taxes, penalty and interest due the city.
      2.   The tax collector of this jurisdiction is hereby directed to cause
to be mailed, during the month of May, notices to all delinquent taxpayers,
where addresses are available, of the additional penalty to be imposed as
hereinabove set forth. (Ord. 728, 5-18-1982; amd. 1994 Code)
1-7-2: BANKING; SIGNATURES ON CHECKS:
   A.   Signature Cards; Checks:
      1.   Signature cards for all bank accounts for the city shall have the
signatures of the city secretary, the mayor and all the commissioners of the
city. Each check, including payroll checks, to be issued by the city shall have
the signature of the city secretary, the mayor and one of the commissioners or
the signature of the city secretary and two (2) commissioners in the absence of
the mayor. (Ord. 625, 4-19-1977)
      2.   The city manager, from the effective date hereof, shall be empowered
to sign checks of the city in the absence of the city secretary, in addition to
the mayor and city commissioners, and his signature shall be placed upon the
signature card of the city's depository bank and honored for such purposes.
(Res. 671, 5-29-1971)
   B.   Reporting Of Expenditures: All expenditures shall be reported to the
board of commissioners on a monthly basis. (1994 Code)
1-7-3: PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS:
All city purchases and contracts shall be made in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 16-09-04, 9-21-2004)
CHAPTER 8
CITY RECORDS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Management Program Established
1-8-2: City Records Declared Public Records
1-8-3: Office of Records Management
1-8-4: Development of Records Retention and Disposition Schedules
1-8-5: Preservation of Permanent Records
1-8-6: Microfilming Program
1-8-1: MANAGEMENT PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a records management program for the City. (Ord. 3-
15-94D, 3-15-94, eff. 3-15-94)
1-8-2: CITY RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC RECORDS:
All papers, correspondence, memoranda, accounts, reports, maps, plans,
photographs, sound and video recordings, files, microfilm, magnetic or paper
tape, punch card or other documents, regardless of physical form or
characteristic, which have been or shall be created, received, filed or
recorded by any City office or department or its lawful successor, or officials
thereof in pursuance of all ordinances, or in the conduct, transaction or
performance of any business, duty or function of public business, whether or
not confidential or restricted in use, are hereby declared to be public records
of the City and shall be created, maintained, disposed of in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter or procedures authorized by this Chapter unless
provided for in other codes or chapters of this Code. Library materials
acquired solely for reference, exhibit or display and stocks of publications
shall not constitute records for purposes of this Chapter. (Ord. 3-15-94D, 3-
15-94, eff. 3-15-94)
1-8-3: OFFICE OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT:
   A.   Established; Functions: The City Secretary's office shall be the Office
of Records Management and it shall be responsible for administering records
management and shall be responsible for City-wide files management and the
direction and control of the City's records disposition program. The City
Secretary as Records Manager shall report to and be responsible to the City
Manager for his/her duties under this Chapter. The Records Manager shall be
responsible for providing efficient, economical and effective control over the
creation, distribution, organization, maintenance and use and disposition of
all City records through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures of the
management of records from their creation to their ultimate disposition. The
Records Manager shall be responsible for formulating policies and procedures
relating to the carrying out of the duties as aforesaid.
   B.   Designation by City Manager: The City Manager is hereby authorized to
name and appoint a specific person to be the Records Management Officer from
time to time at the discretion of the City Manager, and upon so naming and
appointing a specific person to be designated Records Management Officer for
the City, the City Manager will cause the designation of the Records Management
Officer to be entered on the minutes of the City Commission and thereafter to
notify the Director and Librarian of the Texas State Library of such
designation, within thirty (30) days after the date of designation as required
under section 203.025 of the Texas Local Government Code or as amended.
   C.   Responsibilities: The Records Management Officer shall be responsible
for carrying out all the requirements of chapter 203, "Management and
Preservation of Records", subchapter B, "All Other Local Government Offices",
section 203.021, et seq., of the Texas Local Government Code of the State of
Texas, which pertain to the responsibilities of the local Records Management
Officer as such requirements presently exist or may hereinafter be amended.
   D.   Compliance with State Law: All custodians of records in the City shall
comply with the provisions of section 203.022 of the Local Government Code of
the State of Texas relating to the duties and responsibilities of custodians of
governmental records. To that end, the City Manager is hereby authorized to
issue standard operating procedures to the various departments for the purposes
of carrying out the policies and procedures of the City for the efficient and
economic management of records and meeting the provisions of State statutes
relating thereto. The City Manager shall designate specific custodians of
records for each department of the City. (Ord. 3-15-94D, 3-15-94, eff. 3-15-94)
1-8-4: DEVELOPMENT OF RECORDS RETENTION AND DISPOSITION SCHEDULES:
   A.   Retention periods to be included in records schedules shall be
submitted by the Records Manager to the City Manager's office and the City
Attorney, who shall notify the Records Manager within ten (10) working days of
their approval or of any objection to a retention period. At the expiration of
the ten (10) day period, if no objection has been submitted, the records
schedule shall be final and shall have full force as sufficient authorization
for records destruction or other action. If an objection is made, the Records
Manager shall determine a retention period satisfactory to the City Manager and
to the City Attorney. Copies of records retention schedules shall be submitted
to the City Commission at least ten (10) days prior to the next regularly
scheduled City Commission meeting for the purposes of general review by the
City Commission. Should any Commissioner have any objection to any records
retention schedule, then such City Commissioner shall cause the City Manager to
place such item on the agenda for review prior to the adoption by the Records
Manager.
   B.   Records retention and disposition schedules adopted shall thenceforth
constitute full authority to the Records Manager or department head to destroy,
transfer, microphotograph or take other actions, and the City Commission hereby
directs that such action be taken by the Records Manager or under its
supervision. the Records Manager shall notify the State Librarian of intended
destruction, as required by law, but no further notice to the City Commission
or other City office shall be required.
   C.   Revision of retention periods shall be submitted for review to the City
Manager, City Attorney and to the City Commission in the same manner as the
original retention periods.
   D.   The delineation of the records as defined herein shall in no way amend
the right of the public to have access to public records as provided for under
State law nor shall the delineation of the definition of public records as
provided for herein or any other provisions relating to this Chapter enlarge or
otherwise make available to the public documents which are not disclosable
under the requirements under State law.
   E.   The Records Management Officer for the City shall prepare and file with
the Director and Librarian of the State of Texas a records control schedule as
promulgated hereunder establishing the records retention period as required
under section 203.042 of the Local Government Code of Texas. All custodians of
records in the City shall cooperate with the office of Records Management for
the purposes of ensuring that the provisions of this Chapter and section
203.041 of the Texas Local Government Code are adhered to. (Ord. 3-15-94D, 3-
15-94, eff. 3-15-94)
1-8-5: PRESERVATION OF PERMANENT RECORDS:
The Records Manager shall develop a procedure to insure the permanent
preservation of the historically valuable records of the City. The Records
Manager shall provide housing for records no longer required in the conduct of
current business by any office of the City and such records shall be promptly
transferred to the records center or to the storage facilities or archives of
the State Library or to be destroyed, whichever is applicable, at the State
Library or to be destroyed, whichever is applicable, at the time such action is
designated on an approved records schedule. (Ord. 3-15-94D, 3-15-94, eff. 3-15-
94)
1-8-6: MICROFILMING PROGRAM:
   A.   A centralized microfilm program may be implemented by the Records
Manager to serve all City offices and departments. No office or department with
the exception of the Police Department shall operate a separate microfilm
program without the express consent of the City Manager. Microfilm use for
archival or security purposes, as provided herein, must meet the technical
standards for quality, density or resolution and definition of American
National Standards Institute (formerly the United States of America Standards
Institute) as required by law. The public is hereby given identical access to
records on microfilm, if applicable, as to which they would be entitled under
law for records in any other medium.
   B.   If a microfilm program is implemented, the Records Management Officer
is hereby directed and authorized to comply with the provisions of chapter 204
of the Texas Local Government Code as it presently exists or as may hereinafter
be amended in relationship to microfilming of City records. The City Manager,
along with the Records Management Officer, is hereby authorized to promulgate
standard operating procedures for the purposes of establishing the microfilming
program in accordance with this Section and section 204 of the Texas Local
Government Code. A schedule of the specific classification of records which
will be microfilmed will be prepared by the Records Management Officer and City
Manager and presented to the City Commission for its review and approval. (Ord.
3-15-94D, 3-15-94, eff. 3-15-94)
CHAPTER 9
MUNICIPAL COURT 1
SECTION:
1-9-1: Statutes Adopted
1-9-2: Trial Rules
1-9-3: Appeals
1-9-4: Municipal Court Funds
1-9-5: Unpaid Fines And Court Collection
 
Notes
1 1. See article IV, section 6 of the city charter.
1-9-1: STATUTES ADOPTED:
So much of the Texas Government Code, section 29.001 et seq., as is applicable
to cities and towns incorporated under the commission form of government is
hereby adopted, and by virtue thereof and of the general laws of Texas, the
municipal court of the city shall be as provided in said laws and governed by
their provisions. (Ord. 194, 9-6-1955)
1-9-2: TRIAL RULES:
The rules with reference to trial by jury, summoning juries, summoning
witnesses and all other rules of procedure applicable to justice courts shall
prevail in municipal court. (Ord. 194, 9-6-1955)
1-9-3: APPEALS:
Appeals may be taken from the municipal court to the county court or county
court at law under the same rules as govern appeals from justice court. (Ord.
194, 9-6-1955)
1-9-4: MUNICIPAL COURT FUNDS:
   A.   Municipal Court Technology Fund:
      1.   There is hereby created a municipal court technology fund. The Alamo
Municipal Court clerk shall deposit the court costs collected under subsection
A2 of this section into such fund. Such fund shall only be used to pay for
those items otherwise authorized under city budget process and as set out under
article 102.0172 of the Code Of Criminal Procedures.
      2.   A defendant convicted of a misdemeanor offense in municipal court
shall pay a four dollar ($4.00) technology fee as an additional cost of court.
A person is considered to be convicted if:
         a.   A sentence is imposed;
         b.   The person receives community supervision including deferred
adjudication; or
         c.   The court defers final disposition of the case. (Ord. 2000-2-15,
2-15-2000; amd. Ord. 19-09-08, 9-9-2008)
   B.   Municipal Court Building Security Fund: A defendant convicted of a
misdemeanor offense in a municipal court shall pay a three dollar ($3.00)
security fee as a cost of court.
      1.   In this subsection B, a person is considered convicted if:
         a.   A sentence is imposed on the person;
         b.   The person receives community supervision, including deferred
adjudication; or
         c.   The court defers final disposition of the person's case.
      2.   The clerks of the municipal court shall collect the costs and pay
them to the municipal court clerk, as appropriate, who discharges the duties
commonly delegated to the clerks, as appropriate, for deposit in a fund to be
known as the municipal court building security fund, as appropriate. A fund
designated by this subsection may be used only to finance items when used for
the purpose of providing security services for the Alamo Municipal Court
building, as appropriate, including, but not limited to:
         a.   The purchase or repair of X-ray machines and conveying system;
         b.   Handled metal detectors;
         c.   Walk-through metal detectors;
         d.   Identification cards and systems;
         e.   Security cameras and surveillance equipment;
         f.   Bailiffs, or contract security personnel during times when they
are providing appropriate security services;
         g.   Signage;
         h.   Confiscated weapon inventory and tracking systems;
         i.   Locks, chains, alarms, or similar security devices;
         j.   The purchase or repair of bulletproof glass and/or doors;
         k.   Continuing education on security issues for bailiff and/or
warrant officer.
      3.   The municipal court building security fund shall be administered by
or under the direction of the governing body of the municipality. (Ord. 19-09-
08, 9-9-2008)
1-9-5: UNPAID FINES AND COURT COLLECTION:
   A.   This section shall be known as the CITY OF ALAMO MUNICIPAL COURT UNPAID
FINE AND COURT COLLECTION ORDINANCE.
   B.   1. The city of Alamo shall be authorized to enter into a contract with
a private attorney or a public or private vendor for the provision of
collection services for one or more of the following items:
         a.   Debts and accounts receivable such as unpaid fines, fees, court
costs, forfeited bonds, and restitution order paid by:
            (1)   A court serving the county or a court serving the
municipality, as applicable; or
            (2)   A hearing officer serving the municipality under chapter 682,
Transportation Code; and
         b.   Accounts in cases in which the accused has failed to appear:
            (1)   As promised under subchapter A, chapter 543, Transportation
Code, or other law;
            (2)   In compliance with a lawful written notice to appear issued
under article 14.06(b) or other law;
            (3)   In compliance with a lawful summons issued under article
15.03(b) or other law;
            (4)   In compliance with a lawful order of a court serving the
municipality; or
            (5)   As specified in a citation, summons, or other notice
authorized by section 682.002, Transportation Code, that charges the accused
with a parking or stopping offense.
      2.   The city of Alamo shall be authorized to enter into a contract with
a private attorney or private vendor under this section and is authorized to
add a collection fee in the amount of thirty percent (30%) on each item
described in subsection B1 of this section that is more than sixty (60) days
past due and has been referred to the attorney or vendor for collection. The
collection fee does not apply to a case that has been dismissed by a court of
competent jurisdiction or to any amount that has been satisfied through time
served credit or community service. The collection fee may be applied to any
balance remaining after a partial credit for time served or community service
if the balance is more than sixty (60) days past due. Unless the contract
provides otherwise, the court shall calculate the amount of any collection fee
due to the governmental entity or to the private attorney or public or private
vendor performing the collection services and shall receive all fees, including
the collection fee. With respect to cases described by subsection B1b of this
section, the amount to which the thirty percent (30%) collection fee applies
is:
         a.   The amount to be paid that is communicated to the accused as
acceptable to the court under its standard policy for resolution of the case,
if the accused voluntarily agrees to pay the amount; or
         b.   The amount ordered paid by the court after plea or trial.
      3.   A defendant is not liable for the collection of fees authorized
under subsection B2 of this section if the court of original jurisdiction has
determined the defendant is indigent, or has insufficient resources or income,
or is otherwise unable to pay all or part of the underlying fine or costs.
      4.   If the city of Alamo has entered into a contract under subsection B1
of this section and a person pays an amount that is less than the aggregate
total to be collected under subsections B1 and B2 of this section, the
allocation to the comptroller, the municipality, and the private attorney or
vendor shall be reduced proportionately.
      5.   An item subject to collection services under subsection B1 of this
section and to the additional collection fee authorized by subsection B2 of
this section is considered more than sixty (60) days past due under subsection
B2 of this section if it remains unpaid on the sixty first day after the
following appropriate date:
         a.   With respect to an item described by subsection B1a of this
section, the date on which the debt, fine, fee, forfeited bond, or court cost
must be paid in full as determined by the court or hearing officer; or
         b.   With respect to an item described by subsection B1b of this
section, the date by which the accused promised to appear or was notified,
summoned, or ordered to appear.
      6.   The city of Alamo may not use the additional thirty percent (30%)
collection fee authorized by subsection B2 of this section for any purpose
other than compensating the private attorney or private vendor who earns the
fee.
      7.   This section does not apply to the collection of commercial bail
bonds.
      8.   The city of Alamo may enter into a contract as described in this
section to collect a debt incurred as a result of the commission of a criminal
or civil offense committed before the effective date of this section. The
collection fee does not apply to a debt collected pursuant to a contract
entered into under this section.
      9.   A communication to the accused person regarding the amount of
payment that is acceptable to the court under the court's standard policy for
resolution of a case must include a notice of the person's right to enter a
plea or trial on any offense charged. (Ord. 13-05-08, 5-20-2008)
CHAPTER 10
ANNEXING AND DISANNEXING PROPERTY
SECTION:
1-10-1: State Statutes Adopted
1-10-1: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED:
The procedural provisions of the Texas Local Government Code, sections 42.001
and 43.001 et seq., are hereby adopted by the City for the purposes of annexing
and disannexing property into and from the City. (Ord. 695, 5-6-80)
CHAPTER 11
CITY SEAL
SECTION:
1-11-1: City Seal
1-11-1: CITY SEAL:
The City hereby adopts as its official Seal of the City of Alamo, a copy of
which is on file in the office of the City Secretary and made a part hereof for
all purposes. The City designates the Seal as a proprietary interest of the
City and establishes the same to be used for official purposes of the City. The
Seal may be used by individuals other than City officials and employees of the
City only by the expressed written permission of the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 05-16-95, 5-16-1995)
TITLE 2
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND COMMITTEES
CHAPTER 1
BOARD AND COMMISSION STANDARDS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose And Applicability
2-1-2: Appointment; Board Officers
2-1-3: Membership
2-1-4: Attendance Requirements
2-1-5: Budget Procedures
2-1-1: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY:
The ordinances creating and establishing various appointive advisory boards and
commissions of the City are hereby amended in order to establish uniform
standards as to terms of the members thereof, length of service, length and
duration of such terms, attendance requirements, appointment procedures, on the
following boards and commissions:
   Ad hoc
   Advisory Committee Board (Chapter 7 of this Title)
   Building Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   Festival, Arts, Recreation and Entertainment (FARE) Committee
   Keep Alamo Beautiful Committee
   Library Board (Chapter 5 of this Title)
   Planning and Zoning Commission (Chapter 2 of this Title)
   Recreation and Park Board (Chapter 3 of this Title)
   Traffic Safety Committee
(Ord. 3-15-94B, 3-15-1994, eff. 3-18-1994; amd. Ord. 11-07-95A, 11-7-1995; Ord.
72-1-24, 1-2-2024; Ord. 74-1-24, 1-2-2024; Ord. 76-1-24, 1-16-2024)
2-1-2: APPOINTMENT; BOARD OFFICERS:
   A.   Appointment: All members of said boards and commissions shall be
appointed by a majority of the City government officials consisting of the
Mayor and Commissioners in attendance at the time. Members shall be eligible to
serve for two (2) 3-year terms. A partial term is not considered as a term for
such purposes.
   B.   Board Officers: On January 30 or as soon thereafter as possible of each
year or within a reasonable time thereafter, the members of said boards and
commissions shall elect one of its members as chairperson and one as vice
chairperson, whose terms of office shall run until the following January 30. In
the absence or disqualification of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall
act in his stead. There shall be no limit on the number of terms a board or
commission member may serve as chairperson or vice chairperson. (Ord. 3-15-94B,
3-15-1994, eff. 3-18-1994)
2-1-3: MEMBERSHIP:
   A.   Terms Of Office:
      1.   Terms of current members, except as set forth in subsection A3 of
this Section, shall be for three (3) years beginning on January 1 and ending on
December 31, three (3) years thereafter.
      2.   In the event of resignation or termination of membership during such
three (3) year terms, or portion thereof, the City Commission shall appoint a
successor to serve for the unexpired term for which appointed.
      3.   The current members holding three (3) year terms shall finish out
their terms. The respective boards and commissions having other than three (3)
year terms shall, as soon hereafter as possible, meet and draw lots to
determine which current members shall serve for the remaining portion of two
(2) and three (3) year terms, respectively. Thereafter, the City Commission
shall, on January 1 of each year, or as soon thereafter as possible, appoint
new members to take the place of those members whose terms have expired.
   B.   Residency Requirement: All members shall be residents of the City,
unless the ordinance creating the board specifically provides otherwise, and
qualified electors at the time of appointment. Any member who is now serving on
any of such advisory boards or commissions who is not a resident of the City
shall nevertheless be entitled to continue as a member thereof for the
remaining term of his office. (Ord. 3-15-94B, 3-15-1994, eff. 3-18-1994)
2-1-4: ATTENDANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Members must attend at least fifty percent (50%) of all regular meetings during
each six (6) months of their tenure regardless of cause and regardless of
excuse. No member shall miss more than three (3) consecutive meetings. The six
(6) month period shall be from January 1 through June 30, and from July 1
through December 31 of each year. Failure to comply with attendance
requirements whether excused or not will be considered as resignation from the
board or commission. In the event of such termination, the chairperson of such
board or commission shall immediately notify the City Commission who shall then
take steps to fill such vacancy. (Ord. 3-15-94B, 3-15-1994, eff. 3-18-1994)
2-1-5: BUDGET PROCEDURES:
   A.   Submission Of Proposed Budget: Those boards or commissions which are by
ordinance responsible for the preparation of a budget for the department, or
part thereof, which they advise or control, shall submit their proposed budget
to the City Manager, as Budget Officer, in the manner instructed by him; and
such budget thereafter shall be treated the same as any other budget submitted
by any other department of the City.
   B.   Authority Restricted: The provisions of this Section shall not be
construed to give any authority concerning the preparation of a budget to any
board or commission not already expressly given such board or commission by
ordinance.
   C.   Recommendation To Budget Officer Or Department Head: Henceforth, no
board or commission shall have authority to take its budgetary recommendations
directly to the Board of Commissioners. All budgetary submissions shall go from
the board or commission having the authority to prepare a budget by ordinance
to the Budget Officer and the Budget Officer shall solely be responsible for
its submission to the City Commission. Those boards and commissions not having
the authority to prepare a budget by ordinance which, nevertheless, have by
custom or practice overseen the preparation of a budget, shall henceforth
submit such budgets to the department head of the department responsible for
implementing the activities overseen by the board or commission involved. (Ord.
3-15-94B, 3-15-1994, eff. 3-18-1994)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Established
2-2-2: Membership And Terms
2-2-3: Vacancies; Removals From Office; Compensation
2-2-4: Organization
2-2-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
A Planning and Zoning Commission for the City is hereby established which shall
be composed of seven (7) members. (Ord., 9-17-1991)
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS:
   A.   Appointment: The members shall be residents of the City, and each
individual member shall be appointed by the majority vote of the Board of
Commissioners of the City. (Ord., 9-17-1991)
   B.   Terms: The members shall serve terms of three (3) years. Upon the
completion of the appointed three (3) year term, the member(s) may be
reappointed by a majority vote of the Board of Commissioners of the City. (Ord.
04-02-16, 2-2-2016)
   C.   Staggered Terms:
      1.   The Planning and Zoning Commission to be appointed by the Board of
Commissioners as soon as practical after the effective date hereof shall be
composed of at least two (2) members of the existing Planning and Zoning
Commission, to be designated by a majority of the City Commission, who shall
hold an initial term of office for one year from such date of appointment. In
addition to such two (2) members, two (2) members shall be appointed for a two
(2) year term commencing on the date of appointment. The remaining three (3)
members shall be appointed for a full three (3) year term from the date of
appointment. The Board of Commissioners, at their discretion, shall provide in
the appointment of such members of the Planning and Zoning Commission for the
term of office as aforesaid.
      2.   The current Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold their offices
and conduct the business of the Planning and Zoning Commission until their
successors are appointed by the Board of Commissioners under the provisions of
subsection C1 of this section. (Ord., 9-17-1991)
2-2-3: VACANCIES; REMOVALS FROM OFFICE; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Vacancies: The filling of a vacancy for an unexpired term shall not
constitute serving of a full three (3) year term. All vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term in the same manner as provided for in the original
appointments. All expired terms shall be filled as provided for in the original
appointments in the same manner. (Ord., 9-17-1991)
   B.   Removals From Office:
      1.   Any member may be removed by a majority vote of the Board of
Commissioners of the City, without cause. (Ord. 27-12-17, 12-19-2017)
      2.   Any member of the Planning and Zoning Commission who shall be absent
from regular or special called meetings of the Planning and Zoning Commission
for more than fifty percent (50%) of such meetings on an annual basis from the
date of appointment shall be automatically removed from the Planning and Zoning
Commission without any further action necessitated by the Mayor and Board of
Commissioners.
   C.   Compensation: The members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
serve without compensation. (Ord., 9-17-1991)
2-2-4: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Chairman And Vice Chairman: The Planning and Zoning Commission shall
elect a Chairman and a Vice Chairman from its membership and shall have
assigned to it the staff and employees of the City as deemed necessary by the
Board of Commissioners of the City for the proper conduct and undertakings of
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   B.   Duties:
      1.   The planning and zoning commission shall perform the duties as
assigned a planning and zoning commission under chapter 211 of the local
government code of the state and other duties as assigned to it by the board of
commissioners of the city. (Ord., 9-17-1991)
      2.   The planning and zoning commission shall, in addition to the powers
and duties as conferred upon it under this chapter, serve as the building board
of adjustments and appeals for all southern standard building codes including
the building, plumbing, electrical, and gas codes 1  heretofore or hereinafter
adopted by the board of commissioners of the city. The planning and zoning
commission shall exercise the powers of the adjustments and appeals board as
set out under such codes as adopted by the board of commissioners. The planning
and zoning commission acting as the board of adjustments and appeals is hereby
authorized to promulgate rules and regulations for the conducting of its
business as the board of adjustments and appeals. (Ord. 8-3-93B, 8-3-1993)
   C.   Meetings: The planning and zoning commission shall meet at least
monthly on a regular basis and specially as required for the orderly conduct of
business of the planning and zoning commission at the call of the chairman or
vice chairman or a majority of the membership of the planning and zoning
commission. (Ord., 9-17-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 9 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
PARKS AND RECREATION BOARD
SECTION:
2-3-1: Board Created
2-3-2: Membership; Appointment; Terms; Vacancies
2-3-3: Organization
2-3-4: Powers and Duties
2-3-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created a board of seven (7) members to be known as the Parks
and Recreation Board of the City of Alamo, Texas. (Ord. 609A, 5-20-80; amd.
Ord. 14-02-22, 2-15-2022)
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; VACANCIES:
   A.   Appointments:
      1.   The members of the Parks and Recreation Board shall be appointed by
the Board of Commissioners from among the property owning residents of the City
of Alamo. Since it is expected that the members of the Parks and Recreation
Board will be in and around facilities where children of all ages will be
present, all candidates for the Parks and Recreation Board shall undergo a
complete background examination to assure maximum safety for all involved.
Should there be issues with the confirmed findings of such a background check,
the matter will then be provided to the City Manager's Office which will then
provide direction on how to proceed on the affected candidacy.
   B.   Terms: Membership in the Parks and Recreation Board shall be for a term
of two (2) years. There is no set limit on the number of times a member may be
re-appointed.
   C.   Vacancies: Vacancies shall be filled as promptly as possible by the
Board of Commissioners for the unexpired term of the vacating member.
   D.   Removals: Any member whose circumstances reflect that they are no
longer a property owning resident shall automatically terminate their
membership and create a vacancy. Also, any Parks and Recreation Board member
who may (need to) resign their membership may do so by written letter or
through an acceptable means of electronic messaging to the Parks and Recreation
Director who shall promptly alert the City Manager's Office. Also, the Board of
Commissioners reserves its right to terminate, with or without cause, any
members' appointment/membership as said Commission deems appropriate. (Ord.
609A, 5-20-80; amd. Ord. 14-02-22, 2-15-2022)
2-3-3: ORGANIZATION:
Immediately following their appointments, the members of the Board shall meet
and elect a president or presiding officer and such other officers as they may
deem advisable, each of whom shall hold office for one year or until a
successor is selected and qualified and shall perform the duties incumbent upon
his office. The Recreation and Park Bard shall prescribe the duties of all
officers elected by it and fill all vacancies occurring in such offices from
among its members. (Ord. 609, 7-20-76)
2-3-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The Board shall have authority to review and adopt Bylaws to magnify
its primary intent of assisting to improve the city's park system, and
providing input to enhance and/or establish friendly and accessible
recreational programs and activities. It is declared that the Boards' Bylaws,
and any amendments thereto, must be approved by the Board of Commissioners in
order for said Bylaws to be officially enabled.
   B.   The Board shall provide helpful recommendations to the Parks and
Recreation Director regarding the maintenance and equipment of parks,
playgrounds, athletic fields, swimming pools and recreation centers, and other
recreationally used buildings/structures. The Board shall also provide needful
input and insight to help the City's Parks and Recreation Director prepare a
comprehensive program of recreational activities and services.
   C.   The Board members shall seek to promote close cooperation between the
City and all private citizens, institutions, and all other bona fide agencies
interested in or conducting recreational activities within the City's Parks
system.
   D.   The Board shall have the duty to assist the Parks and Recreation
Director and/or other appropriate city staff in the process of solicitation and
seeking for Federal and State funds for park improvement projects.
   E.   The Parks and Recreation Board, in unified coordination with the Parks
and Recreation Director, will formulate, prepare, and submit an annual Parks
Improvement & Implementation Plan to the Board of Commissioners; said plan to
include park improvement goals and priorities, strategies to maximize
recreational activities, status of any available park funds solicited for or to
possibly seek (dependent on matching thresholds), and clear recommendations on
how to achieve said goals.
   F.   The Parks and Recreation Board shall not individually or collectively
incur any expenditure(s) on behalf of the City of Alamo, nor bind or obligate
the City for the payment of any financial and/or performance-based obligation
not officially authorized by the Board of Commissioners.
   G.   It is declared that such Parks and Recreation Board may be assigned
such other duties as may, from time to time, be needfully prescribed by the
Board of Commissioners of the City of Alamo.
   H.   The Parks and Recreation Board will also have advisory duties on how to
expend the Park Fee funds in the course of its analysis of improving a parks7
amenities. The Board's recommendation may be made to the Parks and Recreation
Director as they incidentally meet and/or within its annual Parks Improvement &
Implementation Plan.
   I.   The Park and Recreation Board shall have the ability to create
subcommittees from amongst its Board in order to more surgically examine
certain park improvement/recreational programming issues, or other such park
matters that may be time-consuming but important to consider. (Ord. 609, 6-20-
76; amd. Ord. 14-02-22, 2-15-2022)
CHAPTER 4
KEEP ALAMO BEAUTIFUL COMMITTEE (KABC)
SECTION:
2-4-1: Keep Alamo Beautiful Committee Created; Membership; Appointment, Tenure,
And Adoption Of Bylaws/Staff Support
2-4-2: Purposes; Duties
2-4-1: KEEP ALAMO BEAUTIFUL COMMITTEE CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT, TENURE,
AND ADOPTION OF BYLAWS/STAFF SUPPORT:
   A.   The City of Alamo, Texas hereby creates the Keep Alamo Beautiful
Committee (KABC) for its community.
   B.   Membership: The Keep Alamo Beautiful Committee (KABC) shall be
comprised of five (5) persons who will be residents of the City of Alamo; and
who shall be a qualified elector at the time of appointment.
   C.   Appointment: The KABC members shall be appointed at large by the Board
of Commissioners upon a majority vote for such appointment. The Board of
Commissioners shall always have the inherent right to replace any KABC member
at any time, without cause.
   D.   Tenure: Pursuant to Section
2-1-3  of the Code of Ordinances, each appointed KABC member shall be appointed
for (3) year terms. The first term, if not ending before the end of the
calendar year, shall serve until December 31 of the following year even if the
time of service is over three (3) full years from the first time of being
appointed. Thereafter, each term shall be for three (3) years and end on
December 31 to then be considered (re)appointment or replacement. Should a
member resign, be replaced, or not be able to serve any longer, any appointed
replacement shall serve the unexpired term of the vacant KABC members' seat.
There is no limit on the number of terms a KABC member may serve, but such
shall be determined by the Board of Commissioners generally based on a member's
effectiveness, consistent attendance, respectful conduct, and a members' strong
passion of their KABC stewardship.
   E.   With Staff support, the KABC shall review and adopt Bylaws and any
subsequent amendments thereto, in order to provide structure in orderly
conducting their meetings; such bylaws to be substantially compliant to Title 2
'Boards, Commissions and Committees', Chapter 1 'Board and Commission
Standards'. Based on the occasional need to mobilize heavy equipment, city
trucks, and the Streets' crew's help, the Board of Commissioners hereby
delegates the Public Works Director or his/her designated representative, to be
the Staff liaison with the KABC; with the City Manager or Assistant City
Manager expected to occasionally attend KABC meetings, events, and/or
activities to provide any needful insight on any budget related expenditures
being discussed/discerned. (Ord. 72-1-24, 1-2-2024)
2-4-2: PURPOSES; DUTIES:
   A.   The Keep Alamo Beautiful Committee (KABC) is hereby established for the
following purposes and duties:
      1.   Discuss the issues of neighborhood aesthetics and what programs and/
or resources may be needed to improve such areas of the city, e.g., request to
owners of self-help/self-maintenance efforts, neighborhood efforts to help the
disabled, elderly, single (mom) households, lack of (mowing) equipment, etc.
      2.   Consider, discuss, and establish educational programming to alert
the citizens of Alamo of the inherent need to clean-up around their properties
and neighborhoods, e.g., maximizing a healthy environment and lifestyle,
improving area property values, promoting a sense of un-heralded service toward
their needful neighbors, etc.
      3.   Assess and request activation of code enforcement measures to result
not just in code compliance but to beautify non-maintained properties or
structures; and seek to develop program(s) to achieve the same beautification
results.
      4.   Develop a consistent program to maintain the streets' ROWs free from
litter, e.g., Adopt-a-Highway program, etc.
      5.   Monitor performance levels of clean-up projects and activities
(number of participants, number of trash bags disposed-of, etc.) to keep an
accurate record of likely progressively upward results.
      6.   Discuss and, if financially feasible, develop environmentally
friendly programming to maximize aesthetics, e.g., tree plantings, etc.
      7.   Discuss the possibility of sub-committees to more deeply research
and examine a concept that may be worthwhile but would be pending the sub-
committee's pro's/con's report.
      8.   Any private donations shall strictly follow the financial protocols
of the City of Alamo to maximize transparency and be preparatory for auditing
purposes.
      9.   Abide unto any other duties that the Board of Commissioners may
delegate and request of the KABC that is related to their general stewardship.
      10.   The KABC's Chairperson, Vice-chairperson, or another designated
LABC representative shall make an annual report, during the first quarter of
the calendar year, to the Board of Commissioners during a regular City
Commission meeting of the previous years' activities, accomplishments, goals/
measures reached, costs incurred or financial resources needed, etc.; which may
include:
         a.   The type of recommendations made;
         b.   The locations of such recommended improvements/adjustments;
         c.   Any resulting improvements made or those that may be in process;
and
         d.   If possible, the costs involved of such improvements.
         e.   Other matters that are relevant to improving the overall
aesthetics and related programming of the City of Alamo. (Ord. 72-1-24, 1-2-
2024)
CHAPTER 5
LIBRARY BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Board Created; Membership; Appointment
2-5-2: Terms; Vacancies; Compensation
2-5-3: Organization
2-5-4: Powers and Duties
2-5-1: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
There is hereby created a board designated as the Alamo Public Library Board 1
. Such Board shall consist of seven (7) members, who shall be appointed by the
Board of Commissioners of the City. The City Manager and the library
administrator, in their official capacities, shall be nonvoting ex officio
members of said Library Board and may attend the meetings of said Library Board
to offer counsel and advice. At least four (4) members of such Board shall be
citizens of the City. (Ord. 1-18-94, 1-18-94)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 7, Chapter 2 of this Code for public library provisions.
2-5-2: TERMS; VACANCIES; COMPENSATION:
All seven (7) members of the Alamo Public Library Board shall serve a term of
three (3) years or until their successors have been appointed and have
qualified; provided, however, that said terms will be staggered so that four
(4) members of the initial Board shall be appointed for terms of three (3)
years each and three (3) members for terms of two (2) years each, and all
successive appointments thereafter shall be for terms of three (3) years each.
Any member of the Board who shall miss three (3) consecutive meetings without
good cause shall be deemed to have resigned from the Board, and the Board of
Commissioners shall appoint another member to fill such vacancy. The members of
said Board shall serve without compensation, except for such reimbursement of
expenses as may be authorized by the Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 734, 6-15-
82)
2-5-3: ORGANIZATION:
Immediately upon their appointment, the members of the Alamo Public Library
Board shall meet and elect a president, vice president and secretary/treasurer
and such other officers as they may deem advisable, each of whom shall serve
for one year, or until a successor is elected and qualified, and shall perform
the usual duties incumbent upon such office. The Alamo Public Library Board
shall prescribe the duties of all officers elected by it and fill all vacancies
occurring in such offices. At the first meeting of the Alamo Public Library
Board, the majority of the members present shall constitute a quorum, and the
Library Board shall pass rules and regulations to govern the conduct of its
meetings and the transaction of its business. (Ord. 734, 6-15-82)
2-5-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   Supervision: The Alamo Public Library Board shall be and is hereby
authorized, empowered and directed to advise the City Manager, the library
administrator and the City Commission concerning the management,
administration, maintenance and operation of the Alamo Public Library as the
Library Board shall deem best and proper, having in mind the best interest of
the City, the Alamo Public Library, the administrative staff thereof, volunteer
helpers and the public in general. Provided, however, that all employees
working for the Alamo Public Library, other than volunteer workers, shall be
employees of the City and shall be employed, appointed and terminated as other
City employees.
   B.   Funds and Obligations: The Alamo Public Library Board shall not make or
incur any expenditures not authorized by the Board of Commissioners of the City
and shall have no power to bind or obligate the City for the payment of any
money or performance of any obligation not previously authorized by the Board
of Commissioners of the City. It is further provided that all funds of the
Alamo Public Library shall be handled by the City as is the case with other
City departments with separate accounts set up as needed and as authorized by
the Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 1-18-94, 1-18-94)
   C.   Annual Budget: The Alamo Public Library Board is further authorized,
empowered and directed to assist the library administrator in the preparation
of the annual budget for the Alamo Public Library by making recommendations for
items and amounts to be included in the budget which, in the opinion of the
Board, are necessary in connection with the maintenance and future development
of the Alamo Public Library.
   D.   Donations: It shall be a primary function of the Alamo Public Library
Board, with the assistance of the library administrator, to solicit donations
and grants of funds, books and other materials from the public-at-large as well
as other governmental or quasi-governmental entities and to assist in the
establishment and perpetuation of a volunteer workers' program to supplement
the regular employed staff of the Alamo Public Library.
   E.   Annual Reports: The Alamo Public Library Board shall additionally
render to the Board of Commissioners of the City annual reports of its
operations together with its recommendations for improvement and extensions.
   F.   Bylaws: All bylaws, rules and regulations adopted by the Library Board
for the government, administration, maintenance and operation of the Alamo
Public Library shall be subject to the approval or disapproval of the Board of
Commissioners of the City and shall be promptly submitted to said Board of
Commissioners for approval or disapproval, in whole or in part, but shall be
effective from and after the time of the adoption thereof by the Library Board.
Said approval or disapproval of the Board of Commissioners as to any part
thereof shall operate to suspend the effectiveness of such rejected or
disapproved portion only. (Ord. 734, 6-15-82)
CHAPTER 6
TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-6-1: Traffic Safety Committee Created; Membership; Appointment, Tenure, And
Adoption Of Bylaws/Staff Support
2-6-2: Duties
2-6-1: TRAFFIC SAFETY COMMITTEE CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT, TENURE, AND
ADOPTION OF BYLAWS/STAFF SUPPORT:
   A.   The City of Alamo, Texas hereby creates the Traffic Safety Committee
(TSC) for its community.
   B.   Membership: The Traffic Safety Committee (TSC) shall be comprised of
five (5) persons who will be residents of the City of Alamo; and who shall be
qualified electors at the time of appointment.
   C.   Appointment: The TSC members shall be appointed at large by the Board
of Commissioners upon a majority vote for such appointment. The Board of
Commissioners shall always have the inherent right to replace any member at any
time, without cause.
   D.   Tenure: Pursuant to Section
2-1-3  of the Code of Ordinances, each appointed TSC member shall serve for a
three (3) year term. The first term, if not ending before the end of the
calendar year, shall serve until December 31 of the following year even if the
time of service is over three (3) full years from the first time of being
appointed. Thereafter, each term shall be for three (3) years and end on
December 31 to then be considered for (re)appointment or replacement. All
members shall serve for the same tenure, and shall not have staggered terms.
Should a member resign, be replaced, or not be able to serve any longer, any
appointed replacement shall serve the un-expired term of the vacant TSC
members' seat. There is no limit on the number of terms a TSC member may serve.
   E.   With Staff support, the TSC shall review and adopt Bylaws and any
subsequent amendments thereto, in order to provide structure in orderly
conducting their meetings. It is noted that as much as possible, said bylaws
will be substantially compliant to Title 2 'Boards, Commissions and
Committees', Chapter 1 'Board and Commission Standards'. The Police Chief or
his/her designated representative, shall be the Staff liaison with the TSC.
(Ord. 74-1-24, 1-2-2024)
2-6-2: DUTIES:
   A.   The Traffic Safety Committee (TSC) will discuss, assess, and recommend
to the City of Alamo on matters pertaining to or relevant to the following:
      1.   Traffic control signage including, but not limited to, stop signs,
speed limit signs, caution-related signage, etc.
      2.   Assessing whether speed limits on certain streets should be
increased or decreased.
      3.   New or upgrade street lighting on streets, roads, or avenues that
could be safer for traffic and pedestrians during evening hours.
      4.   Painted markings on streets to disclose a 'Stop Ahead', a 'School
Zone', a speed limit, or circumstances of a similar nature to alert approaching
incoming traffic.
      5.   Pedestrian traffic improvements that will reduce, minimize, or
eliminate conflict points with motorist traffic patterns.
      6.   Removing and/or trimming any landscaping or fencing that may impede
visibility at street corners; or such landscaping that may have grown to impede
visibility of stop signs, etc.
      7.   The installation of speed humps on certain streets that historically
have been a traffic concern especially in areas where school children may be
prevalent.
      8.   The TSC's Chairperson, Vice-chairperson, or another designated TSC
representative shall make an annual report, during the first quarter of the
calendar year, to the Board of Commissioners during a regular City Commission
meeting of the previous years' activities, accomplishments, goals/measures
reached, costs incurred, etc.; which may include:
         a.   The type of recommendations made;
         b.   The locations of such recommended improvements/adjustments;
         c.   Any resulting improvements made or those that may be in process;
and
         d.   If possible, the costs involved of such improvements.
      9.   Other matters that may occasionally be assigned to the TSC by the
Board of Commissioners which are relevant to improving traffic and pedestrian
safety. (Ord. 74-1-24, 1-2-2024)
CHAPTER 7
FESTIVAL, ARTS, RECREATION, AND ENTERTAINMENT (FARE) COMMITTEE (MFB)
SECTION:
2-7-1: Festival, Arts, Recreation And Entertainment (FARE) Committee;
Membership; Appointment, Tenure, And Adoption Of Bylaws/Staff Support
2-7-2: Purposes; Duties
2-7-1: FESTIVAL, ARTS, RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT (FARE) COMMITTEE;
MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT, TENURE, AND ADOPTION OF BYLAWS/STAFF SUPPORT:
   A.   The City of Alamo, Texas hereby creates the Festival, Arts, Recreation
and Entertainment (FARE) Committee for the Alamo community.
   B.   Membership: The FARE Committee shall be comprised of five (5) persons
who will be residents of the City of Alamo; and who shall be a qualified
elector at the time of appointment.
   C.   Appointment: The FARE Committee members shall be appointed at large by
the Board of Commissioners upon a majority vote for such appointment. The Board
of Commissioners shall always have the inherent right to replace any FARE
Committee member at any time, without cause.
   D.   Tenure: Pursuant to Section
2-1-3  of the Code of Ordinances, each appointed FARE Committee member shall be
appointed for (3) year terms. The first term, if not ending before the end of
the calendar year, shall serve until December 31 of the following year even if
the time of service is over three (3) full years from the first time of being
appointed. Thereafter, each term shall be for three (3) years and end on
December 31 to then be considered (re)appointment or replacement. Should a
member resign, be replaced, or not be able to serve any longer, any appointed
replacement shall serve the un-expired term of the vacant FARE Committee
members' seat. There is no limit on the number of terms a FARE member may
serve; but such shall be determined by the Board of Commissioners generally
based on a member's effectiveness, consistent attendance, respectful conduct,
and a members' strong passion of their stewardship.
   E.   With Staff support, the FARE Committee shall review and adopt Bylaws
and any subsequent amendments thereto, in order to provide structure in orderly
conducting their meetings; such bylaws to be substantially compliant to Title 2
'Boards, Commissions and Committees', Chapter 1 'Board and Commission
Standards'. Based on the consistent need to coordinate entertainment events,
discuss the arts and cultural activities in various venues, and publicize such
through available (social media) platforms, inclusive the city's main website,
the Board of Commissioners hereby delegates the Public Information Department
or his/her designated representative, to be the Staff liaison with the FARE
Committee; with the City Manager or Assistant City Manager expected to
occasionally attend FARE meetings, events, and/or activities to provide any
needful insight on any budget related expenditures being discussed/discerned.
(Ord. 76-1-24, 1-16-2024)
2-7-2: PURPOSES; DUTIES:
The Festival, Arts, Recreation and Entertainment (FARE) Committee is hereby
established for the following purposes and duties:
   A.   Fully assess entertaining cultural and recreational events, activities
focusing on the arts, music festivals, or other celebrations similar in overall
intent that will appeal to the various facets of Alamo's diversified
population.
   B.   Discuss and coordinate such events described in Section
2-7-2  (A)(1) above, that shall then be disclosed in tentative format for the
calendar year; said calendar of proposed events to be presented to the City
Manager's office for his/her assessment. After Managements' vetting, the
calendar of events shall be presented to the Board of Commissioners for their
information; however, if there is a perceived need in allocating budget(s) and/
or requiring street closure(s), then the Board of Commissioners will be
approached for such approval(s) at the proper time prior to the event or
activity.
   C.   In FARE's assessment of their stewardship, consideration should include
an event's need for sufficient off-street parking, police security, Fire
Department presence, EMS availability, trash receptacle placement (including
disposal throughout the event), lighting, restrained sound levels and
controlling overall anticipated noise, and post event forums that may have
various department heads attending to further discuss and refine the successes
and weaknesses of how the even transpired.
   D.   Discuss the possibility of sub-committees to more deeply research and
examine an event or activity that may be worthwhile but would be pending the
sub-committee's pro's/con's report.
   E.   Any private donations to participate in an event or activity, shall
strictly follow the financial protocols of the City of Alamo to maximize
transparency and be preparatory for auditing purposes.
   F.   Abide unto any other duties that the Board of Commissioners may
delegate and request of the FARE Committee that is related to their general
stewardship.
   G.   The FARE Committee's Chairperson, Vice-chairperson, or another
designated FARE representative shall present, at a minimum, an annual report to
the Board of Commissioners during the first quarter of the following calendar
year; such report to express FARE's events, activities, accomplishments, goals/
measures reached, costs incurred or financial resources needed, etc. (Ord. 76-
1-24, 1-16-2024)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
SALES AND USE TAX
SECTION:
3-1-1: Tax Imposed
3-1-1: TAX IMPOSED:
The City, by majority vote of its governing body, hereby votes to retain the
taxes authorized by the Local Sales and Use Tax Act 1  on the receipts from the
sale, production, distribution, lease or rental of and the use, storage or
other consumption of gas and electricity for residential use, as authorized by
section 6 of House Bill No. 1, Acts 1978, 65 Legislature, Second Called
Session. (Ord. 667, 4-26-79)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Tax Code §321.001 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Licensing Requirements
3-2-2: Licenses And Fees
3-2-3: Location Near Schools, Churches And Hospitals
3-2-4: Telephone Requirements
3-2-5: Sale, Possession And Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages During Extended
Hours
3-2-6: Sale, Possession And Consumption Of Alcoholic Beverages During Extended
Hours For Restaurants
3-2-1: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Inspection Of Premises: It is hereby required that there be performed
an inspection and approval, by the City inspector under the Unsafe Buildings
Code, and the Fire Marshal under the Life Safety Code or Fire Prevention Code,
of the place for which the permit is being sought, prior to the issuance of a
license or within a one month period after the license is issued.
   B.   Secretary To Attest On State License Application: Prior to the issuance
of a wine and beer license, the City Secretary, or another administrative staff
member of near equivalent authority shall be designated by the city manager,
must attest, in the application for wine and beer permit issued by the Texas
Alcoholic Beverage Commission (TABC), that the location for which the license
being requested is within a proper zoning district and has received proper
zoning permits. (1994 Code; amd. Ord. 150-12-24, 12-3-2024)
3-2-2: LICENSES AND FEES:
   A.   Relation To State Fees: In accordance with the provisions of the Texas
Alcoholic Beverage Code, section 1.01 et seq., the City shall, from and after
the effective date hereof, charge to all holders of permits under the Texas
Alcoholic Beverage Code who do business within the City limits a fee of an
amount equal to one- half (1/2) the fee charged by the State for such permits.
   B.   Payment Of Fees: Such fees shall be payable on an annual basis to the
City Secretary or another administrative staff member of near equivalent
authority shall be designated by the city manager, at City Hall, thirty (30)
calendar days prior to expiration of the license. (Ord. 01-02-19, 2-19-2019;
amd. Ord. 150-12-24, 12-3-2024)
3-2-3: LOCATION NEAR SCHOOLS, CHURCHES AND HOSPITALS:
   The provisions of section 109.33 of Vernon's Annotated Texas Alcoholic
Beverage Code are hereby adopted and, from and after the effective date hereof,
it shall be prohibited for any dealer whose place of business is within three
hundred feet (300') of a church, public school, City owned building or park of
the City or public hospital, to sell alcoholic beverages for on premises
consumption from such place of business, except a permit will be allowed if
less than fifty percent (50%) of the gross receipts is from the sale or service
of alcoholic beverages of a business that is within the three hundred feet
(300') of City owned buildings, property or parks. (Ord. 2-2-99-02, 2-2-1999)
3-2-4: TELEPHONE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Required For On Premises Business: Unless inclement weather dictates
otherwise, it shall be unlawful for any person owning a business establishment
engaged in selling beer, wine or any type of alcoholic beverage for on premises
consumption within the City limits to fail to have a cellular telephone, in
working order, located on the premises of such business establishment.
   B.   Violation: Any person or corporation engaging in the sale of beer, wine
or any type of alcoholic beverage for on-premises consumption within the City
limits without having a cellular telephone in working order on the premises of
such business establishment shall be guilty of a violation under this section.
However, the City of Alamo may forbear prosecution should a bona fide
circumstance occur, e.g., inclement weather, massive technical blackout, etc.,
that temporarily results in no phone service beyond the control of the person
or corporation engaging in such sales. (Ord. 527, 3-19-1968)
   C.   Penalties: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall have their on premises alcoholic beverage retailer's license
suspended until such time as the provisions of this section are complied with
and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 527, 3-19-1968; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 150-12-24, 12-3-2024)
3-2-5: SALE, POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DURING EXTENDED
HOURS:
   A.   It shall be lawful for the holder of a mixed beverage permit within the
corporate limits of the City to acquire a mixed beverage late hours permit, and
under such mixed beverage late hours permit, sell or offer for sale any
alcoholic beverages during the extended hours allowed by the State Alcoholic
Beverage Code on the premises of the mixed beverage permit holder.
   B.   Any violation of this section is punishable by a fine of not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation. The penalty to be provided for in
this subsection shall not be construed as exclusive, and the City hereby
provides that any other remedy available to it in the enforcement of this
section, in law or in equity, is not intended to be, is not to be, and is not
foreclosed by the provision of such penalty. (Ord. 3-21-03, 3-21-2000)
3-2-6: SALE, POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES DURING EXTENDED
HOURS FOR RESTAURANTS:
   A.   It shall be lawful for a business that holds a permit as a restaurant
and that processes, prepares, and serves food on the premises and is a holder
of a beer or wine retailer's permit within the City to sell or offer to sell
and deliver beer or wine during extended hours as provided in Texas Alcoholic
Beverage Code section 105.04 for consumption on the premises of the permittee.
   B.   Any violation of this section is punishable by a fine not to exceed
five hundred dollars ($500.00) per violation. The penalty to be provided for in
this subsection shall not be construed as exclusive, and the City hereby
provides that any other remedy available to it in the enforcement of this
section, in law or in equity, is not intended to be, is not to be, and is not
foreclosed by the provision of such penalty. (Ord. 4-04-00, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 3
UTILITIES
SECTION:
3-3-1: Cable TV Services
3-3-2: Natural Gas
3-3-3: Electric Utilities
3-3-4: Telephone Service
3-3-1: CABLE TV SERVICES:
   A.   Franchise Required: From and after the effective date hereof, it shall
be unlawful for any person to operate a community antenna television system
within the City limits without such person having first obtained a valid
franchise from the City. Included in the definition of community antenna
television system, but not limited thereto, is the use of coaxial cable,
microwave relay, leased wire and any other method by which television signals
may be brought to the home of the subscriber for a fee.
   B.   Violation and Penalty: Every person violating any of the provisions of
this Section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day of continuing violation shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 366, 12-7-65; 1994 Code)
3-3-2: NATURAL GAS:
   A.   Report to be Filed: All persons using and maintaining any gas pipes,
gas pipe lines, appurtenances and fixtures in any of the streets, highways,
alleys, parks and other public places within the corporate limits of the City
shall, within thirty (30) days after September 30 and March 31 of each year,
file with the City Secretary a sworn report, showing the gross receipts derived
from the sale by such natural gas or artificial gas utility sold for light,
heat, power or other purposes by consumers of such natural gas or artificial
gas located and using such natural gas or artificial gas within the corporate
limits of the City for the six (6) months preceding each of said dates,
excluding therefrom such gross receipts paid to said utility by the City or
other governmental agencies.
   B.   Rental Fee Imposed: Upon November 1, and May 1 of each year thereafter,
every person using the streets, highways, alleys, parks or other public places
within the City with gas pipes, gas pipe lines, appurtenances and fixtures
shall pay to the City a rental of two percent (2%) of the gross receipts
received by such person from its sale of natural gas or artificial gas for
light, heat, power and other purposes derived from consumers of such natural
gas or artificial gas located within and used within the corporate limits of
the City for six (6) months preceding September 30 and March 31 of each year,
excluding from such gross receipts all amounts paid to such person by the City
or other governmental agencies, which sum shall be paid to the tax collector of
the City who shall, thereupon, deliver to the person paying the same a receipt
for the amount so paid as a rental.
   C.   Proration: If the first payment required to be made hereunder shall be
for a period of not less than six (6) months preceding September 30, then the
time actually elapsing from the effective date hereof to September 30 shall be
prorated for the actual time on the basis herein provided.
   D.   Credit for Other Taxes Paid to City: Any special taxes, rentals,
contributions or charges accruing before the effective date hereof under the
terms of any pre-existing ordinance, contract or franchise against any such
person, when paid to the City shall be credited on the amount owed by such
person as a charge or rental imposed for the use of the streets, alleys and
other public places and ways within the City, and the tax collector of the City
is hereby authorized to give credit to such persons when they pay the street
rental charges in the manner described herein for all sums paid as special
taxes, rentals, contributions, charges or otherwise under the terms of any pre-
existing order, contract or franchise. (Ord. 120, 7-18-41)
   E.   Violation and Penalties: Any person and the local manager or agent of
any corporation, association or organization, wilfully failing and refusing,
after thirty (30) days' written notice from the City Secretary, to make the
report hereinabove required and to pay the amount of the rentals herein fixed
shall, upon conviction in the Municipal Court, be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day's failure or refusal shall be deemed a
separate offense. (Ord. 120, 7-18-41; 1994 Code)
3-3-3: ELECTRIC UTILITIES:
   A.   Report to be Filed: All persons operating and maintaining any electric
distribution or electric transmission line poles in any of the streets,
highways, alleys, parks or public places within the City shall, annually,
during January in each and every year, file with the City Secretary a report
stating the number of said electric distribution and transmission line poles
operated and maintained by said person in any of the streets, highways, alleys,
parks or public places within the City as of the first day of such calendar
year.
   B.   Privilege Fee: Each year, every such person operating or maintaining
electric distribution or transmission poles in any of the streets, highways,
alleys, parks or public places of the City shall pay to the City for said
privilege for that calendar year a sum equal to one dollar ($1.00) per pole for
each and every electric distribution and electric transmission line pole
operated and maintained in any of the streets, highways, alleys, parks or
public places within the City as of January 1 of that year. This privilege fee
shall be paid in installments of not less than one-half (1/2) on or before
April 1 and the balance on or before October 1. Payment shall be on all such
poles now erected as well as those hereafter erected.
   C.   Interpretation: Nothing in this Section shall be construed or
understood as granting any privilege or authority for any other term than that
already vested in persons now using and occupying the streets, alleys and
public places of the City.
   D.   Relation to Franchises, Fees and Taxes: The charges fixed by this
Section shall be exclusive of and additional to all ad valorem and franchise
taxes, and nothing herein is intended to or shall relieve any such person of
any condition, restriction or requirement of its franchise authorizing the
placing of such poles in the streets, highways, alleys or public places of the
City or to waive or relinquish any right of the City with reference to the
installation, operation, location and replacement of said poles which the City
may have under its police powers. (Ord. 111, 12-15-39)
   E.   Violation and Penalties: Any person, and the local manager or agent of
any corporation, wilfully failing and refusing, or failing and refusing, after
twenty (20) days' written notice from the City Secretary, to report and pay on
any such electric distribution and electric transmission line poles shall, upon
conviction in the Municipal Court of the City, be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and every day's failure or refusal as mentioned in this
subsection shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 111, 12-15-39; 1994 Code)
3-3-4: TELEPHONE SERVICE:
   A.   Report to be Filed: All persons using and maintaining any telephone
poles, structures, wires, conduits, towers, cables, crossarms, appurtenances
and fixtures in any of the streets, highways, alleys, parks and other public
places within the corporate limits of the City shall, within thirty (30) days
after September 30 and March 31 of each year, file with the City Secretary a
sworn report showing the gross receipts derived from the sale of such telephone
service to consumers located and using such service within the corporate limits
of the City for the six (6) months preceding each of said dates, excluding
therefrom such gross receipts paid to said utility by the City or other
governmental agencies.
   B.   Rental Fee: Upon November 1 and May 1 of each year thereafter, every
person using the streets, highways, alleys, parks or other public places within
the City with poles, structures, towers, conduits, wires, cables, crossarms,
fixtures and appurtenances shall pay to the City a rental equal to two percent
(2%) of the gross receipts received by such person from its sale of telephone
service derived from subscribers to such telephone service within the corporate
limits of the City for the six (6) months preceding September 30 and March 31
of each year, excluding from such gross receipts all amounts paid to such
person by the City or other governmental agencies, which sum shall be paid to
the tax collector of the City, who shall thereupon deliver to the person paying
the same a receipt for the amount so paid as a rental.
   C.   Proration: If the first payment required to be made hereunder shall be
for a period of not less than six (6) months preceding September 30, then the
time actually elapsing from the effective date hereof to September 30 shall be
prorated for the actual time on the basis herein provided.
   D.   Relation to Franchises, Fees and Taxes: Any special taxes, rentals,
contributions or charges accruing before the effective date hereof under terms
of any pre-existing ordinance, contract or franchise against any such person,
when paid to the City, shall be credited on the amount owed by such person as a
charge or rental imposed for the use of the streets, alleys and other public
places and ways within the City, and the tax collector of the City is hereby
authorized to give credit to such persons when they pay the street rental
charges in the manner described herein for all sums paid as special taxes,
rentals, contributions, charges or otherwise under the terms of any pre-
existing order, contract or franchise.
   E.   Violation and Penalties: Any person and the local manager or agent of
any corporation, association or organization, wilfully failing and refusing,
after thirty (30) days' written notice from the City Secretary, to make the
report hereinabove required and to pay the amount of the rentals herein fixed
shall, upon conviction in the Municipal Court of the City, be fined a sum not
to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00), and each day's failure or refusal shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 121, 7-18-41)
CHAPTER 4
RESERVED
   (Ch. 3-4, Contractors, repealed by Ord. 110-7-24, 7-16-24)
CHAPTER 5
JUNK YARDS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Nuisance Declared
3-5-2: License Required; Application; Fee
3-5-3: Conditions of License
3-5-4: Revocation of License
3-5-5: Violation and Penalty
3-5-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Hereafter, any place used or maintained by any person as a junk yard or dumping
ground or for the wrecking or disassembling of automobiles, trucks, tractors or
machinery of any kind or for the storing or leaving of worn-out, wrecked or
abandoned automobiles, trucks, tractors or machinery of any kind or of any of
the parts thereof or for the maintenance or operation of such place for the
accumulation of rubbish of any description, is hereby declared to be a public
and common nuisance 1 , being obnoxious and offensive to the inhabitants of the
City because of its interference with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property by said inhabitants and is prohibited within the City limits unless
the same is conducted in the manner hereafter stated, following the payment of
the license fee hereafter prescribed. (Ord. 112, 3-1-40)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4, Chapter 4 of this Code for nuisance provisions.
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE:
   A.   License Required; Application: Any person desiring to use or maintain
any property within the City for any of the purposes mentioned in Section
3-5-1 of this Chapter shall make written application to the City Secretary for
a license, which application shall set forth the name and address of the
applicant and a legal description of the property or premises upon which said
business is to be conducted, and the City shall have the power either to grant
or reject such application, pursuant to State law.
   B.   License Fee: If the application is granted, a license to operate such
business shall be issued by the City Secretary upon the payment of a fee of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) per annum.
   C.   Expiration and Renewal: Any license so issued shall expire on January 1
next succeeding the date of its issuance, but may be renewed from year to year
in like manner as is provided for the original license. (Ord. 112, 3-1-40; 1994
Code)
3-5-3: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Neat and Orderly Condition: Any person granted a license as provided
for in Section
3-5-2 of this Chapter shall keep the premises used in the operation and
maintenance of said business in a neat and orderly condition.
   B.   Fence: The property and premises on which such business is conducted
shall be enclosed by a right board fence at least ten feet (10') high and said
fence shall be kept in a neatly painted condition, and no junk of any character
or parts or machinery of any kind shall be allowed to remain outside such
fence; provided, however, that any existing business of this character now
being operated and maintained in the City shall be allowed thirty (30) calendar
days within which to construct a fence of the kind and character required
hereby. It is declared that the intent of the minimum ten (10) feet high fence
is fully comply with any applicable State Law governing such uses; and to
completely obscure and impede visibility of the piled contents (such as metals,
etc.) from a normal street view perspective. Furthermore, for any new junk
yards or any pre-existing buffer fence to be replaced at existing junk yards,
the visual buffer shall be at a minimum ten (10) feet height, and shall be
comprised of pre-cast concrete wall panels, concrete masonry unit (CMU), wood,
masonry or masonry columns in combination with other permitted materials, or
any like materials - aluminum sheet material shall not be permitted in these
latter circumstances. The merits of these quality-of-life regulations regarding
visibility of piled items, shall be binding, once adopted by the Board of
Commissioners, to any pre-existing junk yard within the corporate limits of
Alamo, Texas. (Ord. 112, 3-1-40; amd. Ord. 151-12-24, 12-3-2024)
3-5-4: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Board of Commissioners of the City shall have the power to revoke the
license provided for herein at any time, for good cause, but only after notice
has been given to the owner of the business of a hearing to be held not less
than ten (10) days after the service of such notice. (Ord. 112, 3-1-40)
3-5-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the terms and conditions of this Chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 112, 3-1-40; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TAXICAB BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Permit Required; Application
3-6-3: Consideration of Application; Approval or Denial
3-6-4: Issuance of Business License; Contents
3-6-4-1: No License Issued to Certain Persons
3-6-5: Taxicab Permit Fees and Approved Number of Taxicabs
3-6-6: Statement of Registration; Adding or Changing Vehicles
3-6-7: Insurance Requirements; Solvency of Insurer; Suits
3-6-8: Conditions of Permit; Expected Conduct
3-6-9: Regulation of Fares
3-6-10: Taxicab Driver's Permit
3-6-11: License to be Posted
3-6-12: Applicability to Buses
3-6-13: Violation and Penalties
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONDUCT A TAXICAB BUSINESS: The use of one or more taxicabs within the
corporate limits of the City of Alamo, by the owner thereof for the purposes of
carrying passengers for hire, either by driving the same himself/herself or
having the same driven by some other person; provided, that this definition
shall not apply to any licensed chauffeur hired as an exclusive private driver
by any person, firm or corporation holding a bona fide permit to conduct a
taxicab business in the City of Alamo. However, Uber, Lyft, or other similar
type of transport services are not governed by these provisions.
PERSON: "Person" and all personal pronouns used herein shall apply to and
include partnerships, firms, businesses and corporations as well as
individuals.
TAXICAB: Any and all motor vehicles transporting passengers for compensation on
the basis of distance traveled, whether or not the service extends beyond the
City’s corporate limits; this does not include motor buses or motor coaches
operated by bus lines over designated routes in and through the City of Alamo.
TAXIMETER: Equipment affixed to a taxicab that automatically calculates fares
at a pre-determined rate or rates, and digitally registers the charge for hire
of a taxicab. NOTE: Every taxicab must at all times be equipped with a
functioning dome light which shall be electronically connected to a functioning
taximeter to indicate whether the taxicab is hired or is available for hire.
The dome light shall be situated on the front exterior portion of the roof of
each taxicab.
(Ord. 189, 8-16-45; amd. Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-2: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
Before any person shall conduct a taxicab business in the City, he/she shall
file with the City Secretary, or another responsible staff person designated by
the City Manager, an application to be reviewed, discussed, and if deemed in
the best interests of the City; then approved by the Board of Commissioners for
a taxicab permit to be issued. The application shall state the name and street
address of such firm; the name and street address of each taxicab driver
thereof, and the number/year/type/make of vehicles proposed to be operated
under such permit; inclusive of current insurance for each vehicle with
coverage limits legibly displayed.
(Ord. 189, 8-16-45; amd. Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-3: CONSIDERATION OF APPLICATION; APPROVAL OR DENIAL:
It shall be the duty of the City Secretary, or another responsible staff person
designated by the City Manager, that when an application for a taxicab permit
is filed in completeness and with all relevant documentation, with him/her,
that such application shall be presented at the next most available regular
meeting of the Board of Commissioners; said application to then be considered,
discussed, and acted upon pursuant to the City’s best interests.
(Ord. 189, 8-16-45; amd. Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-4: ISSUANCE OF BUSINESS LICENSE; CONTENTS:
A taxicab business in the City of Alamo shall be:
   A.   Issued a license; dated and signed and sealed by the City Secretary or
by another so designated by the City Manager's Office;
   B.   Bearing a city-sequenced serial number;
   C.   Shall show the full name and address of the licensee; their drivers'
license number or State Commercial Vehicle Operator's License; and if not a
U.S, citizen, valid resident alien registration;
   D.   Disclosing the applicant's place of residence for the twelve (12)
months immediately preceding the date of application;
   E.   Requiring to pay any outstanding City of Alamo traffic or parking fine
(s); or any city fine related to other matters.
   F.   Subject to signing a truthful statement of whether the applicant has
been convicted, ever, of any violation of a motor vehicle and/or traffic law
within five (5) years of the date of application, or of any non-traffic
violation of any State or of the United States, without regard to time period,
unless such records are sealed; and if so, as to each conviction, the applicant
shall identify the nature, date, and place of the offense; the date, cause
number, court, and final disposition of the conviction, and the sentence
received;
   G.   Subject to the applicant signing a written authorization document to
receive documentation pertaining to the applicants' driving, criminal, medical,
judicial, and other background information related to the applicant's fitness
to operate a motor vehicle, including fingerprint or database searches;
   H.   Disclosing the name, local address, and local telephone number of the
licensee under which the applicant is to be employed (if other than the
applicant);
   I.   Providing a certificate, executed by a licensed and practicing
physician in the State of Texas, showing that the applicant is not afflicted
with any physical or mental disease or disability which would impair his/her
ability to drive and operate a vehicle for hire in a safe manner; and such
certificate shall state specifically the conditions of the applicant's hearing
and eyesight including without limitation, color perception. Any false
information submitted shall be the basis for denial or revocation of a taxicab
permit;
   J.   Stating that the taxicab business has been authorized by the City's
Board of Commissioners to conduct a taxicab business until December 31 of the
same calendar year; however, said permit's validity and (renewal) fee rate
structure shall be subject to being prorated pursuant to Section
3-6-5;
   K.   Subject to cancellation at any time by the Board of Commissioners; said
action to be discussed, considered, and acted-upon during a regular or special
meeting of said Commissioners; and
   L.   Shall be subject to the taxicab license fee of one hundred dollars
($100.00) which is non-refundable.
(Ord. 189, 8-16-45; amd. Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-4-1: NO LICENSE ISSUED TO CERTAIN PERSONS:
A.   No City of Alamo taxicab license will be issued, nor a taxicab renewal
granted, to certain persons when the following circumstances apply; and when
such is discovered, that circumstance will be grounds for license revocation:
   1.   Any applicant who fails to provide the full and complete information
required of this Chapter; information is vital for the City to discern if a
taxicab license should or should not be issued; thus, not addressing the
required fields of criteria places the city's administration at an immediate
disadvantage.
   2.   Any applicant who fails to provide updated information within the
tenure provided in these regulations; or who provides false information in
order to obtain a license or renewal thereof.
   3.   Any person who has been convicted of three (3) or more moving traffic
violations or three (3) or more convictions and/or findings of liability under
this Chapter within the 12-month period immediately preceding the date of the
application or renewal application.
   4.   Any person who has been convicted, within the seven (7) years
immediately preceding the date of application or renewal application, of any
felony or any Class B misdemeanor or higher in which a motor vehicle was used.
   5.   Any person that is unable to read and speak the English language.
   6.   Any person registered in the National Sex Offender Registry database.
(Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-5: TAXICAB PERMIT FEES AND APPROVED NUMBER OF TAXICABS:
   A.   Each Taxicab Vehicle Shall Be Subject To A Permit Fee: At the time of
issuance of a taxicab permit, the permittee shall pay to the City Secretary, or
another responsible city official as assigned by the City manager, the sum of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each taxicab to be operated in the City
typically for a twelve (12) month period ending December 31; provided, that, if
such permit is granted for less than the full calendar year, the permittee
shall pay to the City of Alamo an amount prorated according to the number of
months for which the permit is issued. It is declared that only ‘full’ months
shall be determined in this process, i.e. any day after the beginning of the
month shall be deemed a ‘full’ month in which to include in the permitting and
related fee; there shall be no percent of a month’s fee to calculate.
   B.   Renewal; Inspection: There shall be paid to the City a license and
inspection fee of seventy-five dollars ($75.00) for each taxicab being operated
in the City, which fee shall be collected from every person owning and
operating a taxicab on the streets of the City before a license or renewal
thereof is issued; which license/inspection fee shall be paid annually in
advance covering the calendar year for which it is issued. Permits not renewed
on or before the end of the calendar year shall be subject to a thirty-five
dollar ($35.00) late fee.
   C.   The number of taxicab permits issued in the City of Alamo shall be
limited to a number equal to one (1) per five thousand (5,000) in population
based on the most recent U.S. Census data, as such may be updated from time to
time.
   D.   To maximize fairness, the City of Alamo declares that in no event shall
a taxicab permit be issued to another family member having a different taxicab
company; said family member related by in the first or second degree by either
affinity (marriage) or consanguinity (blood); inclusive of common law
relationships.
   E.   In no event shall there be a refund of any paid fees, as required
therein.
(Ord. 189, 8-16-45; amd. Ord. 545, 12-15-69; Ord. 739, 9-7-82; Ord. 100-5-24,
5-7-2024)
3-6-6: STATEMENT OF REGISTRATION; ADDING OR CHANGING VEHICLES:
Each permittee shall file a signed and sworn statement with the City Secretary,
or another responsible staff person designated by the City Manager, declaring
the make, model, motor number and State license number of each owned taxicab.
If at any time the holder of a taxicab permit desires to use any additional
vehicles under the issued taxicab permit, he/she may do so only after he/she
has made application to the Board of Commissioners to be processed for action
under the terms of this chapter, inclusive of the applicable fee rate
structure.
(Ord. 189, 8-16-45; amd. Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-7: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS; SOLVENCY OF INSURER; SUITS:
   A.   Insurance Requirements: The holder of any city taxicab permit shall, at
all times during the life of such permit, keep each and every taxicab vehicle
fully insured by a company authorized to do business in Texas at the minimum
set by State law; and the holder of any such taxicab permit shall provide a
legible copy of such policies, whereafter the City Secretary, or another
responsible staff person assigned by the City Manager, shall confirm with said
insurance company that the vehicles are indeed covered as so specified in the
insurance policies.. The permittee’s taxicab policies of insurance shall not be
cancelled or surrendered during the permits’ tenure of authorized activity.
However, if a taxicab’s insurance is cancelled or terminated, then the
permittee accepts the responsibility and duty to notify the City Secretary, or
another responsible person assigned by the City Manager, within twenty-four
(24) consecutive hours after such cancellation. Failure of any permittee to
secure and provide the insurance policies as required by this Chapter shall
immediately forfeit and nullify their taxicab permit, and all rights thereunder
shall at once cease. It is ordained that no formal Board of Commissioners
action is required to nullify any taxicab license/permit under such expired
insurance circumstances.
   B.   City Not Liable for Solvency of Insurer; Suits on Policy: Neither the
City nor any elected official, employee, representative, or any other city
officer shall be held liable, directly or indirectly, for the pecuniary/
monetary responsibility or solvency of any insurer under the provisions of this
Section. Furthermore, the City of Alamo shall not in any manner become
financially liable, directly, indirectly and/or by implication, for any sum on
account of any such claim or act or omission relating to the permittee’s
insured vehicle; nor shall the liability of the owner of any such vehicle be
limited or changed by reason of the provisions of this Section, but the
judgment or creditors having causes of action secured thereby shall be
authorized to sue directly on such policy of insurance without impleading
(bringing into a lawsuit) the City. Finally, all persons and/or entities known
to any insurer to have been injured or damaged in the same accident and
claiming damages thereunder, may be made parties without priority of claim on
payment in any suit on account of such matter.
(Ord. 189, 8-16-54; amd. Ord. 739, 9-7-82; Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-8: CONDITIONS OF PERMIT; EXPECTED CONDUCT:
   A.   Nonassignable; Revokable: Any taxicab license and/or taxicab permit
issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be non-assignable, and may be
revoked by the Board of Commissioners for cause during a regularly scheduled
Board of Commissioners meeting to discuss and assess whether or not the
permittee violated any provision(s) of this Chapter or failed to comply with
any requirement(s) hereof. However, and as noted in Section
3-6-7(A), automatic revocation of a taxicab license and/or permit shall be
automatically imposed should the required insurance coverage be allowed to
expire.
   B.   Sign Required: Every holder of a permit granted under this Chapter
shall place a magnetic sign fastened or painted in contrasting colors with that
of the vehicle’s colors, The signage ‘Taxi - Permit No.       ‘ will be
displayed on each side door of every vehicle used as a taxicab; filling the
blank with the figures denoting the serial number of the taxicab permit. The
letters and figures shall not be less than five inches (5") in height.
   C.   Cruising Prohibited: It is unlawful for any taxicab driver to cruise
about seeking passengers who have not called for a taxicab service.
   D.   Parking on Street: It shall be unlawful for the holder of any permit
issued under this Chapter or the agent, servant or employee of such permittee,
to park any taxicab on the streets of the City, except at appropriate places
designated by the Board of Commissioners, and only while loading and unloading
passengers into and out of such taxicab.
   E.   Vehicle Ownership Required/Condition Of Motor Vehicle: It shall
hereafter be unlawful for any person conducting a taxicab business in the City
to use or operate, or cause to be used or operated as a taxicab, any vehicle
not owned by said person. Furthermore, any and all approved taxicab motor
vehicles must be in an efficiently operable condition as attested by semi-
annual (every six (6) months) mechanical inspection reports as undertaken by
bona fide mechanical inspectors; and within forty-eight (48) hours after said
reports are completed, the taxicab license/permit holder shall provide a
complete copy to the City Secretary, or another responsible city official, as
assigned by the City Manager.
   F.   Every taxicab driver that is transporting a passenger to a definite
point shall take the most direct route possible; factoring-in known street
construction projects or known 'closed' streets due to emergencies such as
major accidents or inclement weather. The taxicab driver will not transfer
passengers to any other vehicle during the duration of the trip except in case
of mechanical emergencies.
   G.   When a taxicab is in the process of being engaged/hired, the passenger
shall have the exclusive right to the full use of the passenger area; and the
owner or operator of any taxicab shall not solicit or transport additional
passengers, except with the consent and approval of the first passenger.
   H.   No taxicab driver shall transport at any one time more than the maximum
number of passengers recommended by the vehicle's manufacturer; such number
correlating to the available seat belts.
   I.   The taxicab licensee and permittee shall both assure that a taximeter
shall be installed at the middle area of the front dash board in such a manner
that the face thereof and the numeral thereon may be easily seen and read by a
passenger in any part of the taxicab. It is further required that the taximeter
shall be subject to inspection and testing; and that such testing results will
be kept in the perpetual administrative files of the licensee for each
permitted taxicab.
   J.   A taxicab driver shall report all traffic accidents they are involved
in while operating any motor vehicle, whether taxi-permitted or not. Also, a
taxicab drive shall provide prompt notice to the City of Alamo of any and all
citations issued to them while operating any motor vehicle to the City of Alamo
- in writing - no later than ten (10) working days following the date of the
accident and/or issuance of citation.
   K.   No taxicab driver shall operate any vehicle for hire for more than
twelve (12) hours in a twenty-four (24) hour period without an eight (8) hour
rest period.
   L.   No taxicab driver or holder of a taxicab license shall use abusive or
vulgar language in conversation with passengers prospective passengers, other
drivers, or other parties of interest in (potentially) using their taxi
services.
   M.   The taxicab driver, permittee, and/or licensee shall ensure that the
taxicab motor vehicle is operated for the comfort of the passengers and that
the vehicle's heating, cooling and ventilation system is in operation at all
times while passengers are present in the vehicle and is functioning in
accordance with the passenger's reasonable request.
   N.   Each taxicab license holder must accept cash, debit card or credit card
payments. In no event shall a surcharge be required when accepting credit card
payments.
   O.   A taxicab operator shall promptly return any luggage, merchandise, or
other property inadvertently left in the taxicab. If the owner of such property
is unknown, the driver shall immediately deliver to the taxicab licensee any
property left in the vehicle with a written report as to when it was left in
the vehicle and any other relevant circumstances. Thereafter, the licensee
shall tag the property, and attach to it a copy of the driver's written report;
and shall attempt to contact the owner as best as circumstances warrant. If the
owner of the 'lost and found' property is not located, the licensee shall turn
the property over to the Alamo Police Department no later than forty-five (45)
calendar days after its discovery in the taxicab.
   P.   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab operator or passenger to smoke,
including e-cigarettes, while inside a taxicab motor vehicle.
   Q.   A taxicab driver shall not refuse to transport a person who requests
the taxi services UNLESS: a) the person is disorderly; b) the taxicab driver
has reason to believe the person is engaged in unlawful conduct; c) the taxicab
driver is in justifiable fear for his/her physical safety; and/or d) the person
cannot present proof of ability to pay the fare.
(Ord. 189, 8-16-45; amd. Ord. 750, 11-4-82; Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-9: REGULATION OF FARES:
   A.   Fares to be Charged:
      1.   The minimum fare or flag drop to be charged for taxicab services
within the City limits shall be a minimum of seven dollars ($7.00); and fifty
cents ($.50) for reach additional one-fifth mile or fraction thereof. For fares
that originate inside Alamo’s corporate limits and will go beyond its city
limits shall be applied this same fee rate structure.
      2.   Two (2) passengers with the same origin and destination may travel
for a single fare. Each additional passenger over two (2) with the same origin
and destination shall pay a fare of one dollar ($1.00).
      3.   Passengers with different origins and destinations shall pay the
single passenger fare.
      4.   No charges shall be made for children zero to four (4) years of age
when accompanied by an adult.
      5.   Each passenger shall be entitled to carry two (2) pieces of luggage
or four (4) bags of groceries; or one piece of luggage and two (2) grocery bags
at no extra charge. Any additional luggage may be charged at no more than two
dollars ($2.00) each; or any additional grocery bag beyond the above shall be
charged at the rate of twenty-five cents ($.25) each.
      6.   Twenty-five dollars ($25.00) per hour waiting time will be charged
on stops requested by the patron, which charge must be recorded on the
taximeter and prorated.
   B.   Fare Posted: There shall be posted sign, in English and Spanish, a
posted sign in the back of the front passenger seat substantially showing the
rates charged by said taxicab as stated in Section
3-6-9(A) 1-6.
   C.   Refusal to Pay Fare: It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse to
pay the legal fare of any of the vehicles mentioned in this Chapter after
having hired the same.
   D.   Receipt for Fare Paid: It shall be unlawful for the driver of a
taxicab, upon receiving full payment of a fare, to refuse to give a receipt
upon the request of any passenger making such payment.
   E.   Refusal to Honor Fares: It shall be unlawful for the owner or driver of
any taxicab to refuse to convey a passenger at the rate specified on the rate
card displayed in such taxicab or demand or receive an amount in excess of the
rates displayed on said card.
(Ord. 739, 9-7-82; amd. Ord. 750, 11-4-82; Ord. 100--24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-10: TAXICAB DRIVER'S PERMIT:
It shall be hereafter unlawful for any person holding a permit to conduct a
taxicab business in the City, to permit any person who does not hold a valid
permit from the City as a taxicab driver, to drive or operate on the public
streets of the City any taxicab owned or used in connection with the business
of the permittee.
(Ord. 189, 8-16-45; amd. Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-11: LICENSE TO BE POSTED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a taxicab in the City without having the
taxicab license posted within said taxicab in a conspicuous place. (Ord. 545,
12-15-69)
3-6-12: APPLICABILITY TO BUSES:
This Chapter shall not apply to passenger buses operating under the regulations
of the Railroad Commission of Texas and coming into or passing through the City
for the purpose of loading and unloading passengers.
(Ord. 545, 12-15-69; amd. Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
3-6-13: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person who shall conduct a taxicab business in the City without a valid
permit, as required by this Chapter, or who shall fail to have all vehicles
used by him as a taxicab lettered and painted as provided in this Chapter; or
who shall use or employ as a driver of any taxicab owned by him any person who
does not have a valid permit from the City to drive a taxicab or any person who
parks or stands a taxicab on a street of the City, except when loading or
unloading passengers; or any person who violates any of the fares provisions
set out in Section
3-6-9 of this Chapter or any person who violates any other provision of this
Chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be
punished as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and each day of such violation shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 739, 9-7-82; amd. Ord. 100-5-24, 5-7-2024)
CHAPTER 7
MOTOR BUSES
SECTION:
3-7-1: License and Inspection Fee
3-7-2: Posting License Required
3-7-1: LICENSE AND INSPECTION FEE:
There shall be paid to the City a license and inspection fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) per annum for each motor bus operating and transporting people
for hire or fare solely within the City, which fee shall be collected from
every person owning and operating a motor bus on the streets of the City before
a license or renewal thereof is issued, which license fee shall be paid
annually in advance, with each license issued covering the calendar year for
which it was so issued. (Ord. 545, 12-15-69)
3-7-2: POSTING LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a motor bus in the City without having the
motor bus license provided for herein posted within the motor bus in a
conspicuous place. (Ord. 545, 12-15-69)
CHAPTER 8
OIL AND GAS WELLS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Definition of Person
3-8-2: Permit Required
3-8-3: Application for Permit; Fee
3-8-4: Notice of Filing Application; Hearing
3-8-5: Multiple Applicants for Same Reservoir
3-8-6: Land Interest Provisions; Royalties
3-8-7: Refusal or Issuance of Permit
3-8-8: Bond and Insurance Requirements
3-8-9: Inoperative Permits; Cancellation
3-8-10: Use of Public Ways
3-8-11: Operators
3-8-12: Rules of Operation
3-8-13: Acreage and Well Limitations
3-8-14: Exclusions from Provisions
3-8-15: Violation and Penalties
3-8-1: DEFINITION OF PERSON:
Where used in this Chapter, "person" means and includes any natural person,
corporation, association, partnership, receiver, trustee, guardian, executor,
administrator and a fiduciary or representative of any kind. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75)
3-8-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
From and after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for any person
to drill or commence to drill a well for oil or gas within the limits of the
City or to work upon or assist in any way the prosecution of drilling of any
such well, except as provided in Section
3-8-14 of this Chapter, unless a permit for the drilling, completion and
operation of such well has first been issued by authority of the Board of
Commissioners of the City to the permittee in accordance with the provisions of
this Chapter. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75)
3-8-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; FEE:
   A.   General Application: An application for a permit to drill, complete and
operate a well for oil or gas shall be in writing, signed by the applicant or
by some person duly authorized to sign on his behalf.
   B.   Fee: The application shall be filed with the City Secretary and
accompanied with a deposit of one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00)
cash as a fee to the City.
   C.   Acreage Designations: If the application is for a permit to drill an
oil well, the application shall be accompanied by a plat designating a forty
(40) acre oil unit. If the application is for a permit to drill a gas well, the
application shall be accompanied by a plat designating a three hundred twenty
(320) acre gas unit. If the application is for a permit to drill a well which
may be multiple-completed, i.e., one or more completions as anticipated oil
completions, the application shall be accompanied by a plat designating both a
forty (40) acre oil unit(s) and a three hundred twenty (320) acre gas unit(s).
Each such unit shall consist of contiguous acreage and shall be in as nearly
the shape of a square or a rectangle as is reasonably practical, taking into
consideration, however, such matters as existing property and lease lines,
boundaries of previously designated oil or gas units, natural boundaries,
availability of drill sites and other pertinent factors. None of the acreage
included in an oil unit shall have previously been included in a prior oil unit
which has been designated under the provisions hereof and none of the acreage
included in a gas unit shall have previously been included in a prior gas unit
which has been designated under the provisions hereof. Issuance of the permit
shall constitute approval of each such designation of unit, and the City
Secretary shall maintain a map of the City showing designated oil units and
designated gas units.
   D.   Maps, Leases and Contracts: Each such application shall state the
particular lot and location in the unit where the proposed oil or gas well is
to be located and shall have attached to it a description of the oil and gas
leases or drilling contracts with the owners of land covering the lots, blocks
or tracts in said drilling unit over which the applicant has control of oil
rights or gas rights, to the end that the application will show what proportion
and what parts of the drilling unit the applicant owns in fee or holds under
lease or drilling contract from the owners. The application shall also be
accompanied by a plat or map of the drilling unit, showing the designation of
the lots, blocks or tracts owned or controlled by the applicant and showing the
proposed site of the well. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75)
3-8-4: NOTICE OF FILING APPLICATION; HEARING:
Notice of the filing of each application for permit shall be given by the
applicant as follows:
   A.   Notice Requirements: At least ten (10) days prior to the date of
hearing on the application, a copy of the notice in the form hereinafter
prescribed shall be sent by certified mail to each owner and lessor of lots,
blocks and tracts in said drilling unit not owned by or under lease to the
applicant, addressed to the last known address of such land and lease owners if
known to the applicant, and a copy of such notice shall likewise be posted at
three (3) public places in the City at least ten (10) days prior to the date of
such hearing. Such notice shall state the lot and block number on which the
applicant is asking for a permit to drill and the date and place of hearing and
shall be in words and figures as follows:
Notice is hereby given that                            , acting under and
pursuant to the terms and provisions of "An Ordinance regulating the drilling,
completion and operation of oil and gas wells within the limits of the City of
Alamo, Texas, and providing for the public safety in connection therewith,
being City Code Title 3, Chapter 8, did, on the        day of
                   , 19    , file with the City Secretary of the City of Alamo
an application for a permit to drill a well for oil or gas upon Lot No.
               , Block No.                    ,                              ,
Alamo, Texas, in (Oil)(Gas) Unit shown on plat attached hereto. A hearing upon
such application will be held in the Commissioner's Meeting Room, City Hall, of
the City of Alamo, Texas, at                                               on
the            day of                     , 19    , at     M.
   B.   Proof of Notice: Proof of notice shall be made by the applicant by
filing with the City Secretary an affidavit containing a copy of the notice and
stating the date on which such notice was posted at three (3) public places in
the City, and an affidavit of the applicant showing the date and persons to
whom and the addresses to which the notice was mailed by the applicant.
   C.   Hearing: At the time fixed in said notice, a hearing on such
application shall be held in the Commission Meeting Room at City Hall. (Ord.
587, 7-1-75)
3-8-5: MULTIPLE APPLICANTS FOR SAME RESERVOIR:
In case there should be filed with the City Secretary, and pending at the time,
applications made by more than one applicant for permits to drill the same
reservoir or any single drilling unit within the limits of the City, that
application shall be granted, if otherwise sufficient, which shall be made by
the person holding the greater area of ground within the drilling block by
ownership in fee or by lease or other contract authorizing the drilling and
operation on land for oil and gas. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75)
3-8-6: LAND INTEREST PROVISIONS; ROYALTIES:
In the event an application for a permit for the drilling, completion and
operation of a well either for oil or gas shall be made by any person not
owning or not holding leases of oil or gas rights or drilling contracts from
the owners of all lots, blocks or parcels of land included in or embraced
within a drilling unit, a permit shall be issued to such applicant, heirs,
successors and assigns, only upon the following conditions in addition to such
other conditions as may be provided for in other sections of this Chapter, as
follows:
   A.   Contracts and Agreements: The applicant shall be free to enter into
such contracts and agreements with the owners of such other lots, blocks or
tracts as he may be able to make.
   B.   Options: If agreements are not reached with all owners of lots, blocks
and tracts within the drilling unit, then the owner of any given lot, block or
tract shall have the right or option, by notice to the permittee, given, in
writing, within thirty (30) days after the issuance of a permit for a well on
the drilling unit involved, either:
      1.   To treat his interest as a working interest and contribute toward
the actual cost and expense of drilling, completing and operating said well
with all necessary appurtenances, currently each month, in the proportion that
the number of square feet in area owned by him in the drilling unit bears the
total number of square feet embraced in said unit and thereupon receive the
same proportion of the oil produced and saved from such well or its value at
the well, at the option of the permittee, and a like proportion of gas well gas
and casinghead gas produced, saved and utilized or sold or the value of same at
the well, at the option of the permittee; or
      2.   To treat his interest as a royalty interest and receive, deliver
free of cost in the pipeline to which the well may be connected a share of all
oil produced and saved from such well equal to one-eighth (1/8) of the
proportion of the whole quantity of oil so produced and saved that the number
of square feet in the area owned by him bears to total number of square feet in
such drilling unit or, at the election of permittee, to receive such proportion
of the value at the well of the oil so produced, and to receive a like
proportion of the gas well gas and casing- head gas produced, saved and
utilized or sold or at the election of the permittee, the market value at the
well of such proportion of gas well gas or casinghead gas produced and sold or
used off the premises or for gas sold at the well, such proportion of the
amount realized from such sale.
   C.   Royalty Owed: If any owner does not exercise the right and option above
provided, the obligation shall then be upon the permittee, his heirs,
successors and assigns, to make settlement with such owner on the terms
provided in subsection B2 above, providing for the payment of a one-eighth (1/
8) royalty.
   D.   Reimbursement of Expenses: If the owner of a lot, block or tract shall
exercise option in subsection B1 above and treat his interest as a working
interest, as therein provided, the permittee shall be entitled to reimburse
himself for such owner's proportionate part of the costs out of such owner's
proportionate part of the oil, gas well gas or casinghead gas, or the value
thereof, before making deliveries of products or settlement for the value
thereof.
   E.   Surety of Owner: If option of subsection B1 is exercised by the owner
of any lot, block or tract, such owner shall, within the time provided for
notice of his election above set forth, file with the City Secretary a bond or
other obligation executed by such owner as principal and by an authorized
surety company as surety, in which such principal and surety agree, bind and
obligate themselves to pay to the permittee, his heirs, successors and assigns
currently each month that proportion of the actual and necessary costs and
expenses involved in the drilling, completion and operation of such well that
the number of square feet embraced within the lot, block or tract of such owner
bears to the total number of square feet in such drilling block, such bond to
be approved by the Mayor and held by the City Secretary for the benefit of the
beneficiaries therein.
   F.   Conditions of Permit Issuance: No permit shall be granted or issued for
the drilling of a well, except upon ground owned by the applicant or held by
him under oil and gas lease or drilling contract from the owner, giving the
owner's permission or authority to drill a well thereon. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75;
1994 Code)
3-8-7: REFUSAL OR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority to Refuse Permit: The Board of Commissioners shall have the
power, and reserves the authority, to refuse any application for a permit to
drill any well at any particular location within any drilling block, where by
reason of such particular location and the character and value of the permanent
improvements already erected on the drilling block in question or adjacent
thereto or because of the use to which the land and surroundings are adapted
for school, college, hospital, park or civic purposes or for health reasons or
safety reasons or any of them, the drilling of such well on such particular
location might be injurious or be a disadvantage to the City or to its
inhabitants as a whole or to a substantial number of its inhabitants or to the
visitors as a group or would not promote orderly development and conservation
of oil, gas and minerals or orderly growth and development of the City, but
when a permit shall be refused for any of these reasons, but not otherwise, the
deposit in cash as a fee made with the application shall be returned to the
applicant, less one hundred dollars ($100.00) filing fee to be retained by the
City.
   B.   Approval: Except as hereinbefore provided, if an application be found
by the Board of Commissioners to comply in all respects with the terms of this
Chapter, the City Secretary shall issue a permit for the drilling, completion
and operation of the well applied for. The granting and issuance of a permit
for a well on a drilling unit or block, as provided in this Chapter, shall
automatically operate as a rejection and denial of all other pending
applications for a well to be completed in the same reservoir upon the drilling
unit or block involved, or any portion thereof. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75)
3-8-8: BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Surety Bond Requirements:
      1.   In the event a permit is issued by the Board of Commissioners under
the terms of this Chapter for the drilling and operation of a well, no actual
drilling operations shall be commenced until a surety bond, duly executed by
permittee, as principal, and by a reliable surety company authorized to do
business in the State, as surety, in the amount and upon the conditions
prescribed in this subsection shall be filed and approved, in writing, by the
City Secretary or until an instrument executed by the surety, as hereafter
prescribed, is filed with and approved, in writing, by the City Secretary which
makes the drilling and operation of such well subject to the terms and
conditions of two (2) surety bonds (totalling $200,000.00 in the aggregate)
previously filed by permittee hereunder.
      2.   Applicant's bond to be filed hereunder shall be in the sum of not
less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) and shall run to the City
for the benefit of the City and all persons concerned, conditioned that the
permittee will comply with the terms and conditions of this Chapter in the
drilling and operation of the well, that the permittee will promptly restore
the streets and sidewalks and other public property of the City, which may be
disturbed or damaged in the operations, to their former conditions, as near as
practicable, that the permittee will promptly clear all premises of all litter,
trash, waste and other substances used, allowed or occurring in the drilling
and producing operations and will grade, level and restore said property to the
same surface condition, as near as practicable, as existed when operations for
the drilling of the well were first commenced, and that the permittee will
indemnify and hold the City harmless from any and all liability growing out of
or attributable to the granting of such permit.
      3.   Any such bond filed by a permittee hereunder shall become effective
on or before the date filed with the City Secretary and remain in force and
effect until the expiration of the term of the permit issued; subject, however,
to the right of the surety company to cancel same after thirty (30) days'
written notice of such intention has been given to the City Secretary, but the
privilege of cancellation shall not affect any liability which may have arisen
hereunder up to the time the bond above provided for shall have been cancelled
and such cancellation shall automatically suspend his right to operate under
his permit until such time as permittee shall furnish another bond as required
by this Chapter.
      4.   If, in accordance with the provisions of this Section a permittee
has filed with the City two (2) one hundred thousand dollar ($100,000.00)
surety bonds to cover the drilling and operation of wells under this Chapter,
said permittee may drill and operate an additional well hereunder without
filing any additional surety bond as specified above; provided said permittee
files with the City an instrument (and obtains written approval thereof by the
City Secretary) duly executed by the surety company named as surety, in each of
the permittee's bonds on file with the City, agreeing that such bonds are in
full force and effect in the aggregate sum of two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00) and that the terms and conditions of each bond shall thereafter
likewise apply to the drilling and operation of the additional well named
therein.
   B.   Insurance Requirements:
      1.   In addition to the bond required, each person drilling an oil or gas
well shall carry public liability insurance in the minimum amount of one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for one person and three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for one accident and property damage insurance
in the minimum amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for one accident,
with a company authorized to do business in the State, which shall be in force
and effect during the drilling of such well and until the completion thereof as
a producing well or the abandonment and plugging thereof as a dry hole. A
certificate of insurance shall accompany the application for the drilling
permit and shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Commissioners.
      2.   In the event any oil or gas well is completed as a commercially
producing well, then permittee therefor shall be required to carry public
liability insurance in a minimum amount of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00) for one person and three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00)
for one accident, and property damage insurance in a minimum amount of five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for one accident, which shall remain in
force and effect and be so carried as long as such well is producing oil and
gas or either of them, in commercial quantities and until plugged and
abandoned. A certificate of insurance, subject to approval of the Board of
Commissioners, shall be furnished annually by the permittee or the owner and
operator of such well, showing that such insurance is being carried and
continues in effect. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75; 1994 Code)
3-8-9: INOPERATIVE PERMITS; CANCELLATION:
   A.   Commencement of Work; Cessation of Work: When a permit shall have been
issued, the same shall terminate and become inoperative without any action on
the part of the Board of Commissioners unless, within one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date of issuance, actual operations for drilling of the well
shall have been commenced, and after the operations for drilling of the well
shall have been commenced, the cessation of operations for drilling, prior to
completion of the well, for a period of six (6) months shall operate to
terminate and cancel the permit (save as otherwise provided with respect to the
relocation of such well according to Section
3-8-14 hereof) and the well shall be considered as abandoned for all purposes
of this Chapter and it shall be unlawful thereafter to continue the operation
or drilling of such well without the issuance of another permit; provided, that
if said well shall be completed as a well capable of production and shall
thereafter cease to be capable of production, the permittee shall have the
right to conduct reworking operations on said well within six (6) months after
it becomes incapable of production without having to procure a new permit.
   B.   Abandoning Premises; Return of Bond or Security: If and when any permit
shall terminate and become inoperative, as in this Section provided, or if and
when the permittee or his assigns shall file with the Board of Commissioners
written notice of his election to surrender his permit and abandon the premises
covered thereby, then if there are no claims under the bond and undertakings
shall have been filed within ninety (90) days thereafter, the City Secretary
shall return the bond, undertaking and/or security therefor furnished by the
permittee in connection with such permit, and if such claims are filed within
such time, upon the satisfaction or defeat of such claims, such bond,
undertaking and/or security shall thereupon be returned to the permittee or his
assigns. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75)
3-8-10: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful to drill any well for oil or gas within any of the streets
or alleys of the City or to block or encumber or close up any street or alley
in any drilling or producing operations, except by special permit by order of
the Board of Commissioners and then only temporarily. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75; 1994
Code)
3-8-11: OPERATORS:
   A.   Definition of Operator: The permittee in any drilling unit, or his
assigns, shall be only one person and such person shall be known as the
operator thereof for oil or gas and shall be held primarily accountable under
the provisions of this Chapter.
   B.   Other Persons: The interests of persons other than the operator who
hold oil and gas leases or equivalent contracts in any drilling unit shall be
treated as part of the total working interest of said block and such other
persons holding such interest shall each make the following election with the
operator prior to the time a well is commenced on said block, either:
      1.   To agree, in writing, with the operator to contribute their share of
all costs and expenses, properly allocated to said well and drilling unit each
month the proportion that the number of square feet in area held by them or
each of them in the drilling unit bears to the total numbers of square feet
embraced in said unit and to execute a bond or deposit securities to be held in
escrow by such depository as the City Board of Commissioners may designate to
secure such agreement; said bond or securities to be in an amount at any given
time sufficient reasonably to protect the interests of the operator under such
agreement, and thereupon said persons so acting shall be entitled to
participate in the total working interest under said unit, and said persons so
acting shall have the right, upon reasonable notice given to the operator, upon
the furnishing of storage tanks or facilities for handling the same and upon
the payment of or securing the payment of their share of the royalty interests
and any overriding royalty or oil payment interests thereof, to receive in kind
their proportionate share of oil or gas produced and saved from the well in
said drilling unit and allocated to the working interest of said well; or
      2.   If such other persons, or any one of them fails to elect under
subsection B1 above prior to the time operator commences drilling such well,
then he or they shall be deemed to have elected to agree that operator shall be
entitled to reimburse himself currently each month from such other persons'
proportionate share of the proceeds of sale or production in kind for twice the
amount of such other persons' proportionate part of the costs and expenses as
set out in the option in subsection B1 above. Provided, however, that operator
and such other persons, or any one of them, shall be able to alter the
obligations as set out in this Section by an agreement made by them, in
writing; provided, such agreement is not repugnant to other rules and
regulations set out in this Chapter.
      3.   Such other persons, as described in this Section, shall have ten
(10) days after receiving written notice of intention of operator to commence
drilling operations, within which to make the election set out in this Section
and such other persons may advise the operator as to drilling or operating the
well on said drilling unit, but final authority and responsibility therefor
shall rest solely on the operator. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75)
3-8-12: RULES OF OPERATION:
In operations under a permit, the permittee or his assigns must observe the
following rules, and the failure to observe the same shall be unlawful, as
follows:
   A.   Storage within City: After any oil and/or gas well is brought into
production, there shall be no storage or receiving tanks kept within the City
limits, but the same shall be kept on the outside thereof.
   B.   Pits: In no event shall earthen slush or mud pits be dug or used within
the City.
   C.   Field Working Tanks: No field working tank having a capacity of ten
thousand (10,000) barrels or more shall hereafter be built nearer than two
hundred feet (200') (measured from shell to shell) to any other like tank.
   D.   Signs: Printed signs reading "Dangerous, No Smoking Allowed", or
similar words, shall be posted in conspicuous places near each producing well,
tank battery, etc.
   E.   Combustible Materials: All permittees' premises shall be kept clear of
high grass, weeds and combustible trash, within the fenced enclosure around an
oil tank or producing well or, if there be no fenced enclosure, within a radius
of twenty five feet (25') around an oil tank or producing well.
   F.   Earthen Storage: Open earthen storage for oil is prohibited.
   G.   Oil Tanks: All oil tanks, where there is a gas hazard, shall be
gastight and provided with proper gas vents.
   H.   Open Flames: No open flame shall be placed inside the derrick of a well
showing oil or gas.
   I.   Pipelines: All oil and gas pipelines laid upon or across a public road
or highway must be buried to a reasonably safe depth.
   J.   Standard Operating Procedures: Standard operating procedures under the
applicable rules and regulations of the Railroad Commission of the State as
well as those ordinary practices adhered to by prudent operators in this area
shall be followed in:
      1.   The setting and cementing of surface casing and oil strings.
      2.   The testing of surface pipe and oil strings.
   K.   Blowout Preventers: Two (2) fluid-operated blowout preventers shall be
used for all drilling or completion operations involving the use of drill pipe,
casing or tubing after surface casing has been set. The mechanical operation of
blowout preventers shall be tested at reasonable intervals and, in addition,
they shall be tested with pump pressure frequently enough to insure good
working order at all times.
   L.   Testing Equipment: All wells shall be equipped with wellhead assemblies
and Christmas trees of working and test pressures, as provided in applicable
rules and regulations of the Railroad Commission of the State and, in addition,
shall conform with standard practice and procedures used by prudent operators
in this area.
   M.   Lighting Generators: No boiler or electric lighting generator shall be
placed or remain nearer than one hundred fifty feet (150') to any producing
well or oil tank.
   N.   Fire Hazards; Disposal of Wastes: Any rubbish or debris that might
constitute a fire hazard shall be removed to a distance of at least one hundred
feet (100') from the vicinity of wells, tanks and pump stations. All wastes
shall be disposed of in such manner as to avoid creating a fire hazard or
polluting streams and fresh water strata.
   O.   Fence Required: All producing wells, pits and tank batteries shall be
protected with a six foot (6') woven fence having a barbed wire guard at the
top and a gate with lock.
   P.   Slush Tanks: Only portable slush tanks for mud or water shall be
permitted in connection with the drilling and reworking operations. Said tanks
and their contents shall be removed from the premises and the drilling site
within ten (10) days after completion of the well.
   Q.   Motors and Engines: Motive power for all operations, after completion
of drilling operations, shall be electric or properly muffled gas or gasoline
engines. All pumping wells shall be equipped with electric motors, gas lift
facilities or properly muffled gas or gasoline engines.
   R.   Impurities: Permittee shall make adequate provisions for the disposal
of all salt water or other impurities which he may bring to the surface, such
disposal to be made in such manner as not to contaminate the fresh water
supply, present or prospective, or to injure surface vegetation.
   S.   Protection of Fresh Water:
      1.   In order to protect the fresh water sands which are the source of
water supply for this City, the casing program of all wells drilled hereafter
in this City not otherwise excepted from the terms of this Chapter shall
include surface casing of new or reconditioned pipe. Fresh water sands to be
protected are herein defined as those above a minimum depth of eight hundred
fifty feet (850') or greater depth as stipulated by the Texas Water Commission
or Texas Railroad Commission in the event special field rules are adopted.
      2.   To protect fresh water, a permittee shall set surface casing to the
depth stipulated by the Texas Water Commission or the Texas Railroad
Commission, in the event special field rules are adopted, but in no instance to
a depth less than one thousand one hundred fifty feet (1,150'), and cement with
sufficient cement to fill the arnulus from the casing set depth to the surface
and provide return of uncontaminated cement at the surface.
      3.   Cementing shall be by pump and plug method. Cement shall be allowed
to stand a minimum of twelve (12) hours under pressure and twenty four (24)
hours before drilling plug or initiating test.
      4.   After cementing, the surface casing shall be tested by pump pressure
of at least seven hundred fifty (750) pounds per square inch. If at the end of
the thirty (30) minutes the pressure shows a drop of one hundred fifty (150)
pounds per square inch or more, the casing shall be condemned. After the
corrective operations the casing shall again be tested in the same manner.
      5.   It is controllingly provided, that in the event a permittee can
establish to the satisfaction of the Board of Commissioners of the City that
said fresh water sands can be adequately protected by use of other means or
measures, any or all of the foregoing requirements may be waived by the Board
of Commissioners.
   T.   Waiver of Provisions: Any and all the provisions of this Chapter may be
waived by the Board of Commissioners of the City upon a showing by the
permittee to the satisfaction of the Board of Commissioners that the planned
manner of operation by the permittee or equipment to be used by the permittee
will adequately protect the public health, safety and welfare. (Ord. 587, 7-1-
75)
3-8-13: ACREAGE AND WELL LIMITATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to complete more than one well to each oil reservoir on
each forty (40) acre oil unit, as such phrase is defined herein 1 , and
likewise unlawful to complete more than one well to each nonassociated gas
reservoir on each three hundred twenty (320) acre gas unit, as such phrase is
defined herein, subject to the following:
   A.   Relocation of Well: In the event a well is lost or abandoned, the
permittee may, subject to the provisions of Section
3-8-9 of this Chapter, relocate the well on the unit involved and drill and
complete such relocated well under the permit for the replaced well by filing a
plat and certificate showing the abandonment of the well to be replaced and the
location of the substitute well; provided, however, that such proposed location
of the substitute well shall be submitted to the Board of Commissioners for its
approval and no substitute well shall be permitted until its proposed location
is approved by the Board of Commissioners.
   B.   Multiple Completions: Nothing herein contained shall be construed as
prohibiting multiple completions in the same well bore when authorized by the
rules of the Railroad Commission of Texas.
   C.   Spacing Regulations: In the event the spacing regulations of the
Railroad Commission of the State permit the drilling in any oil reservoir or
nonassociated gas reservoir to a greater density than the density of one well
to the forty (40) acre oil unit or one well to the three hundred twenty (320)
acre gas unit, then additional wells may be drilled in the various units to the
extent that the units may be developed in accordance with such spacing
regulations, and in the event additional wells are drilled, same shall be
drilled in accordance with the provisions hereof. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 3-8-3C of this Chapter.
3-8-14: EXCLUSIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Neither this Chapter nor any permit issued hereunder shall be interpreted to
grant any right or license to the permittee to enter upon or occupy in any
respect in drilling or production operations any land, except by the written
consent of the owner, nor shall it limit or prevent the free right of any lot
owner to contract for the amount of royalty to be paid with respect to his own
land or other consideration therefor, or for damages, rights or privileges with
respect thereto. Nothing contained herein shall be interpreted to require a
permit for the reworking, deepening or plugging back of any well or completing
of any well for the sole purpose of injection of water, gas or other
substances. (Ord. 587, 7-1-75)
3-8-15: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any violation of any of the terms of this Chapter, whether herein denominated
as unlawful or not, shall be deemed a misdemeanor, and any person convicted of
any such violation shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and any natural person so convicted shall be committed to
jail until such fine and the costs are paid, or otherwise lawfully discharged.
Each day of the continuance of such violation shall be considered a separate
offense and be punished separately, and any person, agent or employee engaged
in any such violation shall, upon conviction, be so punished therefor. (Ord.
587, 7-1-75; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 9
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: License Required
3-9-3: Application for License
3-9-4: Restrictions on Issuance of License
3-9-5: Location
3-9-6: Building and Premises
3-9-7: Conditions of License
3-9-8: Inspections
3-9-9: Suspension or Revocation of License
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT CENTER: Any place which has more than ten (10) coin-
operated amusement devices located on the premises.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE: All coin-, token- or slug- operated machines
used by the public as a game, entertainment or amusement, pastime or contest
and shall include those devices commonly known as: a) pinball games; b) video
games; c) rifle games; d) baseball games; e) skee-ball games; f) movie or video
booths or stands; and g) all games, operations or transactions similar to the
above-listed items by whatever name known, and providing, that these devices do
not have any of the following characteristics: 1) classification of the device
by the Internal Revenue Service as one requiring the payment to the Federal
government of a gaming device tax; 2) presence of any equipment which allows
accumulation of ten (10) or more credits, replays or free plays; and, 3)
presence of a "knock-off circuit" for the releasing and recording of credits,
replays or free plays, except for that circuitry required for normal game
operations. (1994 Code)
3-9-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a coin-operated amusement
center, either by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, without
first having obtained a license as herein provided. (1994 Code)
3-9-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
An application for license under this Chapter shall state the number and
description of the coin-operated amusement devices intended to be kept for use
on the premises. (1994 Code)
3-9-4: RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   B.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law.
   C.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is the keeper of
a house of ill fame.
   D.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   E.   A person whose license issued under this Chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   F.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license under a first
application.
   G.   A copartnership, unless all the members of such copartnership shall be
qualified to receive a license.
   H.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship and residence within the City.
   I.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   J.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought or
does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is to
be issued. (1994 Code)
3-9-5: LOCATION:
No coin-operated amusement center shall be located within three hundred feet
(300') of any church, school or liquor store. (1994 Code)
3-9-6: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
   A.   Sanitary Conditions: The licensee shall cause the premises to remain in
a clean and sanitary condition at all times and shall place such waste
receptacles in and around the premises so as to accomplish the above.
   B.   Bicycle Parking Provided: A licensee shall provide adequate and orderly
parking for all bicycles and shall keep the storefront unobstructed so that the
sidewalks are clear and open to pedestrian traffic. (1994 Code)
3-9-7: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Closing Hours: It shall be unlawful for any coin-operated amusement
center to be open to the public at any time other than the following:
 
Sunday through Thursday  9:00 A.M. to 12:00 midnight
Friday and Saturday      9:00 A.M. to 1:00 A.M.
 
   B.   Gambling Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to permit gambling on the
premises. Any licensee hereunder who observes any gambling on the part of its
patrons or has reasonable grounds to suspect that gambling is taking place,
shall immediately cause the removal from the premises of such persons as are
involved in the gambling activity.
   C.   Cigarette Sales Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to permit the sale of
cigarettes on the premises.
   D.   Attendant on Duty: An attendant shall be on the premises at all times
in which the business is open to the public and shall be in such a position as
to have a clear view of all of the amusement devices and activity taking place
on the premises.
   E.   Noise Conditions: It shall be unlawful for the licensee hereunder to
permit such noise, either by mechanical means or noise on the part of patrons,
which shall cause disturbance to the adjacent and surrounding uses as would
cause the normal operation of said businesses to be damaged or unreasonably
disturbed.
   F.   Intoxicated Persons: It shall be unlawful for any licensee to permit
any individual under the influence of alcohol or drugs on the premises. Any
licensee who observes any individual on the premises who is under the influence
of alcohol or drugs or who reasonably suspects such persons to be under such
influence shall immediately cause the removal of said person from the premises.
   G.   Disturbing the Peace: All licensees hereunder shall have the
affirmative duty to report to the Police Department any and all incidences of a
"disturbance of the peace" 1  which take place within the licensed premises or
outside the premises within one hundred feet (100') from the entrance, whether
personally observed or upon complaint of adjacent businesses or residents,
immediately upon observation or notification. Failure to report to the police
as herein provided shall be deemed sufficient cause to revoke the license
issued hereunder. (1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Penal Code §42.01.
3-9-8: INSPECTIONS:
The Chief of Police or his designated agent shall make or cause to be made such
inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this Chapter and all other ordinances relating thereto and is hereby given the
power to enter or to authorize any law-enforcing officer to enter at any time
upon the premises to effectuate same. (1994 Code)
3-9-9: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Suspension of License: In addition to any other penalties as are
hereinafter provided, the City Manager shall have the authority to suspend, for
cause, any license issued hereunder up to a period of two (2) weeks when he has
received evidence of the violation by the licensee of any of the regulations
above set forth and has reasonably ascertained the truthfulness of said
evidence by any means available to him. Any licensee who is notified of any
such suspension as is herein provided shall, immediately upon notification,
forfeit the license issued hereunder to the City Manager for the duration of
the suspension period and shall cease to operate business during said time.
Upon the termination of the suspension period, the license shall be forthwith
delivered to the licensee.
   B.   Revocation of License: Any licensee hereunder who is found to be
unqualified to hold such license due to a failure to meet any of the
restrictions set forth in Section
3-9-4 of this Chapter or whose license has been suspended for cause, as
provided above, two (2) or more times shall be subject to having his license
revoked by the Board of Commissioners. Upon the occurrence of any of the above,
the Board of Commissioners or designated agent shall cause a notice to be sent
to the licensee for a hearing to determine cause as to whether said license
should be revoked, said hearing to be held within ten (10) days but no sooner
than three (3) days from the receipt thereof. Said notice shall set forth the
nature of the hearing and shall contain such information as is necessary to
reasonably inform the licensee of those violations for which he is being
charged and shall further set forth the time, date and location of said
hearing. The licensee will be given an opportunity to present such testimony
and evidence in his own behalf as he deems necessary. Upon the completion of
said hearing, the Board of Commissioners shall determine whether sufficient
cause has been shown which would require the revocation of said license and
shall, within five (5) days from the date of hearing, inform the licensee, in
writing, if their determination results in a revocation. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CARNIVALS, CIRCUSES AND MASS GATHERINGS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Applicability
3-10-2: Definitions
3-10-3: Permit Required
3-10-4: Application Procedures
3-10-5: Application Review
3-10-6: Grounds For Denial Of Permit
3-10-7: Revocation
3-10-8: Appeals
3-10-9: Penalty For Violation
3-10-1: APPLICABILITY:
The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to all carnivals, circuses,
and to any other organized event or meeting, the majority of which it to be
conducted outdoors and where over five hundred (500) people are expected to
attend. The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to events conducted by
governmental entities held on public property, to regularly scheduled sporting
events conducted by local secondary schools or colleges, or to retail shopping
establishments serving customers in the normal course of business. (Ord. 3-21-
95, 3-7-1995)
3-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to
them:
   CARNIVAL: An organized activity involving any amusement rides, games or
other festivities.
   CIRCUS: An organized entertainment activity using trained animals, acrobats
or clowns.
   MASS GATHERING: An organized gathering of people within the City limits
which attracts or is expected to attract more than five hundred (500) people
who will remain at the meeting location for more than two (2) continuous hours
and the majority of the activities will be conducted outdoors.
   PROMOTE: To organize, manage, finance or hold.
   PROMOTER: A person who promotes a carnival, circus or mass gathering. (Ord.
3-21-95, 3-7-1995)
3-10-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be illegal for a person to promote a carnival, circus or mass
gathering within the City limits without a permit issued pursuant to this
Chapter. (Ord. 3-21-95, 3-7-1995)
3-10-4: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   At least forty five (45) days before the date on which a carnival,
circus or mass gathering will be held, the promoter shall file a permit
application with the City Secretary's office.
   B.   The application must include:
      1.   Any and all promoters' names and addresses;
      2.   A financial statement reflecting the funds being supplied to finance
the carnival, circus or mass gathering and each person who is responsible for
supplying the funds prior to the event;
      3.   The name and address of the owner of the property on which the
carnival, circus, or mass gathering will be held;
      4.   A certified copy of the agreement between the promoter and the
property owner;
      5.   The location and description of the property on which the carnival,
circus, or mass gathering will be held;
      6.   The dates and times that the carnival, circus or mass gathering will
be held;
      7.   The maximum number of people the promoter will allow to attend the
carnival, circus, or mass gathering and the plan the promoter intends to use to
limit attendance to that number. Such number may be further limited by the
Chief of Police or Fire Marshal relating to code and traffic requirements;
      8.   The name and address of the owner of any carnival or circus;
      9.   A description of each step the promoter has taken or will take to
ensure that the City's minimum standards of sanitation and health will be
maintained during the carnival, circus or mass gathering;
      10.   A description of each step the promoter has taken or will take to
ensure that hazards of fire and smoke will be kept to a minimum and plans for
orderly dispersement of people in the event of a fire;
      11.   A description of all preparations being made to provide traffic
control, to ensure that the carnival, circus or mass gathering will be
conducted in an orderly manner and to protect the physical safety of the people
who attend the carnival, circus or mass gathering;
      12.   A description of the preparations made to provide adequate medical
and nursing care;
      13.   A description of the preparations made to supervise minors who may
attend the carnival, circus or mass gathering;
      14.   Payment of the appropriate permit application fee of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) plus an agreement to pay any additional cost to the
City due to the conducting of the event by the applicant; and
      15.   A certificate of liability insurance in the minimum amount of five
hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) per occurrence covering the normal risks
commensurate with the type of event. (Ord. 3-21-95, 3-7-1995)
3-10-5: APPLICATION REVIEW:
   A.   After a permit application is filed with the City Secretary's office,
the City Secretary shall send a copy of the application to the City health
authority, Fire Chief, Police Chief and Public Works Director.
   B.   Each City personnel described in subsection A of this Section shall
review the application and investigate the preparations being made concerning
public safety and welfare. Each City personnel designated in subsection A of
this Section shall submit to the City Secretary a written report stating
whether the department believes that the minimum standards of public safety and
welfare prescribed by the State and local law will be maintained and the amount
of extraordinary costs, if any, incurred by each department due to the
carnival, circus or mass gathering.
   C.   The City Secretary, upon receipt of all reports from the City
departments set out in subsection A of this Section, shall immediately forward
such reports to the City Manager.
   D.   The City Manager may deny the permit based upon findings as set out in
this Section. The City Manager may grant the permit upon a finding that the
requirements of the permit application have been met. The City Manager may
conditionally approve the permit requiring additional precautionary measures
and preparations be made by the promoter to provide that adequate protection of
public safety and welfare will occur, and the City Manager may condition permit
approval upon payment by the promoter of the extraordinary costs incurred by
City departments due to the carnival, circus or mass gathering. (Ord. 3-21-95,
3-7-1995)
3-10-6: GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF PERMIT:
After completion of the investigation and reports required by Section
3-10-5 of this Chapter, the City Manager, may deny the permit upon a finding
that:
   A.   The application contains false or misleading information or omits
required information;
   B.   The promoter's financial backing is insufficient to ensure that the
carnival, circus or mass gathering will be conducted in the manner stated in
the application;
   C.   The location selected for the carnival, circus or mass gathering is
inadequate for the purpose for which it will be used;
   D.   The promoter has not made adequate preparations to limit the number of
persons attending the carnival, circus or mass gathering or to provide adequate
supervision for minors attending the carnival, circus or mass gathering;
   E.   The promoter does not have assurance that scheduled performers will
appear;
   F.   The preparations for the carnival, circus or mass gathering will not
ensure that minimum standards of sanitation and health will be maintained;
   G.   The preparations for the carnival, circus, or mass gathering will not
provide that the event will be conducted in an orderly manner and that the
physical safety of persons attending will be protected;
   H.   Adequate arrangements for traffic control have not been provided;
   I.   The preparations for the carnival, circus or mass gathering will not
provide that fire and smoke hazards will be kept to a minimum;
   J.   The preparations for orderly dispersement of people from the carnival,
circus or mass gathering in the event of fire are inadequate;
   K.   Adequate medical and nursing care will not be available; or
   L.   Any other basis related to public safety and welfare of either the
people attending the carnival, circus or mass gathering or any other citizens
of the City. (Ord. 3-21-95, 3-7-1995)
3-10-7: REVOCATION:
   A.   The City Manager may revoke a permit issued under this Chapter if the
City Manager finds that preparations for the carnival, circus or mass gathering
will not be completed by the time the event will be begun or that the permit
was obtained by fraud or misrepresentation.
   B.   The City Manager shall give written notice to the promoter that the
permit will be revoked by delivery of such notice to the address provided by
the promoter in the application. (Ord. 3-21-95, 3-7-1995)
3-10-8: APPEALS:
   A.   A promoter or a person affected by the action of the City Manager in
granting, denying or revoking a permit may appeal that action to the Board of
Commissioners. The decision of the Board of Commissioners shall be final.
   B.   Should any action of the Board of Commissioners be appealed to a State
District Court in the County the scope of the appeal shall be governed by the
substantial evidence rule. (Ord. 3-21-95, 3-7-1995)
3-10-9: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   A person commits an offense if a person promotes a carnival, circus or
mass gathering without possessing a permit pursuant to this Chapter or, after
having received a permit, fails to perform any of the preparations or
conditions set out in this Chapter.
   B.   An offense under this Chapter is a misdemeanor, punishable as provided
in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   C.   Any violation of any provision of this Chapter may be enforced by
issuance of injunctive relief from a State District Court with jurisdiction in
the County. (Ord. 3-21-95, 3-7-1995)
CHAPTER 11
OUTDOOR SALES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definitions
3-11-2: Permit Required
3-11-3: Requirements
3-11-4: Sale Without Permit Prohibited
3-11-5: Sales In Certain Areas Prohibited
3-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
   MERCHANDISE: Includes:
   A.   Trees, shrubs, grass, plants.
   B.   Clothes, toys, car equipment, tools.
   OUTDOOR SALES: The sale or offering for sale of merchandise, whether new or
used, from any location within the city of Alamo other than at a commercial
permanent structure, at permitted business locations or by permitted peddlers.
(Ord. 28-11-09, 11-10-2009)
3-11-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
The owner of a property or any authorized occupant of such property with
written permission from the owner, before conducting an outdoor sale, shall
obtain a permit from the City of Alamo, the cost of which shall be three
hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 28-11-09, 11-10-2009; amd. Ord. 05-01-21, 1-
19-2021)
3-11-3: REQUIREMENTS:
The owner or the occupant with permission of the owner of a property who is
granted an outdoor sales permit shall abide by the following conditions which
are made subject to the permit:
   A.   Outdoor sales shall be limited to thirty (30) consecutive days per year
for each property and cannot be carried over if not all days have been used.
   B.   Outdoor sales permits are authorized only for the following holidays:
Easter, Mother’s Day, and Valentine’s Day.
   C.   The hours of operation shall not commence before eight o’clock (8:00)
A.M. nor extend beyond ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
   D.   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold at, or during, any outdoor sales,
unless the same is permitted by the state and the city.
   E.   A permit shall be nontransferable and shall be valid only for the dates
specified on the permit.
   F.   A permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous place for the entire
duration of the sale.
   G.   No permit shall be required for flower shops that have been in
operation for at least 1 year within City of Alamo city limits, unless the
proposed outdoor sales are located off-site from the shop’s property. All other
businesses, require an outdoor sales permit.
   H.   Applicant must provide a tax identification certificate issued by the
state comptroller.
   I.   Applicant must provide a detailed site plan illustrating a setback from
the curb or gutter of at least twenty feet (20.0') to the area of sale,
adequate parking, access from public thoroughfare, restrooms, a letter from the
owner of the existing business, if not owned by the applicant, and any other
information necessary for the city to issue a permit. No permit shall be issued
unless the location has the foregoing specifications or conditions.
   J.   If the selling activity involves the use or operation of a motor
vehicle, the applicant shall also file with the City of Alamo proof that such
business entity has, in force, a policy of liability insurance issued by an
insurance company licensed to do business in Texas, with minimum policy limits
as follows: one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person; three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for any single occurrence for bodily
injury or death; ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for any single occurrence
for injury to or destruction of property.
   K.   Only foods associated with the holiday for which the outdoor sales
permit is sold are permitted, for example, chocolate covered strawberries,
chocolates, etc. Applicants proposing the sale of food are subject to obtaining
a County Health Permit. (Ord. 28-11-09, 11-10-2009; amd. Ord. 05-01-21, 1-19-
2021)
3-11-4: SALE WITHOUT PERMIT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of such premises to conduct
thereon an outdoor sale without having first obtained a permit. (Ord. 28-11-09,
11-10-2009)
3-11-5: SALES IN CERTAIN AREAS PROHIBITED:
Outdoor sales are prohibited in any areas except for areas zoned general
commercial (C) and industrial district (M) as shown on the zoning map. (Ord.
28-11-09, 11-10-2009)
CHAPTER 12
GARAGE, YARD, AND PORCH SALES
SECTION:
3-12-1: Garage Sale Defined/Sanctions
3-12-2: Permits Required
3-12-3: Requirements
3-12-4: Sale Without Permit Prohibited
3-12-5: Sales In Certain Areas Prohibited
3-12-6: Use Of Street, Street Right Of Way Or Sidewalk As Place Of Business
3-12-7: Penalty
3-12-1: GARAGE SALE DEFINED/SANCTIONS:
A 'garage sale' is defined to mean a sale of personal property, merchandise
from any residential zoning district or any residence located in a non-
residential zoning district within the city. Personal property shall mean any
property which is owned, utilized, and maintained by an individual or members
of his or her residence, and acquired in the normal course of living in or
maintaining a residence. Merchandise, new or seemingly new, acquired for the
intent to re-sell it at a garage sale or obtained by consignment for sale at a
garage sale, is prohibited. Any operator of a garage sale who is found
violating this basic provision as just described, as a first infraction, shall
be subject to having their garage sale permit immediately revoked; and if the
garage sale is not shut down, a police officer may issue a citation for having
an unauthorized garage sale without a valid permit. Furthermore, should there
be a second infraction for the same violation (as described above) within the
next continuous twelve months following the first infraction, then the
privilege to secure future garage sale permits shall be suspended for the next
three (3) garage sale permit tenures, which may roll over to a subsequent
calendar year. (Ord. 14-04-01, 4-3-2001; amd. Ord. 05-01-22, 1-18-2022; Ord.
83-11-22, 11-1-2022)
3-12-2: PERMITS REQUIRED:
The owner or occupant with a garage, yard, or porch sale, shall obtain a permit
from the utility billing department of the city of Alamo, the cost of which
shall be ten dollars ($10.00). (Ord. 31-09-13, 9-24-2013)
3-12-3: REQUIREMENTS:
The owner of the property or occupant of a property who is granted a garage,
yard, or porch sale permit shall abide by the following conditions:
   A.   For any one location, garage sales shall be limited to six (6) permits
per calendar year. There shall be a minimum interval time gap of 60 calendar
days between such permits from being validly issued.
   B.   A permit will be issued to cover a period of no more than three (3)
consecutive days regardless of weather conditions, or other circumstances that
may inhibit the 3-day tenure.
   C.   The hours of operation shall not commence before seven thirty o'clock
(7:30 A.M. nor extend beyond six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
   D.   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold at or during any garage sale.
There shall be no sale of prepared food items either such as burgers, tacos,
etc.
   E.   A garage sale permit shall be nontransferable and shall be valid only
for the dates specified on the permit.
   F.   A garage sale permit shall be displayed in a conspicuous and highly
visible place for the entire duration of the sale; and,
   G.   If due to inclement weather or other validated matter beyond the
applicants' control, he/she asserts that the garage sale cannot be held on the
permit's scheduled days, the applicant may request within forty eight (48)
hours of the first permitted day, a replacement permit for other scheduled
dates or a permit-fee refund from the City of Alamo. Upon verification of
circumstances, the City of Alamo will void the previously issued garage sale
permit and may issue a replacement permit for other dates (or a refund if so
requested). Should a replacement permit be issued, it shall not be counted
against the limit in Section 3-12-3 (A). (Ord. 14-04-01, 4-3-2001; amd. Ord.
05-01-22, 1-18-2022; Ord. 26-04-23, 4-18-2023)
3-12-4: SALE WITHOUT PERMIT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of such premises to conduct
thereon a garage sale without having first obtained such permit. It is
expressly declared that should there be repetitive violations by particular
owner(s)/occupant(s), that their privileges to secure additional garage sale
permits for that calendar year may be forfeited due to the self-inflicted abuse
against the City's codes; such a permit boycott shall be made by the
collaborative assessment between the City's Planning Director, the City's Code
Enforcement Officer, and the City Manager. (Ord. 14-04-01, 4-3-2001; amd. Ord.
05-01-22, 1-18-2022)
3-12-5: SALES IN CERTAIN AREAS PROHIBITED:
Garage sales are prohibited in any area zoned commercial or industrial except
when an occupied residence is found to be located in such a non-residentially
zoned district. Also, should there be a garage sale permit issued that
continuously causes high risk traffic safety concerns and/or probable unsafe
pedestrian issues within the residential neighborhood and its surrounding
traffic entry/exit patterns, the City Manager, in collaborative assessment with
the Police Chief and Fire Chief, shall have the delegated right to deny such
garage sale permit applications or to reduce the number of garage sale permits
to a particular property with reasonable traffic safety measures imposed this
written assertion of the City's inherent Police Power has become necessary in
order to safeguard the health, safety, and general welfare of its residents to
thus assure the general public of the City's commitment to do so. Furthermore,
the garage sale operator has accepted and assumed the responsibility to assure
that patrons park their vehicles in a safe and neighborly manner because it is
the operators' garage sale event that is inviting patrons to park in their
residential area in the first place. Garage sale operators shall alert patrons
to not park in 'No Parking' zones, or in front of neighboring lots' driveways;
such mis-conduct may always be enforced by the Police Department, of course.
Should there be a patron who parks their vehicle in a 'No Parking' zone, for
example, then this violation will be held against the owner of the vehicle, and
against the garage sale permit holder for acquiescing in the violation. In this
latter 'acquiescing' determination, the City of Alamo, through the office of
the City Manager, shall revoke the privilege of securing garage sale permits to
the subject property for the next three (3) garage sale tenures, which may roll
over to the next calendar year because violating traffic safety measures, such
as parking in 'No Parking' zones, places entire residential neighborhoods at a
higher risk where emergency responding vehicles are impeded to access the
actual emergency in a prompt manner. (Ord. 14-04-01, 4-3-2001; amd. Ord. 05-01-
22, 1-18-2022; Ord. 83-11-22, 11-1-2022)
3-12-6: USE OF STREET, STREET RIGHT OF WAY OR SIDEWALK AS PLACE OF BUSINESS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any person to use street, street right of way,
sidewalk, plaza or other public place within the city as a place of business.
   B.   A person commits an offense if he/she uses any street, sidewalk, plaza
or other public place within the city as a place of business as herein
prohibited.
   C.   It is unlawful for any person to use street or street right of way
within the city to place any type of advertising for the announcement of the
sale. (Ord. 14-04-01, 4-3-2001)
3-12-7: PENALTY:
Anyone who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined in
any amount not less than one dollar ($1.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) per day. (Ord. 14-04-01, 4-3-2001)
CHAPTER 13
HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
SECTION:
3-13-1: Definitions
3-13-2: Levy Of Tax; Rate; Exception
3-13-3: Collection
3-13-4: Reports; Payments Of Tax
3-13-5: Duties, Authority Of Director Of Finance
3-13-6: Penalty
3-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   CONSIDERATION: The cost of the room in a hotel and shall not include the
cost of any food served or personal services rendered to the occupant of such
room not related to the cleaning and readying of such room for occupancy, and
shall not include any tax assessed for occupancy therefor by any other
governmental agency.
   DIRECTOR OF FINANCE: The director of finance of the city.
   HOTEL: Any building in which the public may, for a consideration, obtain
sleeping accommodations. The term shall include hotels, motels, tourist homes,
houses or courts, lodging houses, inns, rooming houses, apartments or other
buildings where rooms are furnished for consideration, but hotel shall not be
defined so as to include hospitals, sanitariums or nursing homes.
   OCCUPANCY: The use or possession of any room or rooms in a hotel for any
purpose.
   PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any occupant who has or shall have the right to
occupancy of any room or rooms in a hotel for at least thirty (30) consecutive
days during the current calendar year or preceding year.
   PERSON: Any individual, company, corporation or association owning,
operating, managing or controlling any hotel.
   QUARTERLY PERIOD: The regular calendar quarter of the year, the first
quarter being composed of the months of January, February and March, the second
being the months of April, May and June, the third quarter being the months of
July, August and September, and the fourth quarter being the months of October,
November and December. (Ord. 03-02-01, 2-6-2001)
3-13-2: LEVY OF TAX; RATE; EXCEPTION:
   A.   There is hereby levied a tax upon the cost of occupancy of any room or
space furnished in any hotel, where such cost of occupancy is at a rate of two
dollars ($2.00) or more per day; such tax shall be equal to seven percent (7%)
of the consideration paid by the occupant of such room, space or utility of
such hotel, exclusive of other occupancy taxes imposed by other governmental
agencies; provided, however, not less than the amount of revenue received by
the city from the tax at a rate of one percent (1%) of the cost of the room
shall be used for the purposes of advertising and conducting solicitations and
promotional programs to attract tourists and convention delegates or
registrants to the city or its vicinity. It is further provided that this money
is hereby authorized to be contracted with the chamber of commerce for the
purposes of providing such services on behalf of the city in accordance with
Vernon's Texas Code Annotated section 351.101.
   B.   No tax shall be imposed under this chapter upon a permanent resident of
such hotel. (Ord. 03-02-01, 2-6-2001)
3-13-3: COLLECTION:
Every person owning, operating, managing or controlling any hotel shall collect
the tax imposed by this chapter for the city. (Ord. 03-02-01, 2-6-2001)
3-13-4: REPORTS; PAYMENTS OF TAX:
The person responsible for collecting the tax due on the occupancies described
in section
3-13-2 of this chapter shall remit the tax to the city on the fifteenth day
following each month of collection as required in this chapter. Along with such
payment, the person required to collect the occupancy taxes levied in this
chapter shall file a report with the director of finance of the city showing
the consideration paid for all room or sleeping space occupancies in the
preceding monthly period, the amount of tax collected on such occupancy and any
other information as the director of finance or his/her designated
representative may reasonably require. Such report shall be in writing. In
addition to such report, the person collecting such occupancy tax shall also
forward to the city, on a quarterly basis, the report required to be filed with
the state relating to the hotel occupancy tax imposed by the state on such
occupancy. (Ord. 03-02-01, 2-6-2001)
3-13-5: DUTIES, AUTHORITY OF DIRECTOR OF FINANCE:
The director of finance shall adopt such procedures, rules and regulation as
are reasonably necessary to effectively collect the tax levied in this chapter,
and shall, upon request of any person owning, operating, managing or
controlling any hotel, furnish a copy of such procedures, rules and regulations
for the guidance of such person and facilitate the collection of such tax as
such collection is required in this chapter. Such procedures, rules and
regulations shall be in writing and copy thereof shall be placed on file with
the city secretary. The director of finance or his/her designated
representative shall be permitted to have access to books and records during
reasonable business hours as shall be necessary to enable the director of
finance to determine the correctness of the amount due under the provisions of
this chapter or to determine whether a report should have been filed and the
amount, if necessary, of taxes due. (Ord. 03-02-01, 2-6-2001)
3-13-6: PENALTY:
   A.   On the first day after the date on which any tax imposed by this
chapter shall be due and payable, there is hereby added to such tax a penalty
equal to five percent (5%) of the amount of such tax. If any such tax remains
delinquent for thirty (30) days after such due date, there is hereby added to
such tax an additional penalty of five percent (5%) of such tax. If any such
tax remains delinquent for a period of sixty (60) days after such due date,
then in addition to such tax and penalty, there is hereby imposed an interest
payment of the amount of such delinquent tax equal to ten percent (10%) per
annum until such tax or portion thereof is finally and fully paid in full.
   B.   In addition to any other remedies provided by law or by this chapter
for the collection of the tax imposed under this chapter, the city attorney, or
other attorney acting for the city attorney, may bring suit against a person
who is required to collect the tax imposed by this chapter, and pay the
collections over to the city, and in addition, such attorney may bring suit
against any person who has failed to file a report or pay the tax when it is
due, and enjoin such person from operating a hotel in the city until the tax is
paid or the report is filed, or both, as applicable and as provided in the
injunction. (Ord. 03-02-01, 2-6-2001)
CHAPTER 14
FLEA MARKETS
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definitions
3-14-2: Conditional Use Permit
3-14-3: Flea Market Permit
3-14-4: Code Inspection Fee
3-14-5: Copy Of Regulations
3-14-6: Merchandise Subject To Inspection
3-14-7: Prohibited Merchandise
3-14-8: Hours Of Business Regulated
3-14-9: Violators Barred From Displaying Merchandise
3-14-10: State Sales Tax Permit And Collection Required
3-14-11: Health Cards For Food Handlers/Vendors
3-14-12: Flea Markets To Be Located In A Commercial Zoning District
3-14-13: Minimum Development Standards
3-14-14: Construction And Development Plan Required
3-14-15: Other Conditions
3-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases, except where
the context clearly indicates otherwise, shall be defined as follows:
   FLEA MARKET: A type of bazaar or organized activity where persons sell,
swap, trade or barter sundry used items such as furniture, appliances,
electronics, household items, clothes, tools and other cut rate goods, usually
on the weekends. A flea market may be held outdoors where vendors display their
wares on tables, on the ground, or from vehicles, and may include makeshift
covered booths or stalls. A flea market may also be held indoors in large
covered buildings. A flea market may include food and beverage booths.
   FLEA MARKET OPERATOR: The person or entity who obtains a conditional use
permit and a flea market permit to operate a flea market.
   FLEA MARKET VENDOR: Any person who sells, swaps, trades, or barters any item
at a flea market.
   VENDING AREA: The area designated within the flea market that is divided
into individual vending booths or stalls.
   VENDING BOOTH OR STALL: A division of the vending area where flea market
vendors may sell, swap, trade, or barter any item. (Ord. 11-04-09, 4-21-2009)
3-14-2: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
No flea market shall be operated within the city limits without a conditional
use permit approved by the board of commissioners and issued by the community
planning and development department. A conditional use permit issued for a flea
market shall not be transferable and shall expire on the date stated on the
permit or earlier upon the transfer of ownership, occupancy or possession of
the land. (Ord. 11-04-09, 4-21-2009)
3-14-3: FLEA MARKET PERMIT:
In addition to any other fee required under title 10, chapter 13 of this code,
the applicant shall pay a flea market permit fee equal to ten dollars ($10.00)
for each vending booth or stall available for use by flea market vendors at any
time. This permit must be renewed annually. It shall be unlawful to operate a
flea market without a conditional use permit or a flea market permit issued by
the city of Alamo, Texas. (Ord. 11-04-09, 4-21-2009)
3-14-4: CODE INSPECTION FEE:
Prior to commencing business operations, a flea market operator shall pay a
code inspection fee of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) to the city to cover
the cost of a comprehensive code inspection addressing such issues as fire,
plumbing, and electrical. After initial startup, this code inspection shall be
conducted annually. The code inspection fee for subsequent annual inspections
shall be one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 11-04-09, 4-21-2009)
3-14-5: COPY OF REGULATIONS:
Every flea market operator shall furnish a copy of the regulations contained in
this chapter to every person who is allowed to display merchandise for sale
within such flea market. If the operator fails to comply with this provision,
his/her license may be suspended. (Ord. 15-07-06, 7-18-2006)
3-14-6: MERCHANDISE SUBJECT TO INSPECTION:
All merchandise on the premises of any flea market shall be subject to
inspection at all times by police officers and/or any code enforcement officer
and/or health official of the city. (Ord. 15-07-06, 7-18-2006)
3-14-7: PROHIBITED MERCHANDISE:
No merchandise shall be displayed for sale at any flea market if the
manufacturer's seal, identification number or brand has been removed or
obliterated. (Ord. 15-07-06, 7-18-2006)
3-14-8: HOURS OF BUSINESS REGULATED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the operation of a flea market
between the hours of five o'clock (5:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. (Ord.
15-07-06, 7-18-2006)
3-14-9: VIOLATORS BARRED FROM DISPLAYING MERCHANDISE:
In addition to other penalties provided herein, any person violating any
provisions of this chapter shall be barred from displaying any merchandise at
any flea market in the city. (Ord. 15-07-06, 7-18-2006)
3-14-10: STATE SALES TAX PERMIT AND COLLECTION REQUIRED:
To the extent required by state law, each flea market operator and flea market
vendor:
   A.   Must possess a state sales tax permit; and
   B.   Must be responsible for collecting the appropriate sales taxes and
reporting those taxes to the appropriate authorities. (Ord. 11-04-09, 4-21-
2009)
3-14-11: HEALTH CARDS FOR FOOD HANDLERS/VENDORS:
Any person who cooks, serves, or sells food at a flea market shall be required
to possess valid licenses and registrations issued by the proper authorities
for such purposes. (Ord. 11-04-09, 4-21-2009)
3-14-12: FLEA MARKETS TO BE LOCATED IN A COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICT:
All flea markets in the city shall be located in a commercial zoning district.
(Ord. 15-07-06, 7-18-2006)
3-14-13: MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
As part of, and in addition to, any other requirements that must be met to
obtain a conditional use permit to operate a flea market, a flea market
operator must meet the following minimum development standards:
   A.   Have access to an arterial street;
   B.   Have separate ingress and egress points;
   C.   Have adequate off street parking with a paved surface;
   D.   Have adequate and separate bathroom facilities for men and women;
   E.   Have sufficient trash and garbage collection containers on the
property;
   F.   Have designated vending areas that are divided into individual vending
booths or stalls that are not less than one hundred (100) square feet in area
with dimensions of not less than ten feet by ten feet (10' x 10');
   G.   Have paved access drives behind the vending booths or stalls that are
not less than twelve feet (12') in width, for use by flea market vendors as
delivery lanes only for loading and unloading merchandise or items;
   H.   Have paved walkways, for use by customers, along the front of vending
booths or stalls that are not less than twelve feet (12') in width;
   I.   All vending booths or stalls shall be delineated by lines painted on
the floor using an indelible white or yellow paint;
   J.   All vending booths or stalls shall be sequentially numbered, and the
number shall be painted with an indelible white or yellow paint, on the surface
of the customer walkway in front of the booth or stall using block numbers that
are not less than twelve inches (12") in height and eight inches (8") in width;
   K.   Selling, swapping, trading, or bartering of any item shall be conducted
within the confines of a clearly designated vending booth or stall;
   L.   All vending booths and stalls shall front on customer walkways;
   M.   All electrical, plumbing, mechanical systems installed must comply with
applicable city codes. (Ord. 11-04-09, 4-21-2009; amd. Ord. 07-02-17, 2-21-
2017)
3-14-14: CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIRED:
As part of, and in addition to, any other requirements that must be met to
obtain a conditional use permit to operate a flea market, a flea market
operator must submit a map or plat of the property on which the flea market
will be operated setting out the following details:
   A.   The zoning district in which the property is located;
   B.   Vending area within the property;
   C.   Vending booths or stalls within the vending area showing booth or stall
number;
   D.   Parking area;
   E.   Customer walkway in the vending area;
   F.   Separate bathroom facilities;
   G.   Fire lanes with ingress and egress points;
   H.   Describe the property by metes and bounds;
   I.   Locate the property with respect to a corner of the survey of the tract
or an original corner of the original survey of which it is a part; and
   J.   State all dimensions and distances of each vending area, walkways,
vending booth or stall, entrances, exits, and parking area.
   K.   The owner of the property or the owner's or proprietor's agent must
acknowledge the map or plat in the manner required for the acknowledgement of
deeds. (Ord. 11-04-09, 4-21-2009)
3-14-15: OTHER CONDITIONS:
The conditional use permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall contain such
other conditions as the board of commissioners shall deem appropriate.
Violations of any conditions of the conditional use permit or of this chapter
shall be grounds for revocation of the conditional use permit. (Ord. 15-07-06,
7-18-2006)
CHAPTER 15
BUSINESS OPERATOR'S LICENSE
SECTION:
3-15-1: License
3-15-2: License Fee
3-15-3: Fire Inspection
3-15-4: License To Be Available For Inspection
3-15-5: State Sales Tax Permit And Collection Required
3-15-6: Health Certificate
3-15-7: Business Operator Responsibility
3-15-8: Construction And Development Plan Required
3-15-1: LICENSE:
Every new business shall file a complete application for a business operator’s
license with the office of the Community Planning & Development Department
before engaging in business. It is strictly declared that any new business
being proposed shall have its own unique ‘business name’ and shall not be
similarly sounding or be substantially identical to any other existing business
in Alamo, Texas. The intent of having differing business names is to not induce
any confusion or cause delays in any possible calls for emergency services,
said calls usually being laced with stress and strain. (Ord. 16-08-09, 8-12-
2009; amd. Ord. 07-01-22, 1-18-2022)
3-15-2: LICENSE FEE:
Every new business shall pay a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to secure a
business operator's license. (Ord. 16-08-09, 8-12-2009)
3-15-3: FIRE INSPECTION:
Every new business shall pay a separate fee for an initial fire inspection. All
existing businesses shall pay an annual inspection fee. The following fees
apply:
 
Square Feet   Initial Inspection Annual Inspection
0 - 1,999     $ 75.00            $ 40.00
2,000 - 4,999 100.00             70.00
5,000 - 7,999 150.00             100.00
Over 8,000    300.00             150.00
 
(Ord. 30-09-13, 9-24-2013)
3-15-4: LICENSE TO BE AVAILABLE FOR INSPECTION:
Every business operator while engaged in the pursuit of his/her business shall
have posted in public view and available for inspection at all times, his/her
business license to be engaged in commerce. (Ord. 16-08-09, 8-12-2009)
3-15-5: STATE SALES TAX PERMIT AND COLLECTION REQUIRED:
To the extent required by state law, each business operator:
   A.   Must possess a state sales tax permit; and
   B.   Must be responsible for collecting the appropriate sales taxes and
reporting those taxes to the appropriate authorities. (Ord. 16-08-09, 8-12-
2009)
3-15-6: HEALTH CERTIFICATE:
Any person in a business who shall handle produce or consumable prepared foods,
either as owner or employee, must have a health permit from the Hidalgo County
health department, and such permit must be prominently displayed. (Ord. 16-08-
09, 8-12-2009)
3-15-7: BUSINESS OPERATOR RESPONSIBILITY:
All business operators shall ensure that all establishments:
   A.   Have access to an arterial street;
   B.   Have adequate off street parking that meets city code requirements;
   C.   Have adequate sanitary (restrooms) facilities for men and women that
meet all applicable city codes;
   D.   Have adequate on-site garbage and trash collection containers that meet
all applicable city codes and any applicable contractual obligations the City
of Alamo may have with its authorized solid waste company. If the business will
have a dumpster bin, it shall comply with the specificity and intent of Section
4-3-3 (F), i.e., said dumpster bin shall be entirely buffered with an opaque
fence/wall; and equipped with gates to entirely buffer it. These provisions
shall be applicable to any nonresidential user or multi-family development
owner, even if the nonresidential user or multi-family development pre-existed
the adoption of this provision, and where their dumpster bin has been
determined by the City of Alamo to induce or create a health risk to the
public, patrons, tenants, and/or its own employees; however, should the
dumpster bin historically be on City ROW, the matter will be resolved on a
case-by-case basis as assessed/determined by the City Manager's Office, the
operator/owner, the city's solid waste provider, and/or other appropriate city
departments. Prior to the construction of the dumpster bins' enclosure, the
owner/agent shall secure pre-clearance from the City's solid waste provider to
assure appropriateness of approach, etc.;
   E.   Have fire prevention and protection equipment on site that meet all
applicable city codes; and
   F.   Comply with all applicable city codes.
   G.   A business that has or will have open storage of products that are
either discarded or stored, e.g., tires, etc., shall be required to totally
buffer the specific containment area with a 6' to 8' high obscuring enclosure;
this shall be mandated even though the business premises may not abut a
residential property. Major retailers that sell lumber, etc., are exempt from
this provision since such are commonly used to display their materials for
retail purposes. Furthermore, this fence buffer mandate shall be applicable to
any existing nonresidential user that has open storage without an obscuring
buffer and where such 'storage area' is deemed to induce or create a health
risk to the public, patrons, tenants, and/or its own employees.
(Ord. 16-08-09, 8-12-2009; amd. Ord. 46-09-23, 9-5-2023)
3-15-8: CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN REQUIRED:
All new business operations in the city shall submit a construction and
development plan detailing the zoning district, sales area, parking area, fire
prevention and protection equipment, fire lanes, sanitary facilities, garbage
and/or trash collection containers and abutting properties zoning district.
(Ord. 16-08-09, 8-12-2009)
CHAPTER 16
TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE TAX
SECTION:
3-16-1: Authorization Of Tax
3-16-2: Repeal Of Exemption
3-16-3: Rate Of Tax
3-16-4: Notice To Comptroller
3-16-1: AUTHORIZATION OF TAX:
A tax is hereby authorized pursuant to section 321.203(g) (consummation of
sale) of the Texas Tax Code on all telecommunications services sold within the
city. For purposes of this section, the sale of telecommunications services is
consummated at the location of the telephone or other telecommunications device
from which the call or other communication originates. If the point of origin
cannot be determined, the sale is consummated at the address to which the call
or other communication is billed. (Ord. 02-02-11, 2-22-2011)
3-16-2: REPEAL OF EXEMPTION:
The application of the exemption provided for in section 321.210
(telecommunications exception) of the Texas Tax Code is hereby repealed by the
city, effective on the date permitted by law. (Ord. 02-02-11, 2-22-2011)
3-16-3: RATE OF TAX:
The rate of tax imposed by this chapter is the same as the rate imposed by the
city for all local sales and use taxes as authorized by state law. (Ord. 02-02-
11, 2-22-2011)
3-16-4: NOTICE TO COMPTROLLER:
The city secretary shall forward to the comptroller of the state of Texas by
United States registered or certified mail a copy of this chapter along with a
copy of the minutes of the board of commissioner's vote and discussion on this
chapter. (Ord. 02-02-11, 2-22-2011)
CHAPTER 17
MOBILE FOOD VENDORS
SECTION:
3-17-1: Definitions
3-17-2: Permit And Application
3-17-3: Zoning And Location Restrictions
3-17-4: Design Requirements
3-17-5: Enforcement
3-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
               Shall include, but are not limited to:
               A.   Prepackaged food including, but not limited to, candy, beverages, and ice
EDIBLE GOODS:  cream.
               B.   Prepared food including, but not limited to, hot dogs, desserts, and pizza.
               C.   On-site prepared food including, but not limited to, shaved ice, sandwiches,
               and tacos.
FOOD SERVICE   Businesses that sell edible goods and have been inspected and approved by the
ESTABLISHMENT: Hidalgo County Health Department, including commercial kitchens and commissaries,
               and shall specifically exclude accessory or self-serve retail food sales.
MOBILE:        The state of being in active, but not necessarily continuous, movement.
               A parcel of commercially zoned property where through the required conditional
MOBILE FOOD    use permit regulatory process, mobile food vending structures congregate to offer
COURT:         food and/or beverages for sale to the public as the principal use of the
               property.
               Any business which sells edible goods from a non-stationary location within the
               City of Alamo. The term shall include, but not be limited to:
               A. Mobile Food Trucks: A self-contained food service operation, located in a
               readily movable motorized wheeled vehicle, used to store, prepare, display or
               serve food intended for individual portion service. See design requirement
               section for additional information. Mobile ice cream trucks are not designated as
               a mobile food vendor under this chapter and are not permitted to operate in the
MOBILE FOOD    City of Alamo.
VENDOR:        B. Concession Trailers: A vending unit which is pulled by a motorized unit and
               has no power to move on its own which is used to store, prepare, display or serve
               food intended for individual portion service. See design requirement section for
               additional information.
               C. Portable Buildings: A non-permanent building utilized to store, prepare,
               display or serve food intended for individual portion service. Food carts, hot
               dog carts, and any other type of push carts are not designated as a mobile food
               vendor under this chapter and are not permitted to operate in the City of Alamo.
NON-           Edible goods that are not required to be kept at a temperature below forty one
REFRIGERATED:  degrees Fahrenheit (41°F) according to the Federal Food and Drug Administration
               and the Texas Food Establishment Rules.
SELL:          The act of exchanging a good for a profit or in return for a donation.
STATIONARY     The position of the mobile food vendor when not in motion and addressing the
LOCATION:      public for the purpose of sales. (Ord. 09-03-17, 3-7-2017; amd. Ord. 14-03-21, 2-
               16-2021)
 
3-17-2: PERMIT AND APPLICATION:
   A.   Permit: Every mobile food vendor and mobile food court shall obtain a
conditional use permit issued by the City to conduct business and shall comply
with title 10, chapter 13 of this Code. Every permit, including a business
license and a Hidalgo County Health Permit, shall be displayed at all times in
a conspicuous place where it can be read by the general public on the mobile
food vendor's truck, concession trailer, or portable building.
   B.   Transferability: A permit issued under this section is not
transferable. Any new mobile food vending operator must apply as a new
applicant to fully comply with the applicable terms of title 3, chapter 17; and
the applicable zoning regulations of title 10's chapters 8, 9, and 13, before
conducting any business.
   C.   Permit Expiration: It shall be unlawful for any individual directly or
through an agent or employee to sell goods within the corporate limits of the
City after the expiration of the permit issued by the City.
   D.   Permit Form: In addition to the requirements of title 10, chapter 13 of
this Code, each mobile vending units’ operator/applicant, even in the mobile
food court permit, must each submit the following information in order to be
considered:
      1.   Sales tax number with a copy of sales tax permit; legal name of
business or entity.
      2.   Signed (notarized) permission from the private property owner and a
copy of any signed lease and/or rental agreement with said owner.
      3.   Name, phone number, and driver's license number of the operator/
applicant, and all employees operating within the mobile vending unit.
      4.   Proposed vending location and days/hours of operation; later hours
after ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. will likely require on-site uniformed security
to monitor the noise and traffic.
      5.   Description of all products being sold; should items be added to the
original inventory of products to be sold, these product descriptions shall be
provided to the City within seventy-two (72) working day hours.
      6.   Description of attached signage (all signs must be related to
business and attached to food unit); on a mobile food court permit, there shall
be only one (1) tenant sign permit issued for all operating mobile food
vendors.
      7.   Photo of mobile food truck, concession trailer, or portable
building; in a mobile food court permit, all mobile food trucks shall be vetted
for possible allowance as follows: first preference: the food trailer will not
be older than one (1) year; second preference: the food trailer will not be
older than five (5) years, as inspected and cleared by the Building Inspector,
the Fire Marshal, and the CP and D Director; the higher measure of inspection
by these three city officials will be fifty dollars ($50.00) (non-refundable);
and the thirrd alternative of possible allowance: any food trailer older than
five (5) years may be considered for placement BUT MUST secure the approval
from the CP and D Director, the Building Inspector, the Fire Marshal, AND the
City Manager; where terms of examined approval may include annual inspections
for structural and aesthetic features. The extra services of scrutinized
inspections of these four officials shall be a total of seventy-five dollars
($75.00) (non-refundable fee), said evaluation may likely require on-site
inspections. Furthermore, should any allowed unit ever be in need of
replacement, the City of Alamo shall provide a minimum of sixty (60) calendar
days for such replacement with pre-approval of the incoming unit. There is no
appellate process from the provisions specified herein.
      8.   State or government issued photo identification of each applicant.
   E.   Permit Fee:
      1.   The application for a single mobile food vendor or a mobile food
court conditional use permit shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), or
as the CUP fee may be amended from time to time. Once the conditional use
permit is approved, then the permit fee for each individual mobile food vendor
shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) each.
      2.   Mobile food vendor permits shall be valid for one (1) year from the
date of the conditional use permit approval. It is noted that if the permit is
not used within six (6) months after the date granted, the permit shall be
automatically cancelled.
      3.   Upon renewal the owner/applicant shall pay the CUP renewal fee of
two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), and update any changes in the permitting
documentation. The applicant must submit the application and the renewal fee
within thirty (30) calendar days before expiration of the conditional use
permit or risk reapplying as a new applicant.
   F.   Permit Denial, Suspension Or Revocation: A permit may be denied,
suspended or revoked through the process detailed in title 10, chapter 13, sec.
10-13-6 of this Code where:
      1.   The required information is incomplete or incorrect or shows that a
person is not otherwise entitled to conduct business as a mobile food vendor.
It is declared that revocation or suspension of an employers’ mobile food
vendor permit under this chapter terminates all subordinate employee permits,
too.
      2.   The opportunity to reissue a permit has been denied due to previous
violations as described in this section or other applicable sections.
      3.   The proposed business location has current violations of this Code.
      4.   A permit may be denied where:
         a.   An applicant is found to have an unpaid civil judgement(s)
against him/her which relates to the duties and responsibilities of the
permitted food vending occupation which shall be determined by the nature and
amount of the judgement, the relationship of the judgement to the purpose of
the permit, and the extent that the permit would allow someone to engage in
further activity that would lead to unsatisfied civil judgements; or
         b.   An applicant has been convicted of a crime which directly, or
indirectly, relates to the duties and responsibilities of the licensed food
vending occupation which shall be determined by the nature and seriousness of
the crime, the relationship of the crime to the purpose of the permit and the
extent that the permit would allow someone an opportunity to engage in further
criminal activity, e.g., fraud, appears in an official sex offender list, etc.
      5.   For non-conformity to the application location specifications and/or
requirements as well as to non-conformity to an approved location, plan and/or
diagram.
      6.   For not complying with the requirements of this section, the imposed
measures of the awarded conditional use permit, and/or any other ordinances, or
laws.
Appeal of permit revocation, suspension, or denial shall comply with title 10,
chapter 13, section
10-13-6 of this Code. (Ord. 09-03-17, 3-7-2017; amd. Ord. 14-03-21, 2-16-2021;
Ord. 49-09-21, 9-21-2021)
3-17-3: ZONING AND LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Distance And Location Regulations:
      1.   No mobile food vendor shall conduct business within any residential
zoning district or existing residential use. Mobile food vendors or a mobile
food court shall only be permitted through a conditional use permit within C
Commercial Zones.
      2.   A mobile food vendor may not be located within one hundred feet
(100') of the primary entrance of an open and operating fixed-location food
service establishment or restaurant. It is noted that during a city-sponsored
or other community or civic event, this threshold may be adjusted by the City
of Alamo with utmost consideration to magnify traffic/pedestrian safety.
      3.   No mobile food vendor shall locate on any private property without
written permission. A copy of the written permission to operate in a specific
location, signed and notarized by the private property owner is required; said
permission must also include the use of the sanitary/restroom facilities. This
written consent shall be newly required prior to any desired renewal of the
applicable conditional use permit.
      4.   Mobile food vendors (not in a mobile food court) shall be located on
private property, within the parking area and within fifty feet (50') of an
existing, permanent business operating in a building with a current certificate
of occupancy.
      5.   Mobile food vendors shall set back a minimum distance of thirty feet
(30') from a major thoroughfare. A mobile food court may have its mobile
vending units within thirty feet (30') from a major thoroughfare or minor
arterial, but with likely compensating safety features and screening such as
solid barriers, signage, etc., as approved through the conditional use permit
process.
   B.   Mobile Vending Regulations:
      1.   No person shall distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast
any commercial handbill in or upon any motor vehicle or upon any premises.
      2.   Mobile food vendors are for walk-up sales to pedestrians for food to
go only; and may not set up tents, tables, chairs or any other displays within
the selling areas. A drive-thru is not permitted in conjunction with the mobile
food vendor or a mobile food court. It is noted herein that due to the nature
of a mobile food court, it may permit a limited number of tables as reviewed/
approved through the conditional use permit process.
      3.   Each unit shall be equipped with a portable trash receptacle, and
shall be responsible for proper disposal of solid waste and waste water in the
sanitation facility legally accessed by the food service establishment. All
food vending properties, as well as surrounding areas (adjoining properties as
legally accessed) must be cleaned daily.
      4.   The use of mechanical loudspeakers or sound amplifiers for the
purpose of advertising any show, sale or display of merchandise is prohibited.
Mobile food vendors or a mobile food court will not be permitted to use any
sound generating device as a means to generate attention to its’ facility. Any
violation to this sound/noise regulation may risk the applicable permit to be
immediately temporarily suspended; this measure supersedes the typical
‘suspension’ process of sec.
10-13-6 since it’s temporary in nature.
      5.   No mobile food court or mobile food vendor, or the owner(s) of the
subject property, will not be permitted to have any flashing lights including
strobe lights, blinking lights, etc.
      6.   All mobile food vendors will be subject to inspection upon permit
application, random inspections, and renewals through the City's Planning and
Fire Departments, the County Health Department, and/or the City’s prevailing
health authorities.
      7.   Mobile food vendors shall provide the City with a copy of written
permission from the property owner on an annual basis to allow the operation of
a mobile vendor, and to allow the mobile vendor and their customers' access to
a public restroom on-site. A mobile food court shall do likewise in providing
annual consent from the property owner; and it is understood that on-site
restroom facilities will be constructed and available during operable hours in
a mobile food court setting. The number of restroom (stalls, urinals, etc.)
will be based on the proposed number of mobile food vendors and potential
customers.
      8.   Temporary connections to potable water are prohibited for a single
mobile food vendor. Water shall be from an internal tank, and electricity shall
be from a generator. A mobile food court may provide utility adjustments and
connections, as metered and pre-approved by the City’s building official, to
result in a safe and economically feasible utility delivery.
      9.   Mobile food vendors may operate only during the business hours of
the primary business on the property. A mobile food court shall have the hours
fixed during the conditional use permit process, but may be subject to
intermittent adjustment at any time as deemed necessary to provide a reasonable
measure of peace and tranquility to the general neighborhood. Should late hours
(after ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.) be proposed, then the City will likely require
on-site uniformed security, from a bona fide professional security firm, to
assure that any generated noise and traffic may be properly controlled.
      10.   All food vending employees must have a current food handler's
health permit issued by a bona fide health oversight authority. During the
City’s or County’s inspections, should an employees’ food handler’s health
permit be expired, the option to cease operations will be imposed until said
food handlers’ permit is acquired and presented to the City of Alamo.
      11.   Although the conditional use permit review process will mandate the
following, it is nevertheless herein stated that mobile food vendors, or a
mobile food court, shall not conduct sales at a location other than what was
approved by the Board of Commissioners, and shall not:
         a.   Be located on any driveway or fire lanes.
         b.   Be located in congested areas where the operation impedes
vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
         c.   Operate during any officially sponsored City event or activity,
unless it has been authorized and approved by the Board of Commissioners.
      12.   In addition to the provisions applicable to mobile food courts, as
cited in this chapter, and as may be specifically imposed through the
conditional use permit (CUP) process, the following shall also be imposed to a
mobile food court application:
         a.   Generally, a mobile food court shall be one hundred fifty feet
(150') from a single-family residentially zoned or single-family residentially
used properties; however, a mobile food court may be within this range but the
City may increase the (solid) six foot (6') buffering requirement or restrict
the hours of operation, either at the outset, or during the CUPs’ tenure, and/
or mandate uniformed on-site security to maximize sensitivity to the nearby
residents’ need for a peaceful ambience. On-site security may be required for
any late hours (after ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.) that the mobile food vendor may
desire.
         b.   A mobile food court shall have no less than four (4), and no more
than eight (8) mobile food vending units throughout its operating days/hours.
Should there be an instance that there are less than four (4) units that occupy
the mobile food court for fifty percent (50%) or more of the time of the
courts' operability, the CUP will be subject to review and possible
termination.
         c.   The minimum property size for a mobile food court shall be as
follows:
            (1)   Four (4) to six (6) mobile food vendors min. size of site ten
thousand (10,000) square feet
            (2)   Four (4) to seven (7) mobile food vendors min. size of site
eleven thousand six hundred and sixty-six dollars (11,666) square feet
            (3)   Four (4) to eight (8) mobile food vendors min. size of site
thirteen thousand four hundred (13,400) square feet.
            (4)   There shall be no deviation from the above minimum
thresholds.
         d.   As indicated in section
3-17-3A.5. a single mobile food vendor shall have a minimum setback of thirty
feet (30') from a major thoroughfare. However, in a mobile food court setting,
food vendors may be within the thirty foot (30') building setback, but if so,
the City of Alamo shall impose reasonable safety measures. It is further stated
that communal dining tables shall not be placed within thirty feet (30') from
any property boundary that fronts a major thoroughfare or minor arterial.
         e.   Mobile food vending structures shall be spaced at safe distances
from each other as determined by the Fire Marshal.
         f.   There shall be paved parking at mobile food courts’ outset -
there shall be no grace period to provide minimum paved parking. Furthermore,
the vending units shall be on a paved surface, too. It is hereby required that
there shall be a minimum of two (2) parking spaces per mobile food unit or one
(1) parking space for each four (4) seats for patron use, whichever is greater.
         g.   As part of the parking plan, an engineered detention plan that
complies with the property’s pre-development storage capacity, shall be
provided for the City’s review/examination.
         h.   The parking plan shall also show compliance to the City’s
Landscaping Codes regarding perimeter shrubs (to simultaneously act as a debris
‘net’), trees, flower beds, etc.
         i.   Any buffering that may be required shall not be less than six
feet (6') in height. No signage/logo/emblem or similar feature, shall be
placed, affixed, or painted on any buffer; but said buffer shall plainly remain
as originally constructed, and shall be maintained at all times to serve its
purpose. Should any buffer be in need of (solid) painting, it shall be a single
color and shall be earth-toned in shade/color.
         j.   No mobile vending unit shall be placed in a manner that may cause
a sight obstruction to general traffic/pedestrian patterns.
         k.   The Fire Marshal may impose marked/painted fire lanes, or other
safety guiding markings, as part of the conditional use permits’ approval; such
may be done at the outset, or at any time during the permits’ tenure.
         l.   A mobile food court shall have the owner(s) provide an on- site
building for restroom facilities; with fixtures (stalls, urinals, etc.) for men
and women to comply with the prevailing building code(s) plus reasonable
discernment based on the number of food vending units and potential patrons;
said sanitary facilities shall comply with the American Disabilities Act (ADA)
and shall always be subject to random inspection(s) to assure that they are in
a constant state of full functionality.
         m.   Vending units in a mobile food court setting shall have
electrical service provided by a permitted temporary electrical connection, or
on- board generators. The use of on-board generators shall require sound
absorbing devices used to contain or deflect noise from any external generator.
         n.   Each mobile vending unit shall have at least one (1) garbage
receptacle, as provided by the City’s solid waste provider, to be placed for
pick-up at a juncture that is safe for general traffic patterns; and once there
has been a pick-up service, each vending unit’s representative/employee shall
promptly place the unit in a location that is not readily visible nor in plain
view.
         o.   There shall be no individual signage for each vending unit. Any
signage that may be desired shall be on one (1) tenant sign (ground pole sign)
as permitted by the City’s sign regulations.
         p.   Each mobile food vendor in a mobile food court setting must apply
and secure their own business license/permit from the City of Alamo; should
there be circumstances that are continuously delinquent and the individual
mobile food vendor remains non-compliant, the City reseves the right to cancel/
nullify that specific business license; should the individual food vendor
continue to violate city codes, the City may further terminate the mobile food
court’s conditional use permit, as outlined in sec.
10-13-6 of this Code.
         q.   Should there be a Declaration of an Emergency related to a health
issue, each mobile food vendor may be required to provide a work safe plan to
include, but not be limited to, maximizing social distancing, washing hands,
providing sanitizing measures, etc., as part of their business practices to
keep operating. However, the City reserves the right to impose whatever
measures are reasonable and necessary to protect its citizens’ general health.
(Ord. 09-03-17, 3-7-2017; amd. Ord. 14-03-21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 49-09-21, 9-21-
2021; Ord. 82-11-22, 11-1-2022; Ord. 10.02.23, 2-7-2023)
3-17-4: DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Floors of the food truck, concession trailer, portable building must be
durable, non-absorbent, and easily cleanable material, including, but not
limited to, anodized aluminum, stainless steel, or tile. All junctures must be
properly sealed. All service lines and pipes must be installed off the floor to
allow for easy cleaning.
   B.   Walls must be durable, easily cleanable, non-absorbent and light in
color. Minimum wall materials include, but are not limited to, aluminum or
fiberglass reinforced plastic (FRP). Walls at vent hood and grill areas must be
covered with stainless steel or aluminum panels. Wall covering must be
installed to cover the entire height of each wall. Stud and utility lines may
not be unnecessarily exposed on the wall or prevent cleaning.
   C.   Ceilings must be light in color, non-absorbent, and easily cleanable.
Joints and rafters may not be exposed.
   D.   An extinguishing vent hood, as required by prevailing codes, shall be
required, and must be approved by the Fire Marshal. Said hood shall require
testing in the presence of the Fire Marshal or his/her designee.
   E.   The potable water tank must be permanently installed and of sufficient
capacity for food preparation, dishwashing and general cleaning.
   F.   The retention tank must be permanently installed and of at least
fifteen percent (15%) larger capacity than the potable water supply tank.
Potable water tanks must be located to prevent contamination from the
wastewater retention tank or other sources of contamination.
   G.   A three (3) compartment sink with a minimum of one hundred ten degree
(110°) water shall be provided for washing, rinsing, and sanitizing of utensils
and equipment during food preparation on the vehicle. Hand washing lavatories
shall be located convenient to all food preparation and utensil washing areas.
Each lavatory must be provided with hot and cold water and shall have a fully
functional water heater. Soap and sanitary towels must be available at each
hand sink at all times.
   H.   Refrigeration and hot food holding units must be provided to maintain
the required temperature of potentially hazardous foods, and shall comply with
the prevailing requirements of the Hidalgo County Health Department.
   I.   Food and single service articles must be properly protected and stored
at least six inches (6") above the floor.
   J.   Adequate lighting must be provided and properly shielded.
   K.   Outer opening including pop-up vents and sunroof must be insect and
rodent proof. Screens must be tight fitting and in good repair. (Duct tape is
not acceptable.) Each mobile vending unit shall be treated at regular and
necessary intervals with environmentally sensitive but effective insecticides,
inside and out, by properly licensed/certified companies. During inspections, a
fumigation certificate or rodent treatment receipts shall be made available for
inspection and copying by the inspector(s).
   L.   The food truck, concession trailer, or portable building must be clean,
inside and out, painted, and in good condition. Only one (1) servicing window
is permitted. In a food court setting, all food vending units, at its approved
inception, shall be subject to the vetting and administrative process of
permissible allowance as specified in Section 3-17-2 (D)(7). (Ord. 09-03-17, 3-
7-2017; amd. Ord. 14-03-21, 2-16-2021; Ord. 49-09-21, 9-21-2021)
3-17-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Community Planning and Development Department, the Fire Department,
and the County Health Department shall enforce the sections of this Code. If it
is determined that a violation of this chapter, or related others, has
occurred, the requirements in section
10-13-6 of this Code shall be implemented. (Ord. 09-03-17, 3-7-2017; amd. Ord.
14-03-21, 2-16-2021)
CHAPTER 18
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
3-18-1: Purpose And Intent
3-18-2: Definitions
3-18-3: Enforcement Of Chapter; Inspection
3-18-4: Classification
3-18-5: Location Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
3-18-6: Additional Regulations Concerning Public Nudity
3-18-7: Prohibition Against Children In A Sexually Oriented Business
3-18-8: License Required; Application
3-18-9: Issuance Of License
3-18-10: License Fee
3-18-11: Expiration Of License
3-18-12: Suspension Of License
3-18-13: Revocation Of License
3-18-14: Transfer Of License
3-18-15: Hours Of Operation
3-18-16: Signage Restriction
3-18-17: Exemptions
3-18-18: Injunction
3-18-19: Penalty
3-18-20: Appeals
3-18-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, morals, and general
welfare of the citizens of the City of Alamo, Texas (hereinafter referred to as
the "City"), and establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the
concentration of sexually oriented businesses within the City. The provisions
of this chapter have neither the purpose nor the effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market.
   B.   Findings: Based on evidence concerning the adverse secondary effects of
adult uses on the community presented in hearings, reports, and on findings
incorporated in the cases of City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres Inc., 475 U.S.
41 (1986), Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976), FW/PBS, Inc. v.
City of Dallas, 493 U.S. 215 (1990); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560
(1991), City of Erie v. Pap's A.M., 12 S. Ct. 1382 (2000), and on studies in
other communities, the City of Alamo Board of Commissioners finds:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments. Further, there is presently no mechanism to make the owners
of these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
      2.   Certain employees of sexually oriented businesses, defined in this
chapter as adult theaters and adult cabarets, engage in higher incidence of
certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other
establishments.
      3.   Sexual acts occur at sexually oriented businesses, especially those
which provide private or semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films,
videos, or live sex shows.
      4.   Offering and providing such space encourages such activities, which
creates unhealthy conditions.
      5.   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
sexually oriented businesses for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually oriented businesses.
      6.   At least fifty (50) communicable diseases may be spread by
activities occurring in sexually oriented businesses, including, but not
limited to, syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-
AIDS), genital herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella
infections and shigella infections.
      7.   Since 1981 and to the present, there has been an increasing
cumulative number of reported cases of AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency
syndrome) caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the United
States.
      8.   The Surgeon General of the United States has advised the American
public that AIDS and HIV infection may be transmitted through sexual contact,
intravenous drug abuse, exposure to infected blood and blood components, and
from an infected mother to her newborn.
      9.   According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts.
      10.   Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those
activities and maintain those facilities.
      11.   The findings noted in subsections B1 through B10 of this section
raise substantial governmental concerns.
   C.   Regulations Necessary: Sexually oriented businesses have operational
characteristics which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those
substantial governmental concerns.
   D.   Intent: It is the intent of the City Commission that the locational
regulations of section
3-18-5 of this chapter are promulgated pursuant to chapter 243 of the Texas
Local Government Code. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter the following words and phrases, except where
the context clearly indicates otherwise, shall be defined as follows:
   ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited, wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by depicting or describing of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   ADULT BOOKSTORE, ADULT NOVELTY STORE, OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial
establishment which has as a significant or substantial stock-in-trade, or
derives a significant or substantial portion of its revenues or devotes a
significant or substantial portion of its interior business or advertising, or
maintains a substantial section of its sales or display space for the sale or
rental, for any form of consideration, of any one or more of the following:
   A.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes, compact discs, slides, or other visual
representations, which are characterized by their emphasis upon the exhibition
or display of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas";
   B.   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use or
marketed primarily for stimulation of human genital organs or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of the user or others.
   ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
   A.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity, including
topless dancers, nude dancers or strippers, male or female; or
   B.   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   C.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the exhibition or display of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions that are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the public right-
of-way which advertises the availability of this type of photographic
reproductions; or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room for
a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
   ADULT THEATER: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear nude or semi-nude, or
live performances which are characterized by the exposure of "specified
anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities".
   CHILD CARE FACILITY: A building used as a day nursery, children's boarding
home, child placement agency, religious or charitable encampment for children
or any other place for the care or custody of children under sixteen (16) years
of age.
   DISTINGUISHED OR CHARACTERIZED BY AN EMPHASIS UPON: Means the dominant or
principal theme of the object referenced. For instance, when the phrase refers
to films "which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the
exhibition or display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas", the films so described are those whose dominant or principal character
and theme are the exhibition or display of "specified anatomical areas" or
"specified sexual activities".
   EMPLOYEE, EMPLOY, AND EMPLOYMENT: Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business on a full-
time, part-time, or contract basis, regardless of whether the person is
denominated as an employee, independent contractor, agent, or by another
status. Employee does not include a person exclusively on the premises for
repair or maintenance of the premises, or for the delivery of goods to the
premises.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The City Code Enforcement Officer or any employee under
the Code Enforcement Officer or any police officer of the City or such person
as may be designated by the City Commission.
   ESCORT: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY: A person who, or business association that, furnishes, offers
to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one its business purposes, for
a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT: Means and includes any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
   C.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
   D.   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE, NUDITY, OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female
genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus, or anal cleft with less than a fully opaque
covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple, or the showing of the covered male genitals
in a discernibly turgid state.
   OPERATE OR CAUSE TO BE OPERATED: To cause to function or to put or keep in a
state of doing business. Operator means any person on the premises of a
sexually oriented business who is authorized to exercise operational control of
the business, or who causes to function or who puts or keeps in operation, the
business. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually oriented business regardless of whether that person is an owner, part
owner, or licensee of the business.
   PERSON: An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   REGULARLY FEATURED OR REGULARLY SHOWN: A consistent or substantial course of
conduct, such that the films or performances exhibited constitute a substantial
portion of the films or performances offered as a part of the ongoing business
of the sexually oriented business.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT: A Single Family, Duplex, Townhouse, Multiple Family,
Mobile Home Park, Mobile Home District or area so designated by such uses.
   RESIDENTIAL USE: A property used for single family, duplex, townhouse,
multiple family, mobile home park, mobile home subdivision, or campground
purposes.
   SEMI-NUDE MODEL STUDIO: A commercial establishment which regularly features
a person (or persons) who appears semi-nude and is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, or photographed by other persons who pay
money or form of consideration, but shall not include a proprietary school
licensed by the State of Texas or a college, junior college or university
supported entirely or in part by public taxation; a private college or
university which maintains and operates educational programs in which credits
are transferable to a college, junior college, or university supported entirely
or partly by taxation.
   SEMI-NUDE OR SEMI-NUDE CONDITION: The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point. This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast,
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing
apparel, provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part. The showing of
the male or female buttocks, including with the use of a thong bikini,
lingerie, or similar revealing attire.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An adult arcade, adult bookstore, adult novelty
store, adult video store, adult cabaret, adult motion picture or movie theater,
adult theater, a nude or semi- nude model studio, or sexual encounter center, a
sex or love parlor, adult motel, or other commercial enterprise the primary
business of which is the offering of a service or the selling, renting, or
exhibiting of devices or any other items intended to provide sexual stimulation
or sexual gratification to the customer.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: A. The human male genitals in a discernibly
turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered; or
   B.   Less than completely opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following:
   A.   The fondling of another person's genitals, pubic region, anus, or
female breasts;
   B.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation, or sodomy; or
   C.   Excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of the
activities set forth in subsections A through B of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT: The increase in floor areas occupied by a sexually
oriented business by more than twenty five percent (25%), as the floor areas
exist on the date this chapter takes effect.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Means and
includes any of the following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-3: ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER; INSPECTION:
   A.   The Community Planning and Development Department, Police Department,
Fire Department, and County Health Department shall enforce the sections of
this chapter, and shall have the right to enter any premises for inspection
purposes during reasonable hours, to ensure the enforcement of this chapter.
   B.   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department and the City, including, but not limited to, the Department of
Planning, to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the
purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
   C.   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his agent or
employee commits an offense if he refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the
premises by a representative of the Police Department or the City at any time
it is occupied or open for business. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-4: CLASSIFICATION:
   A.   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
      1.   Adult arcades;
      2.   Adult bookstores, adult novelty stores, or adult video stores;
      3.   Adult cabarets;
      4.   Adult motion picture theaters;
      5.   Adult theaters;
      6.   Drive-thru businesses with persons in a state of nudity, or semi-
nude;
      7.   Escort agencies;
      8.   Nude model studios;
      9.   Any business that falls under the definition of a sexually oriented
business as defined under section 243.002 of the Texas Local Government Code.
(Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-5: LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   A person commits an offense if that person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business in any zoning district other than as
authorized for the applicable zoning district under the City of Alamo Zoning
Ordinance.
   B.   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within one thousand three hundred twenty
feet (1,320') of:
      1.   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple, or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
      2.   A public or private educational facility including, but not limited
to, child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools, kindergartens,
elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools, junior high schools,
middle schools, high schools, vocational schools, secondary schools,
continuation schools, special education schools, junior colleges, and
universities. "School" includes the school grounds;
      3.   A boundary of a Residential Zoning District;
      4.   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including, but not limited to, a playground,
nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball or tennis
courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas, or other similar public
land within the City which is under the control, operation, or management of
the City park and recreation authorities;
      5.   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined
in this chapter; or
      6.   An entertainment business which is oriented primarily towards
children or family entertainment.
   C.   A person commits an offense if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within seven hundred fifty feet (750')
of another sexually oriented business.
   D.   A person commits an offense if that person causes or permits the
operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure, or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   E.   For the purpose of subsection B of this section, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening structures or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in subsection B of this section.
The presence of a City, County or other political subdivision boundary shall be
irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements
of this section.
   F.   For purposes of subsection C of this section, the distance between any
two (2) sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line,
without regard to the intervening structures or objects or political
boundaries, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each
business is located.
   G.   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating on the date of the
passage of this chapter that is in violation of subsections A through F of this
section shall be deemed a nonconforming use. The nonconforming use will be
permitted to continue for a period not to exceed one year, unless sooner
terminated for any reason or voluntarily discontinued for a period of thirty
(30) days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged,
extended, or altered except that the use may be changed to a conforming use. If
two (2) or more sexually oriented businesses are within seven hundred fifty
feet (750') of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the
sexually oriented business which was first established and continually
operating at a particular location is the conforming use and the later
established business(es) is/are nonconforming. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-6: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS CONCERNING PUBLIC NUDITY:
   A.   It shall be an offense for a person to knowingly and intentionally, in
a sexually oriented business, appear in a state of nudity or engage in
specified sexual activities.
   B.   It shall be an offense for a person to knowingly or intentionally, in a
sexually oriented business, appear in a semi- nude condition, unless the person
is an employee who, while semi- nude, is at least six feet (6') from any patron
or customer and on a stage at least two feet (2') from the floor.
   C.   It shall be an offense for an employee, while semi-nude in a sexually
oriented business, to receive directly any pay or gratuity from any patron or
customer, or for any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity directly to
any employee, while that employee is semi-nude in a sexually oriented business.
   D.   It shall be an offense for an employee, while semi-nude, to knowingly
and intentionally touch or have any other form of physical contact with a
customer or the clothing of a customer.
   E.   It shall be an offense for a person to knowingly and intentionally,
appear in a semi-nude condition while visible from public right-of-way to the
general public. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-7: PROHIBITION AGAINST CHILDREN IN A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS:
A person commits an offense if the person knowingly allows a person under the
age of eighteen (18) years on the premises of a sexually oriented business
where persons are in a state of nudity and/or semi-nude. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-
2019)
3-18-8: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   A person commits an offense if he operates a sexually oriented business
without a valid license issued by the City for that particular type of
business.
   B.   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
City of Alamo. The application form shall be sworn to and shall:
      1.   Include the name and address of the applicant;
      2.   State whether the applicant meets each of the requirements set forth
in section
3-18-9 of this chapter;
      3.   Include the name and address of each person required to sign the
application pursuant to subsection D of this section, and the name, address,
and type of entity (if applicable) of each person or entity owned or controlled
by such person that owns or controls an interest in the business to be
licensed; and
      4.   Include such other matters, consistent with this chapter, as may be
specified in the application form. The application must be accompanied by a
sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business.
   C.   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the Community Planning and Development Director, or his designee.
   D.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he or she must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a twenty percent (20%) or greater interest
in the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under section
3-18-9 of this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted. If the applicant is not the owner of the premises on which
the sexually oriented business is to be operated, the owner of the premises
must provide written permission authorizing the application.
   E.   If the applicant is not the owner of the premises upon which the
sexually oriented business is to be located, then the owner(s) of the premises
must provide documentation in writing to the Community Planning and Development
Director, or his designee, that the owner has knowledge of the intended use of
the premises for the purpose of a sexually oriented business and has consented
to such use of the premises. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-9: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The Community Planning and Development Director or his designee shall recommend
approval of the issuance of a license to an applicant within thirty (30) days
after receipt of a completed application unless he/she finds one or more of the
following to be true:
   A.   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   B.   An applicant, applicant's spouse, or the owner of the property is
overdue in payment to the City for taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed
against or imposed upon the applicant or the applicant's spouse in relation to
a sexually oriented business.
   C.   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary for
issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
   D.   An applicant, applicant's spouse, or the owner of the property has been
convicted of a violation of a provision of this chapter other than the offense
of operating a sexually oriented business without a license, within two (2)
years immediately preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is
being appealed shall have no effect.
   E.   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
   F.   An applicant has been employed in a sexually oriented business in a
managerial capacity within the preceding twelve (12) months and has
demonstrated an inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented business
premises in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   G.   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is not
in compliance with sections
3-18-3,
3-18-4,
3-18-5,
3-18-6, and
3-18-7 of this chapter.
   H.   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business are not in
compliance with all applicable City laws, regulations, and City Commission
orders.
   I.   The premises are not connected to Municipal water and wastewater
systems.
   J.   An applicant, an applicant's spouse, or the owner of the property has
been convicted of a crime involving:
      1.   Any of the following offenses as described in chapter 43 of the
Texas Penal Code:
         a.   Prostitution;
         b.   Promotion of prostitution;
         c.   Aggravated promotion of prostitution;
         d.   Compelling prostitution;
         e.   Obscenity;
         f.   Sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor;
         g.   Sexual performance by a child; or
         h.   Possession of child pornography;
      2.   Any of the following offenses as described in chapter 21 of the
Texas Penal Code:
         a.   Public lewdness;
         b.   Indecent exposure; or
         c.   Indecency with a child;
      3.   Sexual assault or aggravated assault as described in chapter 22 of
the Texas Penal Code;
      4.   Incest, solicitation of a child, or harboring a runaway child as
described in chapter 25 of the Texas Penal Code; or
      5.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of the
foregoing offenses;
      6.   For which:
         a.   Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         b.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         c.   Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two (2) or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any 24-month period.
   K.   The City of Alamo Police Department shall conduct a background
investigation on the applicant regarding the applicant's compliance with
subsection J of this section.
   L.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the application.
   M.   An application that meets the minimum requirements of this chapter
shall be brought before the Planning and Zoning Commission of the City within
thirty (30) days of the recommendation of the Director of Planning. A public
hearing shall be held and the Planning and Zoning Commission shall review the
application and recommend approval or disapproval of the license to the City
Commission.
   N.   The application shall be brought before the City Commission within
thirty (30) days of the recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission. A
public hearing shall be held and the City Commission shall review the
application and shall approve or disapprove the issuance of the license to
operate a sexually oriented business.
   O.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the
sexually oriented business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be
easily read at any time. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-10: LICENSE FEE:
The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license shall be one thousand
five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Such fee is based on the cost of processing
the application, investigation of the applicant, and publishing the public
hearing with the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Commission. (Ord.
06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-11: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be renewed
only by application as provided in sections
3-18-8 and
3-18-9 of this chapter. Application for renewal should be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date, and when made less than thirty (30) days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
(Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-12: SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
The Community Planning and Development Director or his designee shall suspend a
license for a period not to exceed ninety (90) days if he determines that a
licensee or an agent or employee of a licensee has:
   A.   Violated or is not in compliance with sections
3-18-5,
3-18-6,
3-18-7,
3-18-11,
3-18-14,
3-18-15, and
3-18-16 of this chapter;
   B.   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the sexually
oriented business premises;
   C.   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   D.   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; or
   E.   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   The Community Planning and Development Director or his designee shall
revoke a license if a cause of suspension in section
3-18-12 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months.
   B.   The Community Planning and Development Director or his designee shall
revoke a license if he determines that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the Director of Planning during the application process;
      2.   A licensee, an agent or an employee has knowingly allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   A licensee, an agent or an employee knowingly operated the sexually
oriented business during a period of time when the licensee's license was
suspended;
      4.   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in subsections 3-
18-9J1 through J5 of this chapter for which time period required in subsection
3-18-9J6 of this chapter has not elapsed;
      5.   On two (2) or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense, occurring in or on the licensed premises, of a
crime listed in subsections 3-18-9J1 through J5 of this chapter or other breach
of peace, for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or persons
were agents or employees of the sexually oriented business at the time the
offenses were committed;
      6.   A licensee or an agent or an employee has knowingly allowed any act
of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual contact
to occur in or on the licensed premises. The term "sexual contact" shall have
the same meaning as it is defined in section 21.01, Texas Penal Code; or
      7.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the City for any ad valorem
taxes, Sales or other Taxes related to the sexually oriented business.
   C.   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   D.   Subsection B6 of this section does not apply to adult motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the licensee, agent or employee
knowingly allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation,
masturbation, or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within the public
view.
   E.   When the Community Planning and Development Director or his designee
revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee
shall not be issued a sexually oriented business license for one year from the
date revocation became effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the Community
Planning and Development Director finds that the basis for the revocation has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least
ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective.
If the license was revoked under subsection B5 of this section, an applicant
may not be granted another license until the appropriate number of years
required under subsection 3-18-9J6 of this chapter has elapsed. (Ord. 06-05-19,
5-21-2019)
3-18-14: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license is not transferable, nor shall a licensee operate a sexually oriented
business under the authority of a license at any location other than the
address designated in the application. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-15: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Sexually oriented businesses may remain open during the following hours of
operation:
 
                  Open       Close
Monday - Saturday 8:00 A.M.  2:00 A.M.
Sunday            12:00 noon 1:00 A.M.
 
(Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-16: SIGNAGE RESTRICTION:
No sexually oriented business, may advertise, promote, exhibit, or display
offensive, indecent, or lewd imagery, inclusive of business names with double
meanings. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-17: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   It is a defense to prosecution under section
3-18-6 of this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a
modeling class operated:
      1.   By a proprietary school, licensed by the State of Texas; a college,
junior college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      2.   By a private college or university. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-18: INJUNCTION:
A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business in
violation of this chapter is subject to a suit for injunction as well as
prosecution for criminal violations. Each day a sexually oriented business so
operates is a separate offense of violation. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-19: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the terms and conditions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided by the Texas Penal Code and as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
3-18-20: APPEALS:
An applicant contesting any disapproval, interpretation and/or the application
of any rule, standard, regulation, determination, requirement, or necessity set
forth in this chapter shall have the right to appeal the decision of the
Community Planning and Development Department, or their designee, shall file
written notice for an appeal within ten (10) days through the City Commission
by established procedures. (Ord. 06-05-19, 5-21-2019)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIRE MARSHAL
SECTION:
4-1-1: Office Created; Appointment; Compensation
4-1-2: General Responsibilities
4-1-3: Inspections
4-1-4: Order to Comply; Appeal
4-1-5: Enforcement of Provisions
4-1-1: OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTMENT; COMPENSATION:
The office of the Fire Marshal shall be filled by appointment by the City
Manager, upon recommendation of the Fire Chief and consultation with the Mayor
and Board of Commissioners. The Fire Marshal shall be properly qualified (job
qualifications are attached to Ordinance 88-07 on file in the office of the
City Secretary) for the duties of his office. He shall receive compensation for
his services as set by the Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 88-07, 8-16-88; 1994
Code)
4-1-2: GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
The Fire Marshal shall report directly to the Fire Chief. The Fire Marshal and
the Fire Chief jointly may detail such members of the Fire Department as
inspectors as, from time to time, may be necessary. The Fire Marshal shall also
recommend any amendments to this Chapter which, in his judgment, shall be
desirable. (Ord. 88-07, 8-16-88)
4-1-3: INSPECTIONS:
The Fire Marshal, upon complaint of any person having an interest in any
building or property adjacent, and without any complaint, shall have the right,
at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of examination, to enter into and upon
all buildings and premises within the City, and it shall be his duty, annually
or more often, to enter upon and make or cause to be entered upon and made, a
thorough examination of all mercantiles, manufacturing and public buildings,
together with the premises belonging thereto. If the owner or person otherwise
in charge of any premises refuses to allow the entry of the Fire Marshal for
the above purposes, the Fire Marshal may apply to the Municipal Court of the
City for a search warrant to conduct the inspection and otherwise carry out the
duties of the Fire Marshal hereunder.
   A.   Service Fee Rate Structure: The services provided by the Fire Marshal's
Office shall be pursuant to the Fee Rate Structure as shown on Exhibit A,
attached hereto. For any failed inspection(s) that induces a follow-up RE-
INSPECTION service by the Fire Marshal, no such re-inspection shall occur until
the owner/manager pays a re-inspection fee based on 50% of the standard
inspection service fee of Exhibit A. Furthermore, the Fire Departments' false
alarm response fee rates are reflected in Exhibit B.
(Note: Refer to Section
3-15-3 for initial and annual fire inspection fees for businesses.) (Ord. 88-
07, 8-16-88; amd. Ord. 15-02-22, 2-15-2022; Ord. 39-06-22, 7-21-2022)
4-1-4: ORDER TO COMPLY; APPEAL:
   A.   Findings; Order to Comply: Whenever the Fire Marshal shall find any
building or other structure which, for want of repair or by reason of age or
dilapidated condition or for any cause, is especially liable to fire and which
is so situated as to endanger other buildings or property or so occupied that
fire would endanger persons or property therein, and whenever he shall find an
improper or dangerous arrangement of stoves, ranges, furnaces or other heating
appliances of any kind whatsoever, including chimneys, flues and pipes with
which the same may be connected or a dangerous arrangement of lighting devices
or system or a dangerous or unlawful store of explosives, compounds, petroleum,
gasoline, kerosene, dangerous chemicals, vegetable products, ashes,
combustible, inflammable and refuse materials or other conditions which may be
dangerous in character or liable to cause or promote fire or create conditions
dangerous to the fireman or occupants, he shall order the same to be removed or
remedied and such order shall be forthwith complied with by the owner/occupant
of said building or premises.
   B.   Appeal Process: If the owner or occupant deems himself aggrieved by
such order, he shall, within thirty (30) days, file a written notice of appeal
to the Building Board of Adjustments and Appeals, which such Board of
Adjustments and Appeals shall serve as the Fire Code Board of Adjustments and
Appeals. Failure to file a written appeal shall constitute a waiver of any
further administrative relief by the aggrieved party. Such Board of Adjustments
and Appeals shall follow the procedures otherwise required of it and not in
conflict herewith as set out in the Building Code as adopted and amended by the
City 1 .
   C.   Enforcement; Penalty:
      1.   Enforcement by Board; Penalty: The Board of Adjustments and Appeals
shall have the authority to revoke, revise or order the enforcement of any such
order and any owner or person otherwise in charge of such building who fails to
comply with such order shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code, upon conviction for violation hereof.
      2.   Injunction: The City Attorney shall also have the authority to
enforce the provisions hereof by injunctive relief filed in a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 88-07, 8-16-88; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 1 of this Code.
4-1-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   The penalties provided for herein shall be recovered by the City in the
same manner as provided by law for the enforcement of fines, forfeitures and
punishment for offenses against the City.
   B.   Every day's maintenance of any of the conditions prohibited in any of
the foregoing sections shall be a distinct and separate offense.
   C.   All misdemeanors herein provided for shall be prosecuted, all fines and
forfeitures herein provided for shall be recovered and enforced in the same
manner as provided by law for the enforcement of fines, forfeitures, penalties
and punishments for offenses generally against the City 1 . (Ord. 88-07, 8-16-
88; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-4-1 of this Code.
CHAPTER 2
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Fireworks Declared Nuisance
4-2-2: Storage, Use And Sale Of Fireworks
4-2-3: Exemptions From Provisions
4-2-4: Penalty
4-2-1: FIREWORKS DECLARED NUISANCE:
Pursuant to the provisions of the Texas Local Government Code, section 217.042,
the board of commissioners of the city hereby declares fireworks to be a
nuisance per se. (Ord. 652, 8-1-1978)
4-2-2: STORAGE, USE AND SALE OF FIREWORKS:
   A.   1. Fireworks Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to have,
keep, store, use, manufacture, assemble, sell, handle, transport, except
transportation in interstate commerce, receive or offer for sale or have in his
possession with intent to sell within the city limits any fireworks of any
description except for subsection A2 of this section.
      2.   Exceptions:
         a.   The following specific facilities and permanent buildings and
portable building locations, as identified and defined herein, where fireworks
were sold in the area annexed to the city of Alamo by the city's property
annexation of November 18, 2008, will be allowed to continue to operate as
fireworks sales locations and buildings will be granted nonconforming use
status and will additionally comply with the specific regulations set out
herein:
            (1)   Mr. G's Fireworks, a permanent building, located at 1602 W.
Expressway 83, and portable stands located at corner of Expressway 83 and Cesar
Chavez Road in Alamo, TX.
            (2)   Valley Fireworks with one stand located at the corner of
Nebraska Road and North Cesar Chavez Road.
            (3)   Circle G's Fireworks with one stand located on North Cesar
Chavez Road one block from FM 495 at Gonzalez Tires.
         b.   For the purposes of this subsection A, a permanent building or
facility and a portable building or facility are defined as follows:
   PERMANENT BUILDINGS OR FACILITIES: At fireworks vending locations and
defined as a fireworks vending structure(s) constructed out of brick, wood and/
or metal with permanent foundations affixed to the ground that also provide
safe, off street, all-weather paved parking and walking areas with proper curb
cuts for safe ingress and egress of vehicles, permanently and fully lighted and
accessible parking lots for their customers and the public at the location when
the location is open to the public, and that were located in those areas
annexed by the city commission of the city of Alamo on November 18, 2008.
   PORTABLE BUILDING OR FACILITY OR SALES STAND: At fireworks vending locations
and defined as nonpermanent structures that are independently transported
separately and placed at their location regardless of having been connected to
any existing or other placed nonpermanent structure that provides for fully
lighted paved parking with parking lot lighting on at all times that the
location is open to the public, that have adequate curb cuts for the proper
ingress and egress of vehicles and which portable buildings must be seventy
five feet (75') from road right of way. Locations that were in existence and
located in those areas annexed by the city commission of the city of Alamo on
November 18, 2008.
         c.   Storage and sale of fireworks in the city of Alamo will comply
with Texas Occupations Code chapter 2154, the Texas rules for retail firework
sales and storage.
         d.   Purchasers of fireworks within the city of Alamo shall be allowed
to possess fireworks for the sole purpose of transporting purchased fireworks
outside the city and shall not be subject to citation for violation of this or
any other ordinance of the city of Alamo with regard to possession of fireworks
as long as such purchaser is transporting said fireworks and said fireworks are
inside bags or other similar containers which are located behind the last seat
in the vehicle or in the vehicle's trunk and the purchaser can show that the
fireworks are in their original packaging and have remained unopened.
         e.   Those businesses operating permanent and portable buildings for
the sale of fireworks to the public set out in subsection A2a of this section
shall secure a premises liability insurance policy in an amount not less than
two million dollars ($2,000,000.00) naming the city of Alamo, Texas, as an
additional insured under the policy and shall provide the city with a copy of
said policy by December 1 of each year prior to the three (3) main selling
seasons. Failure to do so will result in a violation of this subsection A. The
facilities identified in subsection A2a of this section shall not be allowed to
sell fireworks until said policy is provided to the city. Additionally, the
city of Alamo shall be given at least thirty (30) days' notice prior to the
cancellation of said insurance policy. (Ord. 17-11-11, 11-1-2011)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, throw or fire any squib,
rocket, cracker, torpedo, grenade, gun, revolver, pistol, cap or cartridge,
rifle or other combustible fireworks of any kind in the city. (Ord. 652, 8-1-
1978)
   C.   Upon a conviction for any violation hereof, the defiant shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 8-15-00, 8-15-2000)
4-2-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to apply to the sale, storage or use
of railroad track torpedoes or other signaling devices used by the railroads or
the sale, storage or use of flashlight composition by photographers or dealers
in photographic supplies. (Ord. 652, 8-1-1978)
4-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 652, 8-1-1978; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GARBAGE AND REFUSE 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Short Title
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Container Requirements; Placement For Collection
4-3-4: Collection Of Garbage
4-3-5: Garbage Collection Charges
4-3-6: Collection Of Tree Cuttings And Limbs
4-3-7: Brush Pickup
4-3-8: Large Accumulations
4-3-9: Dead Animals
4-3-10: Burning Garbage
4-3-11: Dumping
4-3-12: Garbage Dump
4-3-13: Violation And Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 8, Chapter 5 of this Code for rates and charges.
4-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known as the GARBAGE AND TRASH ORDINANCE of the City.
(Ord. 197, 5-2-1956)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   DRY KITCHEN REFUSE: Solids after the liquid or slop has been drained off.
   GARBAGE: Dry kitchen refuse, all meat, vegetable and fruit refuse, small
dead animals and dead fowls from any premises within the City limits.
   PREMISES: Shall be taken to mean business houses, boarding houses, offices,
theaters, hotels, restaurants, cafes, eating houses, tourist camps, apartments,
sanitariums, rooming houses, schools, private residences, vacant lots and all
other places within the City limits where garbage, trash, rubbish or tree limbs
accumulate in ordinary quantities.
   RUBBISH: Tin cans, bottles, glass, scraps of iron, tin, wire or other metals
from any premises within the City limits.
   TRASH: Paper of all kinds, rags, old clothing, paper containers, old rubber,
pieces of wood, boxes, barrels, crates, feathers, weeds, grass.
   TREE LIMBS: Tree trimmings, branches of trees from any premises within the
City limits. (Ord. 197, 5-2-1956; amd. 1994 Code)
4-3-3: CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS; PLACEMENT FOR COLLECTION:
   A.   Containers And Storage: It shall be the duty of every owner, agent,
tenant, lessee, occupant of any residence, house, building, apartment, store or
business establishment of any kind, where persons reside, gather or congregate
or where food is prepared or served, where trash collection accumulates, within
the City, to provide or cause to be provided, to maintain or cause to be
maintained, in good order and repair, a container for the deposit of garbage,
refuse and trash for collection by the City or a licensed third party
contractor contracted by the City for the performance of such function. These
containers may be provided by the City or the licensed third party contractor
in which case the provided container shall be the only type of container used
for the purposes of collection of garbage, trash and refuse within the City,
and it shall be unlawful to use any other container except as provided by the
City or such licensed third party contractor. Such containers shall be kept in
a sanitary condition and closed tightly. The contents of all containers shall
be so protected that the wind cannot blow and scatter the same over the
streets, alleys and premises located within the City.
   B.   Placement For Collection: All residential containers comprising of
ninety five (95) gallon containers or equivalent for residential use as
furnished by the City or licensed third party contractor shall be placed for
collection on a schedule to be established by the City Manager and licensed
third party contractor, from time to time if applicable, and such garbage shall
be placed for such residential purposes inside the curb line of the street
where it is to be collected by the garbage collection vehicles. No garbage,
refuse or trash containers utilized for residential purposes shall be placed in
the alleyways for collections after the effective date hereof. It shall be
unlawful for any person to place any garbage, refuse or trash container for
collection in any other location except as provided for in this Section. For
all commercial-type containers, the placement for collection shall be as
designated by the City Manager or licensed third party contractor.
   C.   Interference With Garbage Or Containers: The interference with garbage
cans, trash or rubbish receptacles or in any way pilfering, scattering contents
or junk, can or container in any alley or street or upon public or private
premises within the City limits is unlawful.
   D.   Hours For Placement And Removal Of Containers On Collection Day: All
garbage, refuse and trash containers for residential purposes must be placed
behind the curb as prescribed by this Section not later than seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. on the day of the scheduled collection and removal of such container
shall not be later than seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on such date of collection.
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a container to remain outside at
the curb after the period as prescribed herein.
   E.   Moving Garbage Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
transport, carry or deliver trash, brush, garbage or refuse from the point of
generation of such material to another location for the purposes of depositing
any such material in a container as required by this Section.
   F.   Dumpster bin containers provided by the City or its solid waste
provider typically for non-residential users such as for commercial,
industrial, or institutional uses; or similar containers for a multi-family
use, shall be entirely buffered with an opaque fence and/or masonry material,
and equipped with gates to entirely visually obscure it from within or without
its premises. Furthermore, this provision shall apply to existing dumpster bin
users, regardless of pre-existing tenure, should there be a health risk to the
public; however, should the dumpster historically be on City ROW, the matter
will be resolved on a case-by-case basis as assessed/determined by the City
Manager’s Office, the operator/owner, the city’s solid waste provider, and/or
other appropriate city departments. Prior to its construction, the owner or
his/her authorized agent will directly confer with the City’s solid waste
provider to sanction its approach, placement, and/or the proposed containment
buffer to assure its proper pick-up.
(Ord. 9-16-97D, 9-16-1997; amd. Ord. 44-09-23, 9-5-2023)
4-3-4: COLLECTION OF GARBAGE 1 :
   A.   Contract For Collection: Trash and garbage shall be collected under a
schedule to be designated by contract of the City with the designated third
party contractor, said schedule to be based upon what is necessary to maintain
proper health and sanitation standards of the City.
   B.   Private Collection: The collection of garbage, trash and rubbish or of
any kind of junk within the City limits is prohibited, except as provided for
by contract with the City. (Ord. 197, 5-2-1956; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-5-3 of this Code for collection rates.
4-3-5: GARBAGE COLLECTION CHARGES:
   A.   Charges Assessed: There shall be charges assessed and collected from
each person within the corporate limits of the City, the sum as set out in the
schedule provided in Section
8-5-3 of this Code.
   B.   Failure To Pay Charges; Disconnection Of Water Service: Any person who
shall fail to pay the charges above set out as herein levied and assessed shall
be subject to the terms of Section
8-5-9 of this Code. (Ord. 197, 5-2-1956; amd. 1994 Code)
4-3-6: COLLECTION OF TREE CUTTINGS AND LIMBS:
Tree cuttings and tree limbs shall be cut into lengths not exceeding six feet
(6') and shall be placed inside the curb line of the street (or near the
pavement’s edge if non-curbed) that fronts the subject property.
(Ord. 570, 9-11-1972; amd. Ord. 49-09-2023, 9-19-2023)
4-3-7: BRUSH PICKUP:
   A.   Service Provided: The City provides brush pickup to its residents for
the purpose of maintaining well-kept land areas.
   B.   Charges 1 : The cost of maintaining these services is continuing to
escalate, it has become imperative that the City attach a brush fee for the
purpose of keeping up the equipment the City uses. This charge will remain in
effect year round. (Ord. 88-10, 10-4-1988; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  8-5-4 of this Code for collection rates.
4-3-8: LARGE ACCUMULATIONS:
   A.   Wholesale Accumulations: The places of wholesale accumulations, such as
wholesale fruit and vegetable houses, storage and other places where the daily
accumulation of kitchen garbage, trash and rubbish is more than the ordinary
quantities, are not included in the service furnished by the city garbage
department and such places are required to remove same to the city garbage
dump, at their own expense, in the manner and by the method directed by the
city manager or other official designated by the governing body of the city.
   B.   Heavy Accumulations: Heavy accumulation such as brick, broken concrete,
lumber, ashes, clinkers, cinders, dirt and plaster, sand or gravel, automobile
frames, dead trees and other bulky, heavy material shall be disposed of at the
expense of the owner or person controlling same under the direction of the city
manager or other official designated by the governing body of the city. (Ord.
197, 5-2-1956)
4-3-9: DEAD ANIMALS:
Heavy dead animals such as cows, horses and mules shall be reported to the city
manager or other official designated by the governing body of the city and the
same shall be disposed of at the expense of the owner or person having same in
charge in the manner and method directed by the city manager or other official
designated by the governing body of the city. (Ord. 197, 5-2-1956)
4-3-10: BURNING GARBAGE:
   A.   Burning Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to burn any garbage or other
organic refuse outside of any building at any time within the city limits.
   B.   Violation And Penalty: Any person who shall violate this section shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   C.   Nonconforming Status: Land that is used as farmland that has been
annexed or is annexed into the corporate limits of the city and whose owner or
occupant, at the time the land is annexed, holds a valid permit from the county
of Hidalgo, Texas, which allows the owner or occupant of the land to burn
leaves, untreated wood, brush and tree limbs as part of any planting or
harvesting activity on the land shall be permitted to continue such use of the
land provided that the owner or occupant obtains a permit from the Alamo fire
department and conducts such burning activities in compliance with any
applicable regulations of the city regulating such activity. This use of the
land shall not be permitted after the land ceases to be used as farmland or if
the burning of leaves, untreated wood, brush and tree limbs is not done as part
of any planting or harvesting activity on the land. (Ord. 06-04-10, 4-6-2010)
4-3-11: DUMPING 1 :
   A.   General Dumping Restrictions; Penalty:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any refuse, trash,
garbage or any tangible items of any type or abandon any physical object on any
real estate belonging to the city or to litter, drop, abandon or place any
refuse, trash, garbage, goods or any tangible item of any type on any real
estate belonging to the city, including, but not limited to, the city dump;
provided, that such items may be dumped in the open pit or hole in the ground
at the city dump which has a sign, "Dump Here Only", if: a) such dumping is
done only between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:
00) P.M. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays or between
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Saturdays, and b)
the person notifies the city employee at the city dump that said person intends
to dump items as above stated and states when and where said person intends to
dump such items.
      2.   Any person violating any provision of this subsection A shall, upon
conviction in the municipal court, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 537, 1969; amd. 1994 Code)
   B.   Organic Refuse; Carcasses; Litter:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to unload, dump or wilfully
leave any of the following within the corporate limits of the city:
         a.   Organic refuse, fruit or vegetables of any kind or character.
         b.   Trash or rubbish of any kind or the carcass of any dead animal.
      2.   Any person violating this subsection B or any of the provisions
thereof, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 67, 1-3-1930; amd. 1994 Code)
   C.   Prohibited Disposal: The disposal of kitchen garbage, trash or rubbish
and that designated under sections
4-3-8 and
4-3-9 of this chapter or any kind of rubbish in any place within the city
limits, except at the sanitary landfill, is prohibited. (Ord. 197, 5-2-1956;
amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 4-3-12 of this chapter.
4-3-12: GARBAGE DUMP 1 :
   A.   Persons Permitted At Dump: Employees of the city, officers directing
operation of the city garbage department and persons delivering garbage or
other rubbish to the city garbage dump are allowed on the garbage dump grounds,
all other persons are prohibited.
   B.   Ownership Of Materials Dumped: All junk and other material of the dump
is the property of the city, and no person is allowed to separate and collect,
carry off or dispose of same except under the direction of the designated
official. (Ord. 197, 5-2-1956)
 
Notes
  1. See subsection 4-3-11A of this chapter for hours of dumping and other
1 dumping provisions and section
  8-5-5 of this code for sanitary landfill rates and regulations.
4-3-13: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 197, 5-2-1956; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Nuisances Declared
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Unwholesome Matter; Stagnant Water; Filth; Carrion
4-4-4: Grass, Weeds And Brush
4-4-5: Enforcement
4-4-6: Violation And Penalties
4-4-7: Bee Eradication Response Initiative
4-4-1: NUISANCES DECLARED:
Each of the following is a public nuisance:
   A.   A condition or place that is a breeding place for flies and bees and
that is in a populous area;
   B.   Spoiled or diseased meats intended for human consumption;
   C.   A restaurant, food market, bakery, other place of business, or vehicle
in which food is prepared, packed, stored, transported, sold, or served to the
public and that is not constantly maintained in a sanitary condition;
   D.   A place, condition, or building controlled or operated by a state or
local government agency that is not maintained in a sanitary condition;
   E.   Sewage, human excreta, wastewater, garbage, or other organic wastes
deposited, stored, discharged, or exposed in such a way as to be a potential
instrument or medium in disease transmission to a person or between persons;
   F.   A vehicle or container that is used to transport garbage, human
excreta, or other organic material and that is defective and allows leakage or
spilling of contents;
   G.   A collection of water in which mosquitoes are breeding in the limits of
a municipality or a collection of water that is a breeding area for Culex
quinquefasciatus mosquitoes that can transmit diseases regardless of the
collection's location other than a location or property where activities
meeting the definition of section 11.002(12)(A), Water Code, occur;
   H.   A condition that may be proven to injuriously affect the public health
and that may directly or indirectly result from the operations of bone boiling
or fat rendering plant, tallow or soap works, or other similar establishment;
   I.   A place or condition harboring rats in a populous area;
   J.   The presence of ectoparasites, including bedbugs, lice, and mites,
suspected to be disease carriers in a place in which sleeping accommodations
are offered to the public;
   K.   The maintenance of an open surface privy or an overflowing septic tank
so that the contents may be accessible to flies;
   L.   An object, place, or condition that is a possible and probable medium
of disease transmission to or between humans. (Ord. 25-10-08, 10-21-2008)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms used herein shall be interpreted as
follows:
   ANY WORDS NOT HEREIN DEFINED: Shall be construed in the context used herein
and by the meanings normally ascribed to such words.
   BRUSH: Scrub vegetation or dense undergrowth.
   CARRION: The dead and putrefying flesh of any animal, fowl or fish.
   FILTH: Any matter in a putrescent state.
   IMPURE, UNWHOLESOME OR UNSANITARY MATTER: Any putrescible or nonputrescible
condition, object or matter which tends, may or could produce injury, death, or
disease to human beings.
   OBJECTIONABLE OR UNSIGHTLY MATTER: Any matter, condition, or object which
would be objectionable or unsightly to a person of ordinary sensitivities.
   REFUSE: A heterogeneous accumulation of worn out, used up, broken, rejected
or worthless material.
   RUBBISH: Trash, debris, rubble, stone, useless fragments of building
materials, and other miscellaneous, useless waste or rejected matter.
   WEEDS: Uncultivated vegetation, including, but not limited to, grasses, of a
of twelve inches (12") or more.
(Ord. 25-10-08, 10-21-2008; amd. Ord. 49-09-2023, 9-19-2023)
4-4-3: UNWHOLESOME MATTER; STAGNANT WATER; FILTH; CARRION:
   A.   Prohibited Conditions Designated; Stagnant Water, Accumulation Of
Carrion, Filth, Etc. 1 :
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person who shall own any lot or other
premises in the city to allow or permit holes or places where water may
accumulate and become stagnant to be or remain on such lot or premises or to
allow or permit the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or to permit
stagnant water to remain thereon.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any lot, building, house,
establishment or premises in the city to allow or permit any carrion, filth,
refuse, rubbish or any other impure or unwholesome matter of any kind to
accumulate or remain thereon.
      3.   A public nuisance is declared whenever grass, weeds, brush, and/or
any other plants that are not cultivated pursuant to the definition of ‘Weeds’
as found in Section
4-4-2  of this Chapter. A public nuisance is also declared whenever rubbish,
refuse and all other objectionable, unsightly and unsanitary matter shall cover
or partly cover the surface of any lot or parcel of real estate. Whenever a
public nuisance is determined to be evident, the City of Alamo will take
procedural steps for its prompt abatement by the person having legal
stewardship on said property, e.g., the property owner, the tenant, authorized
resident, and/or other party having, legal standing. The maintenance boundaries
of lots or parcels of property to promptly abate Public Nuisances shall include
the following criteria:
         a.   The legal boundaries of the recorded Lot(s); parcels(s) or tract
(s) of real estate property;
         b.   The area that extends beyond the recorded property lines up to
the street curb and/or edge of pavement; (Note: ‘Street’ as used herein shall
include a public street or a private street);
         c.   The area that extends beyond the recorded property lines up to
the centerline of abutting public alleys; (Note: ‘Public’ means recorded public
alleys, prescriptive public alleys, or apparent publicly used alleys, in
effect);
         d.   If there is any area that may be a unique hybrid of the above 3
criterions or of similar circumstances where the stewardship to maintain it is
questioned, such shall be presented to the City Manager for assessment and
final determination. There is no appeal from the City Manager’s decision on the
matter.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any lot or
premises in the city to allow or permit the existence of any type tree on such
lot when such tree is dead or damaged and such condition poses a serious threat
to property or life on such lot or an adjacent lot or an adjacent public right
of way, and such condition is hereby declared to be a nuisance in the city.
(Ord. 25-10-08, 10-21-2008; amd. 117-8-2024, 8-20-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code §§ 342.001, 342.003.
4-4-4: GRASS, WEEDS AND BRUSH:
   A.   Maximum Height:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and it is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance for any person, including the owner, tenant, or for a representative
of any nonresident owner or tenant of any lot or parcel of real estate, or any
other premises or parts thereof, whether vacant or occupied within the city, to
allow grass, weeds or brush of any description to grow or flourish thereon and
sidewalks abutting any of such premises without having such grass, weeds or
brush cut and kept short at all times to a height not greater than fifteen
inches (15") from the surface of the ground.
   B.   Duty To Cut And Remove:
      1.   It shall be the primary duty of the owner or tenant of premises
within the city to cut and remove all weeds as often as may be necessary to
comply with the provisions of this code. In any prosecution for a violation of
this chapter, the owner shall not be permitted to plead or show evidence that
the occupant or tenant of property is the person against whom the charges
should be brought.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person, as the owner, tenant or agent
of any owner or tenant of premises within the city, to leave any unsightly
piles or windrows of debris or weeds, grass or brush which could serve as
habitat for rodents or other vectors of disease on such premises after such
weeds, grass or brush have been cut, and it shall be the duty of such owner,
tenant or agent to remove or prepare for removal by city crews, if applicable,
such weeds, grass or brush and to ensure that same is cut from premises to
prevent unsanitary conditions from occurring on such premises.
      3.   Any grass, weeds or brush that is cut shall be removed from the
premises promptly and be disposed of in an appropriate manner. (Ord. 25-10-08,
10-21-2008)
4-4-5: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Enforcement Of Provisions:
      1.   Whenever, in the opinion of the city inspector or code enforcement
officer, any condition which constitutes a violation of section
4-4-3 or
4-4-4 of this chapter exists on any parcel or property in the city and such
condition causes an immediate threat to the physical well being of any person
or adjacent property, in addition to constituting a public nuisance, the city
inspector or code enforcement officer is hereby authorized to abate such
nuisance utilizing city personnel or private contractors. The cost of abating
such nuisance shall (include, but not be limited to, labor, equipment,
disposal, mileage, etc., of which all rates shall be established by the board
of commissioners) be charged against the property owner or other person
responsible. The city shall have the right to file a lien for such charges upon
following the procedures for city abatement and the charging of such costs as
provided for after notification as set out in subsection 4-4-6D of this
chapter, if such procedures are possible considering the immediate threat to
life or property, of the nuisance to be abated 1 .
   B.   Notice To Property Owner:
      1.   Whenever the existence of any nuisance defined in this chapter on
any lot or parcel of real estate situated within the city shall come to the
knowledge of the city inspector or code enforcement officer, it shall be his
duty to forthwith cause a written notice identifying such property to be issued
to the person owning such parcel of real estate. For the purpose of complying
with this section, it shall be sufficient if the city inspector or code
enforcement officer places in the United States mail a registered card or
letter addressed to the owner at his last known address. The city inspector or
code enforcement officer may rely on the real property ownership records of the
county appraisal district in determining the ownership of any property on which
a violation exists for the purpose of enforcement and notice. Such notice shall
be addressed to such person at his post office address or may be served in
person. Notice is considered delivered even if the U.S. postal service returns
the notice as "refused" or "unclaimed" 2 .
If such registered card or letter is returned as "refused" or "unclaimed" or if
personal service has not been had or if the owner's address is not known, then
notice shall be published at least once in the city's official newspaper or by
posting the notice on or near the front door of each building on the property
to which the violation relates; or by posting the notice on a placard attached
to a stake driven into the ground on the property to which the violation
relates, if the property contains no buildings.
Such notice should require the abatement of such nuisance by mowing and
removing such weeds, brush, rubbish or other objectionable, unsightly or
unsanitary matter of whatever nature, as the case may be, within seven (7) days
from the date of service of such notice. Such notice shall further state that
in default of the performance of the above condition, the city may, at once,
cause such abatement to be done and charge the costs and expense incurred in
doing or having such work done or improvements at the expense of the city, then
such expense shall be assessed as a lien on such real estate upon which such
expense was incurred. Failure to comply with such notice by any owner shall
render such person guilty of a misdemeanor.
      2.   The aforementioned notice may be sent by certified mail, in which
case such notice shall inform the owner that if the owner commits another
violation of the same kind or nature as provided herein, which violation occurs
on or before the first anniversary day from the date of such notice, the city
may, without further notice, correct the violation at the owner's expense and
assess the expense against the owner 3 .
   C.   Abatement By City Generally 4 :
      1.   If the owner of any premises upon which weeds, grass, or brush are
found growing or filth, trash, rubbish and debris are found in violation of
this chapter cannot be found or is a nonresident, and if a person who has been
given the notice provided for by this chapter shall fail to comply with such
notice, it shall be the duty of the city inspector or code enforcement officer
to cause the weeds, grass, brush, rubbish, filth, trash, debris or other
unsanitary matter or condition constituting a nuisance to be promptly and
similarly abated, in a reasonable or prudent manner.
      2.   Any weeds, grass, brush, rubbish or other unsanitary matter abated
by the city shall become the property of the city to be removed or disposed of
in the manner prescribed by the city manager.
   D.   Abatement Of Weeds Higher Than Forty Eight Inches:
      1.   The city may abate, without notice, weeds that have grown higher
than forty eight inches (48") and that are "an immediate danger to the health,
life or safety of any person" 5 .
      2.   The city may assess expenses and impose a lien against the property
for abatement without notice 6 .
      3.   However, the city must give the owner notice of the abatement within
seven (7) days of the date of the abatement, in the same manner as a notice of
violation 7 .
The notice must also include identification of the property, description of the
ordinance violation, a statement that the city abated the weeds, and an
explanation of the owner's right to request an administrative hearing on the
abatement 8 .
If the owner files a written request for a hearing within thirty (30) days of
the date of the abatement of the weeds, the city must conduct the hearing
within twenty (20) days of the date the request was filed 9 .
   E.   Expenses; Method Of Computation 10 :
      1.   The community planning and development department shall charge all
necessary expenses in connection with abatement of a nuisance under this
chapter, including, but not limited to, work done and improvements made in
abating such nuisance, to the owner of such premises. The city shall be
entitled to recover all reasonable costs incurred in mailing, inspecting,
locating the owner, issuing notice including publishing notice to the owner/
occupant of a weedy lot, or reinspecting such premises and all other reasonable
costs incurred in abating such nuisance. Such expenses shall be certified by
the community planning and development department and shall prepare an invoice
for the total amount, which will include actual labor computed in one hour
increments at a rate established by the board of commissioners.
   F.   Liability Disclaimer:
      1.   The city shall be held harmless from any and all liability from any
claims resulting from the abatement or the failure to abate a nuisance on any
property, including, but not limited to, destruction of shrubs, flowers, brush
and small trees of any nature. The city has no duty nor does this chapter
impose any duty on the city inspector or any other city employee to abate any
nuisance existing on any private property. The provisions of this chapter
neither change nor modify the responsibility of the owner or occupant of any
premises in the city to keep the premises in a reasonably safe condition so as
not to cause injury to any third party either on the property or adjacent to
the property as provided for in the tort laws of the state. The adoption of
this chapter does not, in any manner, change the responsibility under the tort
law nor does it create a cause of action for liability not heretofore existing
under the tort or statutory laws of the state. A decision of the city to abate
a nuisance is solely discretionary and any decision to abate a nuisance or not
abate a nuisance shall not create any liability on the city in any manner to
any party.
   G.   Notice Of Work Done; Preparing And Mailing Of Notices:
      1.   Whenever any work is done or improvements made by the city under the
provisions of this chapter, the city shall notify the property owner of the
work done and the cost thereof, such notice to be in writing to the last known
post office address of the owner. Such costs shall be certified by the
community planning and development department and shall prepare an invoice in
the amount of the total costs of removing such weeds, grass, brush, rubbish or
other unsanitary matter. The account shall become due and payable within
fifteen (15) calendar days after notice is given.
   H.   Penalty For Nonpayment Of Invoice:
      1.   If an invoice served under the terms of this chapter is not paid
within fifteen (15) calendar days of notice, then no services provided by the
city's owned and controlled utilities shall be rendered to the property.
      2.   Nothing contained in this section nor any action taken by the city
pursuant to this section shall relieve any person from any penalty which may be
imposed in a prosecution of this chapter. (Ord. 25-10-08, 10-21-2008)
 
Notes
1  1. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.004.
2  1. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.006(c).
3  2. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.006.
4  3. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.006.
5  1. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.008(a).
6  2. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.008(f).
7  3. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.008(b).
8  4. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.008(c).
9  5. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code §§ 342.008(d), (e).
10 6. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.007.
4-4-6: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation And Penalties:
      1.   Any owner, whether a natural person or a corporation, or any agent,
representative or employee of such owner, including any person having ownership
of any premises or lot or parcel of real estate or any part thereof, or any
interest therein, or improvements thereon, situated within the limits of the
city, on which there exists any nuisance as defined in this chapter, who shall
allow or permit any such nuisance to be created or to remain and continue if
created and established or who shall fail, refuse or neglect to remove or abate
such nuisance by one of the methods provided in this chapter or otherwise
regulating such premises, so as to prevent such nuisance, within seven (7) days
from the date of service of notice thereof as provided for in this chapter,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in any sum not exceeding two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), and each day
during which such failure, refusal or neglect shall continue to exist shall
constitute a separate offense.
      2.   Any owner, or agent of any owner, violating any terms of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine as provided in subsection A1 of this
section. Each and every day that the premises remain in violation of the terms
of this chapter shall constitute a different and separate offense. If the owner
of any lot, lots or premises under the provisions of this section shall be a
corporation and shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, the
president, vice president, secretary or treasurer of such corporation or any
manager, agent, or employees of such corporation shall be also severally liable
for the penalties provided for a violation of this code.
   B.   Collection And Disposition Of Money Under Chapter:
      1.   The city finance department shall be responsible for collecting all
monies due for abating nuisances under this chapter.
      2.   Any payment or collection made under the terms of this chapter shall
be received by and receipted for by the director of finance, or one of his duly
authorized agents. Such sums of monies so received by the director of finance
shall be paid into the general fund of the city. Such sums of money, receipts
therefor, and the necessary records in connection therewith shall be handled,
prepared and maintained as a permanent record, all in the form and manner
prescribed by the director of finance.
   C.   Procedures For Collection Of Money Due City 1 :
      1.   Whenever the city shall have performed the work and paid all
necessary expenses in connection therewith as provided in this chapter, and the
city shall have charges accrued against such property for a period of thirty
(30) days or more from the first billing, the director of finance, or his duly
authorized agent, shall notify the community planning and development
department. The community planning and development department shall immediately
prepare and file for record in the office of the county clerk an itemized
statement of all the work performed and all costs and expenses incurred and
paid by the city in connection therewith in the form of an affidavit duly sworn
to, which affidavit or duly certified copy thereof, after having been recorded
shall be prima facie proof of the work done and performed and the amounts paid
therefor. Such affidavit, among other things and provisions, shall contain the
following:
         a.   Name and address of owner, occupant or agent of owner of
property, if known and if unknown, recite the fact.
         b.   Description of property sufficient to identify the property, and
where property has been subdivided, a description by lot and block number of
any particular subdivision shall be sufficient.
         c.   Statement of the particular violation of this chapter.
         d.   Statement including date that notice of violation was mailed or
published to owner as to failure to comply therewith.
         e.   Itemized statement of the work done and date such work was
performed, together with costs thereof opposite each item.
         f.   Statement of payments made by the city, the date of such payment,
and to whom made if contracted out to private commercial enterprises.
         g.   Statement that such affidavit is made for the purpose of fixing a
lien upon the property therein described, in accordance with provisions of
Vernon's Texas Code Annotated, Health And Safety Code 342.001 et seq., with up
to the maximum percent interest allowed by law on the aggregate amount to be
paid to the city.
      2.   The board of commissioners hereby finds and declares that the
general legal work by the city in conjunction with the filing of the lien and
other associated necessary incidents of such filing requires a minimum charge
for each lien that is assessed per lot, tract or parcel of real estate. The
minimum charge for such shall be set by the board of commissioners.
      3.   The city manager or his designated authorized agent is hereby
authorized to execute any lien to be filed with the county clerk for the
imposition of the lien on the property for which a nuisance was abated and the
costs assessed by the city as provided for in this chapter.
   D.   Foreclosing Lien 2 :
      1.   Upon the filing of the statements and affidavits provided for, the
city shall have a lien for the repayment of the aggregate amount so expended
and paid as therein set forth, with up to the maximum percent interest allowed
by law thereon from the date of payment or incurrence of cost thereof by the
city, upon the property described in such affidavit, and which lien shall have
precedence over all other liens and encumbrances except tax liens and liens for
street improvements; and for any such expenditures and interest aforesaid, suit
may be instituted, and recovery had, and such lien foreclosed by the city in
the manner provided for by law.
   E.   Authority To Execute And Release Liens:
      1.   The city manager or his designated authorized agent is hereby
authorized to execute release of liens on behalf of the city of all liens
created under the provisions of this chapter. The city manager or his
designated authorized agent shall have no right to execute such releases until
he has satisfied himself that the debt or portion thereof secured by the lien
and for which a release is requested has been paid in full to the city, and
such lien shall be released only insofar as it affects the property for which
the debt secured thereby has been paid in full. (Ord. 25-10-08, 10-21-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.007.
2 1. V.T.C.A., Health And Safety Code § 342.007(e).
4-4-7: BEE ERADICATION RESPONSE INITIATIVE:
   A.   The Bee Eradication Response
      1.   Initiative (BERI) is formulated to maximize protective services,
minimize/eliminate confusion on expected roles and service processes, and to
provide an organized methodology to quickly reconcile neighborhoods to a 'safe
zone' status reflecting less anxiety regarding a (swarming) bee hazard or
potential bee hazard. The two (2) basic response-situations that Alamo has
historically faced on private properties are classified as:
         a.   Non-emergency responses; and
         b.   Emergency responses.
      2.   These initiatives, which may be amended form time to time to adjust
to varying bee infestations, patterns, or circumstances will identify the
process to follow on these two (2) response-situations.
      3.   Non-emergency response-situation: Bees are witnessed to be present
but are deemed by a city official to not be causing an immediate health or
safety risk to the occupants of the property or surrounding properties; if not
resolved, the situation may escalate to an imminent health and safety threat.
      4.   Emergency response: The Fire Department, the Code Enforcement
Department, the Public Works Department, and/or the Police Department have
determined that bees are easily antagonized, are frequently swarming, and/or
have attacked people without provocation; such attacks are deemed an immediate
health hazard or life-threatening to the general public.
   B.   Protocol for Non-emergency response-situation:
      1.   When it has been determined that a NON-emergency response situation
is clearly evident, the Code Enforcement Officer shall issue a Notice to the
property owner of record and/or tenant to rid the bees from his/her property
within ten (10) calendar days. The 'Notice' may be hand-delivered inducing a
more prompt response; or if circumstances reflect hand-delivery not being
feasible, then said 'Notice' shall be mailed via certified mail service. In the
follow-up visit, if the bees have been exterminated or removed as an imminent
threat, then the Code Enforcement Officer may abort, or 'dismiss', the matter
and it shall be 'closed.'
      2.   On the other hand, if the City of Alamo determines that the owner,
or his/her agent, have neglected the original 'Notice', then 'public nuisance'
charges will be processed in Municipal Court, in substantial compliance to the
intent expressed in Sections
4-4-5 (A) and Section
4-4-5 (B). It is declared that at the Municipal Court's examination, if the bee
presence matter has been confirmed by the city as 'resolved', then the matter
may then be 'dismissed' with adjudicatory administrative fees (likely) being
imposed. If at the Municipal Court hearing, the non-emergency bee threat is
still existing, then the Municipal Court Judge may issue a court order to have
the City and/or their engaged agents, enter the premises and do what is
reasonable but necessary to exterminate the bees. The fees to perform such city
services shall be computed and collected pursuant to Sec.
4-4-5 (B) of Alamo's Code of Ordinances.
   C.   Protocol for Emergency response: when it has been determined that the
bee presence is a dangerous situation and a real threat to area residents, the
Code Enforcement Officer or a Fire Department official shall make an immediate
good faith effort to contact the legal owner of record to alert him/her of the
threat existing on their private property, i.e., a volatile public nuisance. If
contact is made and the owner's response to remove the bee threat seems to be
time-consuming and not as prompt as the situation warrants, then Staff will
request that a 'Release' be signed/dated indicating that the City of Alamo has
been given the latitude to proceed in ridding the public threat. The City will
be held harmless (indemnified) if their emergency services damage any private
property, and that a calculated service fee will be forthcoming to be paid; and
if not paid, then a lien shall be filed against the property; in substantial
compliance to Sec.
4-4-5 (B).
      1.   If the owner is not available or seems that he/she cannot be
contacted but the magnitude of the hive and associated bee threat may likely
escalate, then the Fire Department is hereby instructed by this Code to
activate the necessary safety and protective measures to eradicate the bees by
employing the Standing Court Order SCO) that the Municipal Court Judge will
have issued for such an emergency response where the lives of citizens are at
risk. If no SCO is evident, a comparably effective Executive Order from the
City Manager's Office, may also be used for such extreme circumstances.
      2.   In addition to the above, standard protocol will also include the
following initiatives:
         a.   The Fire Department shall be called upon to immediately respond
and undertake emergency measures to terminate the bee hive wherever it may be
located.
         b.   The Fire Department shall use their training to undertake
precautions to quarantine residents within their homes plus impose other
reasonable measures to safeguard (or temporarily block) the neighborhood.
         c.   Once the Fire Department determines that the area residents have
been substantially quarantined and safeguarded, the Fire Department, or the
City's engaged exterminator, shall eradicate the bees, i.e., public safety
threat is removed.
         d.   It is understood that for these emergency response bee
situations, the Municipal Court shall issue a Standing Court Order (SCO) for
the City and/or its agents to enter the premises in order to exterminate the
swarming bee threat. If the Judge is un-available or has not issued a SCO and
may be delayed in doing so, then it is declared that an Executive Order from
the City Managers' Office shall have the same effect as consent to enter the
premises due to the threat to the general public.
   D.   It is declared that 'Violations and Penalties' of the Bee Eradication
Response Initiative (BERI) shall be pursuant to the intent and terms expressed
in Section
4-4-6 of the City's Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 47-09-21, 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 5
NOISE CONTROL
SECTION:
4-5-1: Loud or Unusual Noises Prohibited
4-5-2: Noise Standards
4-5-3: Exemptions from Provisions
4-5-4: Special Permit
4-5-5: Violation and Penalties
4-5-1: LOUD OR UNUSUAL NOISES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and prohibited by this Chapter for any person or persons,
business operator/manager, or similar other to make, continue, allow to
continue or cause to be made any excessive or unnecessary or unusually loud
noise; or any noise which either continuously annoys, disturbs, injures and/or
unreasonably infringes the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others
within the limits of the City; especially as such affects nearby residential
areas. (Ord. 3-3-92, 3-5-1992, eff. 3-3-1992; amd. Ord. 35-07-23, 7-11-2023)
4-5-2: NOISE STANDARDS:
The following acts, among similar others, are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this Chapter, but said enumeration shall
not be deemed to be all-inclusive, namely:
   A.   Horns, Signaling Devices: The sounding of any horn or signaling device
on any automobile, motorcycle, streetcar or other vehicle on any public or
private place in the City, except as a danger warning; the creation by means of
any such signaling device of any unreasonably loud or harsh sound and the
sounding of any such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
The use of any signaling or horn device, except one operated by hand or
electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine
electricity; the use of any horn, whistle or other device operated by engine
exhaust, and the use of any such signaling device when traffic is for any
reason held up.
   B.   Sound Systems: The using, operating or permitting to be played/operated
of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, compact disc player, electronic
or digital sound system, any internet-assisted sound system, phonograph or any
other device for the producing or reproducing of sound (music or otherwise) in
such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and reasonable comfort of the
neighboring inhabitants of ordinary sensibilities, especially in residential
areas; or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient
hearing for the persons who are voluntary listeners in the room, assembly area,
restaurant, vehicle or other such places in which such device is operated. The
phrase 'permitting to be played/operated' shall include, but is not limited to
a person or persons causing the device to function or keeping it in (violative)
operation; or a person or persons supervising or managing other persons who
cause the device to function in violation to these noise regulations; or a
person or persons who, after being alerted by local authorities or others to
lower the volume due to an apparent violation and disruption to others, cause
the same or another device to be re-activated in intentional breach of these
noise regulations. The operation of any such system described herein, between
the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. in such
a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of one-hundred feet (100') from
the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this Section. This provision shall also be
applicable and binding to and between all residentially used properties,
whether they adjoin or not.
   C.   Loud Speakers and Amplifiers for Advertising: The using, operating or
permitting to be played of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, compact
disc player, electronic or digital sound system, any internet-assisted sound
system, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or any other device for the
producing or reproducing of sound which is cast upon the public and/or private
streets for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention
of the public to any building or structure.
   D.   Yelling, Shouting: Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, singing or
some other type of (loud) vocal exertion on public and/or private streets,
sidewalks, or other public or semi-public places, particularly between the
hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at any
time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or reasonable repose
of persons of ordinary sensibilities in any office or in any dwelling, hotel or
other type of residence or any persons in the vicinity. This prohibition
includes the general raucous shouting and yelling of peddlers and vendors which
may disturb the peace and quiet repose of area residents.
   E.   Non-muffled Engines: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motorcycle
or motor vehicle, except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
   F.   Defect in Vehicle or Load: The use of any automobile, motorcycle or
vehicle so out of repair, so loaded/customized in such a manner as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or vibrating that annoys or
disturbs the quiet, comfort or reasonable repose of persons of ordinary
sensibilities in residency settings.
   G.   Loading, Unloading and Flattening Boxes: The creation of a loud and
excessive noise in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle; or
the opening and flattening of bales, boxes, crates and/or containers.
   H.   Construction, Repairing or Demolition of Buildings: The construction
(including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building other
than between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
in residential zoning districts. Commercial and industrial zones where no
residentially used properties adjoin said commercial/industrial site may
commence at 3:00 A.M. and end at 7:00 p.m. or shortly thereafter. NOTE: should
there be unique land use and/or weather conditions coupled with a legitimate
sense of urgency, the Planning Director may deviate from these time constraints
but only if there is a justified case of urgent necessity in the interest of
public health and safety.
   I.   Schools, Churches and Hospitals: The creation of any excessive noise on
any property or street or paved driveway or parking lot adjacent to any school,
institution of learning, church, any hospital or bona fide medical service
center which unreasonably interferes with the workings of such institutions or
which disturbs or unduly annoys patients in the hospital or medical facility.
   J.   Musical Instruments: The use of any drum or any type of musical
instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation of
noise/music to any performance, show or sale. This prohibition does not include
the sound generated from a school's jamboree, half-time performances at a
school's sporting events, or other similar events by similar entities.
   K.   Pile Drivers, Hammers: The operation between the hours of ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and seven (7:00) o'clock A.M. of any pile driver, steam shovel,
pneumatic hammer, derrick, steam or electric hoist or other appliance operated
by compressed air, the continuous use which generates a loud noise that annoys
or disturbs the reasonable repose of persons of ordinary sensibilities.
   L.   Blowers: Between the hours of 10 P.M. and 7 A.M., the operation of any
noise-creating blower or power fan or any internal combustion engine, the
operation which generates loud noise due to the explosion of operating gases or
fluids, unless the noise from such blower or fan is significantly muffled and
such engine is equipped with a reliable muffler device sufficient to deaden
such noise and does not annoy or disturb the reasonable comfort and repose of
nearby residents with ordinary sensibilities.
   M.   Funeral Home and Cemetery Services: The creation of any excessive and
continuous noise from any property, street, sidewalk, or place that may reflect
irreverence to persons that are attending sensitive memorial or religious
services in respect to the loss of human life while at a funeral home or
cemetery. (Ord. 3-3-92, 3-5-1992, eff. 3-3-1992; amd. Ord. 35-07-23, 7-11-2023)
4-5-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
The following uses and activities shall be exempt from noise level regulations:
   A.   Noises of safety signals, warning devices and emergency pressure relief
valves.
   B.   Noises resulting from any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding
to an emergency call or acting in time of emergency.
   C.   Noise from public or private vehicles or equipment resulting from
emergency work made necessary to restore property to a safe condition following
a public calamity or work required to protect persons or property from an
imminent exposure to danger.
   D.   Any other noise or sound resulting from activities of a temporary
duration permitted by Federal, State and/or Local law and for which permission
has been granted by the City in accordance with Section
4-5-2 (H) of this Chapter.
   E.   Any aircraft operated in conformity with or pursuant to Federal law,
Federal air regulations and air traffic control instruction used pursuant to
and within the duly adopted Federal air regulations.
   F.   Any sound or noise generated by railway trains or similar railroad
locomotives.
   G.   Any needful noise from a horn or other warning device may be
legitimately used and shall be exempted from being a violation of these
regulations should a bona fide dangerous situation be discerned or suspected.
   H.   All sounds produced by bells or chimes from any church.
   I.   Any incidental noise from parade spectators and participants in the
parade route; or similar outdoor memorial or celebration services conducted by
city organizations or other legitimate groups. (Ord. 3-3-92, 3-5-1992, eff. 3-
3-1992; amd. Ord. 35-07-23, 7-11-2023)
4-5-4: SPECIAL PERMIT:
   A.   Except for the provision of Section
4-5-2 (H) as it relates to special construction activity, applications for a
permit for relief from the noise level designated in this Chapter on the basis
of undue hardship may be made to the City Manager or his duly authorized
representative. An application seeking relief shall include the following:
      1.   Name, address, cell phone number(s) of the applicant and the
responsible person in charge of the activity;
      2.   The nature and specific location of the noise source;
      3.   The specific time during which the noise will be generated (start-
end), and the expected level of noise that will occur;
      4.   The reason for the application which may be a needful hardship,
specific nature of the hardship, and what will be the expected result if the
special permit is not awarded;
      5.   A description of noise control measures to be taken in order to
minimize/muffle the noise impact, and who will be specifically responsible
(name/cell #) for undertaking said measures; and,
      6.   Specifically agreeing and understanding that if they (the applicant
or his/her agent) do not comply with the terms of conditional approval and/or
there was an issue of discrepancy of the applicants' proposal that was not
accurately described/conveyed to the City of Alamo, then the special permit may
be immediately revoked and the activity must cease; thus subjecting the
applicant's proposal to the full measure of the city's noise regulations.
   B.   Except for the provision of Section
4-5-2 (H) as it relates to special construction activity, applications for a
permit for relief from the noise level designated in this Chapter on the basis
of undue hardship may be made to the City Manager or his duly authorized
representative. An application seeking relief shall file a Special Noise Permit
application whose filing fee is established at $50. After careful review, if
the application is approved, the City of Alamo shall levy a non-refundable
Special Noise Permit fee of $30. The application’s criteria to be vetted shall
include the following:
      1.   Name, address, cell phone number(s) of the applicant and the
responsible person in charge of the activity;
      2.   The nature and specific location of the noise source;
      3.   The specific time during which the noise will be generated (start-
end), and the expected level of noise that will occur;
      4.   The reason for the application which may be a needful hardship,
specific nature of the hardship, and what will be the expected result if the
special permit is not awarded;
      5.   A description of noise control measures to be taken in order to
minimize/muffle the noise impact, and who will be specifically responsible
(name/cell #) for undertaking said measures; and
      6.   Specifically agreeing and understanding that if they (the applicant
or his/her agent) do not comply with the terms of conditional approval and/or
there was an issue of discrepancy of the applicants’ proposal that was not
accurately described/conveyed to the City of Alamo, then the special permit may
be immediately revoked and the activity must cease; thus, subjecting the
applicant’s proposal to the full measure of the city’s noise regulations. (Ord.
3-3-92, 3-5-1992, eff. 3-3-1992; amd. Ord. 35-07-23, 7-11-2023; Ord. 143-11-24,
11-6-2024)
4-5-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code of Ordinances. Each day such violation is committed or
permitted to continue, shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such hereunder.
   B.   As an additional remedy to secure compliance, the operation or
maintenance of any device, instrument, vehicle or machinery in violation of any
provision hereof may be enjoined by a court of competent jurisdiction upon
petition filed by the City Attorney upon the official direction of the City
Commissioners.
   C.   The Alamo Police Department shall be the lead department to enforce the
provisions and regulations of this Noise Code; though other city departments
may be assigned to assist, though to a more limited degree. (Ord. 3-3-92, 3-5-
1992, eff. 3-3-1992; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 35-07-23, 7-11-2023)
CHAPTER 6
SMOKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-6-1: Definitions
4-6-2: Application Of Chapter To City-Owned Facilities
4-6-3: Prohibition Of Smoking In Public Places
4-6-4: Prohibition Of Smoking In Places Of Employment
4-6-5: Distribution, Display And Sale Of Tobacco Products, And Cigarette
Machines
4-6-6: Prohibition Of Smoking In Outdoor Areas
4-6-7: Areas Where Smoking Not Regulated
4-6-8: Persons Under Age Of Eighteen Years In Smoking Area
4-6-9: Declaration Of Establishment As Nonsmoking
4-6-10: Posting Of Signs
4-6-11: Retaliation Prohibited
4-6-12: Enforcement
4-6-13: Violations And Penalties
4-6-14: Additional Fees For Restaurants
4-6-15: Other Applicable Laws
4-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, whenever used in this chapter, shall be
construed as defined in this section:
   BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages
for consumption by guests on the premises and in which the serving of food is
only incidental to the consumption of those beverages, including but not
limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail lounges, and cabarets.
   BUSINESS: A sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation, or
other business entity formed for profit-making purposes, including retail
establishments where goods or services are sold as well as professional
corporations and other entities where legal, medical, dental, engineering,
architectural, or other professional services are delivered.
   CIGARETTE VENDING MACHINE: Any self-service device which, upon insertion of
coin(s), paper currency, token(s), card(s) or key(s) or any other item(s)
dispenses one (1) or more cigarettes, as defined above, provided that the term
shall neither be deemed to include any machine that is in storage, in transit
or otherwise not set up for use and operation nor be deemed to include any
machine that is situated on a train, bus or other public conveyance.
   COMEDY CLUB: An establishment that is primarily used for live comedic
entertainment.
   EMPLOYEE: A person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
direct or indirect monetary wages or profit, and a person who volunteers his or
her services for a non- profit entity.
   EMPLOYER: A person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including a municipal corporation, trust, or non- profit entity that employs
the services of one (1) or more individual persons.
   ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded on at
least two (2) sides by walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed. A
wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other physical barrier,
whether temporary or permanent and whether or not containing openings of any
kind.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY: An office or institution providing care or treatment
of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other medical,
physiological, or psychological conditions, including but not limited to,
hospitals, rehabilitation hospitals or other clinics, including weight control
clinics, nursing homes, homes for the aging or chronically ill, laboratories,
and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists, physicians,
dentists, and all specialists within these professions. This definition shall
include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms, semiprivate rooms, and
wards within health care facilities.
   PARK: Neighborhood/community/large urban/natural areas and greenways/sports
complex parks that are the basic unit of a park system and are recreational and
social centers for those living in the nearby service area or from several
neighborhoods and possibly may serve a broader community-based recreation need.
Parks include areas that preserve unique landscapes and open spaces and include
features that emphasize harmony with the natural environment. Parks include
areas that accommodate group activities and recreational facilities,
consolidated programmed athletic fields, and their associated facilities.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: An area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees normally frequent during the course of employment,
including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms,
conference rooms, meeting rooms, classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways, and
vehicles. A private residence is not a "place of employment" unless it is used
as a child care, adult day care, or health care facility.
   PRIVATE CLUB: An organization, whether incorporated or not, which:
   A.   Is the owner, lessee, or occupant of a building or portion thereof used
exclusively for club purposes at all times;
   B.   Is operated solely for a fraternal purpose but not for pecuniary gain;
   C.   Only sells alcoholic beverages incidental to its operation;
   D.   Conducts its affairs and management through a board of directors,
executive committee, or similar body chosen by the members at an annual
meeting;
   E.   Has established bylaws or a constitution to govern its activities; and
   F.   Has been granted an exemption from the payment of Federal Income Tax as
a club under 26 USC section 501.
   PUBLIC PLACE: An enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which
the public is permitted, including but not limited to, banks, bars, bingo
facilities, educational facilities, gaming facilities, health care facilities,
hotels and motels, laundromats, public transportation facilities, reception
areas, restaurants, retail food production and marketing establishments, retail
service establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters,
and waiting rooms. A private residence is not a "public place" unless it is
used as a child care, adult day care, or health care facility.
   RESTAURANT: An eating establishment, including but not limited to, coffee
shops, cafeterias, sandwich stands, and private and public school cafeterias,
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, or employees, as
well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food is prepared on the
premises for serving elsewhere. The term "restaurant" shall include a bar area
within the restaurant.
   RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: A retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products, smoking implements, or smoking accessories for on-premises
consumption and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental, which
shall include but not be limited to hookah lounges, cigar bars and humidors. In
this definition, "primarily" means that the sale of tobacco products, smoking
implements or smoking accessories shall be at least sixty five percent (65%) of
the total sales revenues.
   SHOPPING MALL: An enclosed public walkway or hall area that serves to
connect retail or professional establishments.
   SMOKE: The gases, particles or vapors released into the air as a result of
combustion, electrical ignition or vaporization, including from an electronic
smoking device, when the purpose of the combustion, electrical ignition or
vaporization is human inhalation of the gases, particles or vapors. Smoke does
not mean the combustion of material solely for olfactory purposes that does not
contain any tobacco or nicotine.
   SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, including electronic cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or
heated tobacco, nicotine or plant product intended for inhalation, in any
manner or in any form, including vaping.
   SPORTS ARENA: Sports pavilions, stadiums, gymnasiums, health spas, boxing
arenas, swimming pools, roller and ice rinks, bowling alleys, and other similar
places where members of the general public assemble to engage in physical
exercise, participate in athletic competition, or witness sports or other
events. (Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-2: APPLICATION OF CHAPTER TO CITY-OWNED FACILITIES:
All enclosed facilities, including buildings and vehicles owned, leased, or
operated by the City, shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-3: PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places within the
City, including but not limited to, the following places:
      1.   Aquariums, galleries, libraries, and museums;
      2.   Areas available to and customarily used by the general public in
businesses and non-profit entities patronized by the public, including but not
limited to, professional offices, banks, laundromats, hotels, and motels;
      3.   Bars;
      4.   Billiard halls;
      5.   Bingo facilities;
      6.   Comedy clubs;
      7.   Convention/Civic Center facilities;
      8.   Elevators;
      9.   Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage,
drama, lecture, musical recital, or other similar performance;
      10.   Gaming facilities;
      11.   Health care facilities;
      12.   Childcare and adult day care facilities;
      13.   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
      14.   Polling places;
      15.   Public transportation facilities, including buses and taxicabs, and
ticket, boarding, and waiting areas of public transit depots;
      16.   Restaurants;
      17.   Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways, and other common-use
areas;
      18.   Retail stores;
      19.   Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including
school buildings, under the control of an agency, board, commission, committee
or council of the City or a political subdivision of the State when a public
meeting is in progress, to the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction
of the City;
      20.   Shopping malls; and
      21.   Sports arenas, including enclosed areas in outdoor arenas. (Ord.
15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-4: PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT:
   A.   Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within places of
employment. This includes common work areas, auditoriums, classrooms,
conference and meeting rooms, elevators, hallways, medical facilities,
cafeterias, employee lounges, stairs, restrooms, and all other enclosed areas.
   B.   This prohibition on smoking shall be communicated by employers to all
existing employees by effective date of this chapter, and to all prospective
employees upon their application for employment. (Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-5: DISTRIBUTION, DISPLAY AND SALE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS, AND CIGARETTE
MACHINES:
   A.   Tobacco Products: Distribution, display, and sale of smoking tobacco
products or smoking paraphernalia on any public right-of-way, City park or any
City-owned building or facility is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Cigarette Vending Machines:
      1.   Unlawful: Subject to the defenses provided in subsection B2 of this
section, it shall be unlawful for any business owner, manager and employee in
control of cigarette vending machines within the City to intentionally,
knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence allow the display or use of
any cigarette vending machine upon any property within the City.
      2.   Defense: It is a defense to prosecution under the provisions of this
subsection B that:
         a.   The cigarette vending machine is situated in a premises where
entry by any person under eighteen (18) years of age is prohibited by law, or
         b.   The cigarette vending machine is located in a workplace with the
permission of the employer, provided that the employer has no persons under the
age of eighteen (18) years employed at the workplace, and further provided that
the cigarette vending machine is situated at a location within the workplace to
which persons other than those employed at the workplace are not permitted to
have access.
      3.   Penalty: A violation of this subsection is hereby declared to be a
misdemeanor crime, and upon conviction, shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00). (Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-6: PROHIBITION OF SMOKING IN OUTDOOR AREAS:
   A.   Smoking shall be prohibited in the following outdoor places:
      1.   Within a reasonable distance of twenty five feet (25') outside
entrances, operable windows and ventilation system of enclosed areas, where
smoking is prohibited so as to ensure tobacco smoke does not enter those areas;
      2.   Zoo facilities and grounds;
      3.   In, and within twenty five feet (25') of, all outdoor sports arenas,
stadiums, and amphitheaters;
      4.   In, and within twenty five feet (25') of, all outdoor public
transportation stations, platforms, and shelters under the authority of the
City;
      5.   In, and within twenty five feet (25') of, all pavilions and
playgrounds located within City-owned parks;
      6.   In, and within twenty five feet (25') of the Library Courtyard.
(Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-7: AREAS WHERE SMOKING NOT REGULATED:
   A.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary,
the following areas shall be exempt from the provisions of sections
4-6-2,
4-6-3 and
4-6-4 of this chapter:
      1.   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated
as smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than twenty five percent
(25%) of rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated;
      2.   Outdoor areas except those listed specifically in the provisions in
section
4-6-6 of this chapter;
      3.   Outdoor seating areas of restaurants and bars designated as smoking
areas in accordance with subsection
4-6-10D of this chapter;
      4.   Private clubs in existence as of the effective date of this chapter,
and as defined in section
4-6-1 of this chapter, including Veterans of Foreign War (VFW) posts;
      5.   Private residences, except if used as a child care, adult day care,
or health care facility;
      6.   Retail tobacco stores; provided, however, that smoke from these
places does not infiltrate into areas where smoking is prohibited under the
provisions of this chapter; and
      7.   Tobacco product manufacturing facilities. (Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-8: PERSONS UNDER AGE OF EIGHTEEN YEARS IN SMOKING AREA:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, persons under the age of
eighteen (18) years may be admitted in establishments, facilities or other
areas that allow smoking in accordance with the provisions of this chapter if
such persons are accompanied by their parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 15-07-17,
7-11-2017)
4-6-9: DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of an establishment, facility, or outdoor
area may declare that entire establishment, facility, or outdoor area as a
nonsmoking place. Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign
conforming to the requirements of subsections 4-6-10A and B of this chapter is
posted. (Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-10: POSTING OF SIGNS:
   A.   "No Smoking" signs or the international "No Smoking" symbol (consisting
of a pictorial representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle
with a red bar across it) shall be clearly and conspicuously posted in every
public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited by this
chapter, by the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of that
place.
   B.   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   C.   All ashtrays and other smoking paraphernalia shall be removed from any
area where smoking is prohibited by this chapter by the owner, operator,
manager, or other person having control of the area.
   D.   Areas which are exempt from the provisions of sections
4-6-3 and
4-6-4 of this chapter shall post a standard sign at each entrance, to be
designated by the City informing potential patrons that the area allows
smoking, and warning patrons of the negative health effects associated with
secondhand smoke. (Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-11: RETALIATION PROHIBITED:
No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment, or customer because
that employee, applicant, or customer exercises any rights afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-12: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The Police Department, Fire Department and Code Compliance Division, in
addition to any authority having jurisdiction to enforce City ordinances, shall
have authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
initiate enforcement with the Police Department.
   C.   The Police Department, Fire Department and Code Compliance Division, or
their designees shall, while an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated
inspections, inspect for compliance with this chapter.
   D.   An owner, manager, operator, or employee of an establishment regulated
by this chapter shall inform persons violating this chapter of the appropriate
provisions thereof.
   E.   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an employee or
private citizen may bring legal action to enforce this chapter.
   F.   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this section,
the Police Department, Fire Department, Code Compliance Division, or their
designees, or any person aggrieved by the failure of the owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of a public place or a place of employment
to comply with the provisions of this chapter may apply for injunctive relief
to enforce those provisions in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 15-
07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-13: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, corporation, agent, employer or employee who intentionally,
knowingly, recklessly or with criminal negligence violates any provision of
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined an amount not more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00); provided, however, that in the event a defendant has
previously been convicted under this chapter, such defendant shall be fined an
amount not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a second conviction
hereunder, and shall be fined an amount not more than two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) for a third conviction hereunder and for each conviction
thereafter. Each day that a violation is committed or permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-14: ADDITIONAL FEES FOR RESTAURANTS:
A reasonable fee to cover staff costs associated with inspections and program
expenses may be charged by the City to the owner or operator of a restaurant in
order to establish that outdoor seating areas of restaurants designated as
smoking areas are so designated in accordance with subsection 4-6-10D of this
chapter. (Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
4-6-15: OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS:
This chapter shall not be interpreted or construed to permit smoking where it
is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws. (Ord. 15-07-17, 7-11-2017)
CHAPTER 7
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
SECTION:
4-7-1: Organization
4-7-2: Emergency Management Director; Powers And Duties
4-7-3: Emergency Management Plan
4-7-4: Interjurisdictional Program
4-7-5: Override
4-7-6: Liability
4-7-7: Commitment Of Fund
4-7-8: Offenses; Penalties
4-7-1: ORGANIZATION:
There exists the office of emergency management director of the city of Alamo,
which shall be held by the mayor in accordance with state law.
   A.   An emergency management coordinator may be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the director;
   B.   The director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the city and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this chapter. He/she may delegate duties and
responsibilities, but authority for execution shall remain with the director.
   C.   The operational emergency management organization of the city of Alamo
shall consist of the officers and employees of the city so designated by the
director in the emergency management plan, as well as organized volunteer
groups. The functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed
among such officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the emergency
management plan. (Ord. 04-02-03, 4-2-2003)
4-7-2: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES:
The duties and responsibilities of the emergency management director shall
include the following:
   A.   Surveying actual or potential hazards which threaten life and property
within the city and identifying and requiring or recommending the
implementation of measures which would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce
the impact of such hazards if a disaster did occur.
   B.   Supervision of the development and approval of an emergency management
plan for the city of Alamo, and shall recommend for adoption by the city
council all mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of
such plan.
   C.   Authority to declare a local state of disaster. The declaration may not
be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven (7) days except by or
with the consent of the city council. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing, or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the city secretary.
   D.   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations, or directives which
are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this chapter. Such
proclamations, regulations, or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the city secretary.
   E.   Direction and control of the operations of the city of Alamo emergency
management organization as well as the training of emergency management
personnel.
   F.   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that may
arise within the emergency management organization of the city.
   G.   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district, state,
regional or federal emergency management organizations.
   H.   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment, or supplies from any
department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
emergency management plan.
   I.   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local political
subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed desirable,
of an agreement with the county in which said city is located and with other
municipalities within the county, for the countywide coordination of emergency
management efforts.
   J.   Supervision of, and final authorization for the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the city.
   K.   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the city attorney, for use
of private property for public shelter and other purposes.
   L.   Surveying the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies,
and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for herein.
   M.   Other requirements as specified in the Texas disaster act 1 . (Ord. 04-
02-03, 4-2-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Local Government Code Ch. 418.
4-7-3: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN:
A comprehensive emergency management plan shall be developed and maintained in
a current state. The plan shall set forth the form of the organization;
establish and designate divisions and functions; assign responsibilities,
tasks, duties, and powers; and designate officers and employees to carry out
the provisions of this chapter. As provided by state law, the plan shall follow
the standards and criteria established by the state division of emergency
management of the state of Texas. Insofar as possible, the form of
organization, titles, and terminology shall conform to the recommendations of
the state division of emergency management. When approved, it shall be the duty
of all departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the plan
and to maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at
all times. The emergency management plan shall be considered supplementary to
this chapter and have the effect of law during the time of a disaster. (Ord.
04-02-03, 4-2-2003)
4-7-4: INTERJURISDICTIONAL PROGRAM:
The mayor is hereby authorized to join with the county judge of the county of
Hidalgo and the mayors of the other cities in said county in the formation of
an interjurisdictional emergency management program for the county of Hidalgo,
and shall have the authority to cooperate in the preparation of an
interjurisdictional emergency management plan and in the appointment of a joint
emergency management coordinator, as well as all powers necessary to
participate in a countywide program of emergency management insofar as said
program may affect the city of Alamo. (Ord. 04-02-03, 4-2-2003)
4-7-5: OVERRIDE:
At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede and override
all existing ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the latter
may be inconsistent herewith. (Ord. 04-02-03, 4-2-2003)
4-7-6: LIABILITY:
This chapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental functions for the
protection of the public peace, health, and safety and neither the city of
Alamo, the agents and representatives of said city, nor any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or trustee, nor any of
the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with, any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons
as the result of said activity. Any person owning or controlling real estate or
other premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the city of
Alamo a license of privilege, or otherwise permits the city to inspect,
designate, and use the whole or any part or parts of such real estate or
premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending, or
practice enemy attack or natural or manmade disaster shall, together with his
successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to, any person on or about such real estate or premises under such
license, privilege or other permission or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person. (Ord. 04-02-03, 4-2-2003)
4-7-7: COMMITMENT OF FUND:
No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in
carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this chapter
without prior approval by the city council, nor shall any person have any right
to bind the city by contract, agreement, or otherwise without prior and
specific approval of the city council unless during a declared disaster. During
a declared disaster, the mayor may expend and/or commit public funds of the
city when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of health, life, or
property. (Ord. 04-02-03, 4-2-2003)
4-7-8: OFFENSES; PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person wilfully to obstruct, hinder, or
delay any member of the emergency management organization in the enforcement of
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter.
   B.   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry, or display
any emblem, insignia, or any other means of identification as a member of the
emergency management organization of the city of Alamo, unless authority to do
so has been granted to such person by the proper officials.
   C.   Convictions for violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable by fine as established in title 1, chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 04-
02-03, 4-2-2003)
CHAPTER 8
GREASE AND GRIT TRAPS/INTERCEPTORS
SECTION:
4-8-1: Purpose And Intent
4-8-2: Definitions
4-8-3: Regulations
4-8-4: Exempt Limited Food Establishments
4-8-5: Penalty
4-8-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the city of Alamo's purpose and intent by this chapter to maximize the
effectiveness of all future grease interceptors installed within the city of
Alamo by setting forth the minimum size of grease interceptors for all new
commercial, institutional, or industrial food service or processing facilities.
Said size shall be a minimum of one thousand (1,000) gallons in size and in
accordance with the city of Alamo plumbing code, unless the facility fits
within exceptions listed under the exempt limited food establishments section
of this chapter. (Ord. 02-02-05, 2-20-2005)
4-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly indicates a different
intention, the following terms shall for the purpose of this chapter, have the
meanings indicated in this section, as follows:
   BOD: The value of the five (5) day test for biochemical oxygen demand, as
described in the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater".
   COD: The value of the test for chemical oxygen demand, as described in the
latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater".
   FATS, OILS, AND GREASES (FOG): Organic polar compounds derived from animal
and/or plant sources that contain multiple carbon chain triglyceride molecules.
These substances are detectable and measurable using analytical test procedures
established in 40 CFR 136, as may be amended from time to time. All are
sometimes referred to herein as "grease" or "greases".
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR: A device designed to use differences in specific
gravities to separate and retain high density liquids, automotive and
industrial oils and greases, and solids prior to the wastewater entering the
sanitary sewer collection system.
   GREASE TRAP: A smaller device installed underneath a kitchen sink and
contains the same type of grease waste collected in a grease interceptor.
   GREASE TRAP WASTE: Sand, grit, petroleum products, and other inorganic
particles collected in an interceptor or trap in the sanitary sewer line of a
commercial or industrial automotive service or washing establishment, such as
car washes, automotive and body shops and other industrial washing facilities.
   GREASE WASTE: Material collected in an interceptor or trap in the sanitary
sewer service line of a commercial, institutional, or industrial food service
or processing establishment, including the solids resulting from the rewatering
process.
pH: The measure of the relative acidity or alkalinity of water and is defined
as the negative logarithm (base 10) of the hydrogen ion concentration.
   SURFACTANTS, SOLVENTS, EMULSIFIERS: Materials which allow grease to pass
into the collection system, and include, but are not limited to, enzymes, soap,
diesel, kerosene, terpene, and other solvents.
   TSS: The value of the test for total suspended solids, as described in the
latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And
Wastewater". (Ord. 02-02-05, 2-20-2005)
4-8-3: REGULATIONS:
The grease and grit trap/interceptor waste collection and disposal service
contracted for by the city and the chosen vendor shall be used by all
generators of grease trap/interceptor waste within the city and customers shall
be charged fees for the services required by the agreement, with rate increases
subject to approval by the city.
The city prohibits grease and grit traps/interceptors waste collection and
disposal by companies not franchised by this chapter and will impose a five
hundred dollar ($500.00) per day, per customer penalty for companies operating
within the city limits without a franchise agreement.
The city of Alamo desires to follow the Texas commission on environmental
quality's (TCEQ) model standards for grease management regarding the cleaning
schedule for grease and grit traps/interceptors.
All existing grease and grit traps and interceptors shall be evacuated based on
the schedules specified in this chapter.
All new grease interceptors installed within the city of Alamo for all new
commercial, institutional, or industrial food service or processing facilities
shall be a minimum of one thousand (1,000) gallons in size and constructed and
installed in accordance with the city of Alamo plumbing code.
The city of Alamo shall issue a request for proposals in order to find the most
qualified vendor for the grease and grit trap/interceptor collection and
disposal agreement.
The chosen vendor shall pay or allow the city to collect ten percent (10%) of
the fees charged by the vendor under the agreement. (Ord. 02-02-05, 2-20-2005)
4-8-4: EXEMPT LIMITED FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS:
The following limited food service establishments are exempt from the one
thousand (1,000) gallon size requirement for grease trap interceptors if
approved by the city manager or his designee:
   A.   Adult daycare centers operated within a person's residence;
   B.   Child daycare centers operated within a person's residence; and
   C.   Gas stations which provide limited packaged food items for sale and
where minimal food preparation is involved, and where there is no meat cutting
or packaging, delicatessen, or bakeries.
These exempt limited establishments shall, within three (3) years of the
effective date hereof install a grease interceptor that has a total liquid
capacity of not less than five hundred (500) gallons.
Other limited food service establishments that may apply for an exemption from
the one thousand (1,000) gallon minimum size grease interceptor are
establishments where: a) the principal business is not the preparation and sale
of food; and b) there are less than ten (10) seats available for customers. For
establishments applying for this exemption, the size of grease interceptors
shall be determined in accordance with the city of Alamo plumbing and code
enforcement department but shall, in no case, have a total liquid capacity of
less than five hundred (500) gallons. (Ord. 02-02-05, 2-20-2005)
4-8-5: PENALTY:
The city shall have the power to administer and enforce provisions of this
chapter as may be required by governing law. Any person violating any
provisions of this chapter is subject to suit for injunctive relief as well as
prosecution for criminal violations. Any person violating any provision of this
chapter, including the collection or disposal of grease and grit trap/
interceptor waste collection by companies not franchised by this chapter or the
failure or refusal of a generator of grease and grit trap/interceptor waste to
use or pay for the collection and disposal services provided for herein may be
fined not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) per day, per customer. Each
day that a provision of this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate
offense. An offense under this chapter is a misdemeanor. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed as a waiver of the city's right to bring a civil
action to enforce the provisions of this chapter and to seek remedies as
allowed by law, including, but not limited to, the following:
   A.   Injunctive relief to prevent specific conduct that violates this
chapter or to require specific conduct that is necessary for compliance with
this chapter;
   B.   A civil penalty up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) a day when it is
shown that the defendant was actually notified of the provisions of this
chapter and after receiving notice committed acts in violation of this chapter
or failed to take action necessary for compliance with this chapter; and
   C.   Other available relief. (Ord. 02-02-05, 2-20-2005)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT 1
SECTION:
5-1-1: Assistance to Other Communities
 
Notes
1 1. See Section 4.2 of the City Charter.
5-1-1: ASSISTANCE TO OTHER COMMUNITIES:
   A.   Adoption of Statutes: The City hereby adopts and makes applicable to
the City the provisions of Texas Local Government Code, sections 362.001
through 362.003.
   B.   Authorization: The City hereby authorizes the Mayor or his successors
in office to make provision for the regularly employed law enforcement officers
of Alamo to assist any other county or municipality in the State when, in the
opinion of the Mayor, there exists in such other county or municipality a need
for the services of additional law enforcement officers to protect the health,
life and property of such other county or municipality, its inhabitants and the
visitors thereto by reason of riot, unlawful assembly, characterized by the use
of force and violence or threat thereof by three (3) or more persons acting
together without lawful authority or during time of natural disaster or man-
made calamity.
   C.   Compensation and Benefits:
      1.   While any law enforcement officer regularly employed as such by the
City is in the service of a county or other municipality pursuant to this
Section, he shall be a peace officer of such county or other municipality and
be under the command of the law enforcement officer therein who is in charge of
that county or municipality as fully as though he were within the county or
municipality where regularly employed and his qualification, respectively, for
office where regularly employed shall constitute his qualification for office
in such county or other municipality and no other oath, bond or compensation
need be made.
      2.   Any law enforcement officer of Alamo who is ordered by the Mayor or
the Chief of Police to perform police or peace duties outside the territorial
limits of the City where he is regularly employed as such officer shall be
entitled to the same wage, salary, pension and all other compensation and all
other rights for such service, including injury or death benefits, the same as
though the service had been rendered within the limits of Alamo where he is
regularly employed and such officer shall also be paid for any reasonable
expense of travel, food or lodging that he may incur while on duty outside the
City limits.
      3.   All wages and disability payments, pension payments, damage to
equipment and clothing, medical expense and expenses of travel, food and
lodging shall be paid by the City. Upon making such payments, the City shall
when it so requests be reimbursed by the county or other municipality whose
authorized officials requested the services out of which the payments arose.
      4.   The City Finance Officer is hereby expressly authorized to make
payments for the abovedescribed services of law enforcement officers of a
county or any other city upon verification that such service was in fact
rendered. (Ord. 1984, 2-21-84)
CHAPTER 2
POLICE RESERVE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Reserve Force Created
5-2-2: Membership; Qualifications; Compensation
5-2-3: Purpose and Function of the Reserve Force
5-2-4: Identification Cards
5-2-5: Dismissal of Members
5-2-1: RESERVE FORCE CREATED:
There is hereby created and established an organization to be known as the
Alamo Police Reserve Force, which shall be composed of not more than ten (10)
members. (Ord. 533, 3-3-69)
5-2-2: MEMBERSHIP; QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Qualifications:
      1.   Age Requirement: The membership of the Police Reserve Force shall
consist of volunteers over the age of twenty one (21) years.
      2.   Basic Qualifications: Membership in the Alamo Police Reserve Force
shall be based on capability, merit, health, physical ability, character,
desire, background and allied experience.
   B.   Application for Membership:
      1.   Persons desiring to become members shall apply on a form prescribed
by the Board of Commissioners of the City, undergo a strict background
investigation, submit to fingerprinting and shall be approved by the Board of
Commissioners.
      2.   A list of applicants shall be compiled by the Board of Commissioners
and the Board of Commissioners shall appoint the best qualified applicants as
the original members of the Police Reserve Force.
      3.   The Board of Commissioners shall keep said list current and shall
appoint replacements from said list to fill vacancies occurring due to
resignation or dismissal of members.
   C.   Training: Persons selected for membership shall be required to undergo
a minimum training period of one hundred twenty (120) hours, as may be directed
by the Board of Commissioners, before they are actually appointed as members of
the Police Reserve Force. Training shall be classified as either basic or
advanced and shall be under the control and supervision of the Board of
Commissioners or under their direction and if, in the opinion of the Board of
Commissioners, an applicant does not satisfactorily complete the required
training program, membership will not be granted.
   D.   Oath of Office: All members shall take an oath on their appointment to
faithfully perform all duties required of them and to uphold and enforce the
ordinances of the City and the statutes of the State and United States of
America.
   E.   Compensation; Equipment: The members of the Police Reserve Force shall
receive no compensation, but the City shall provide all necessary equipment at
no cost to the individual members of the Police Reserve Force. Whenever any
member of the Police Reserve Force shall resign or be dismissed, as hereinafter
provided, he shall immediately return all equipment issued to him to the City
Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 533, 3-3-69)
5-2-3: PURPOSE AND FUNCTION OF THE RESERVE FORCE:
   A.   Purpose of Force: The purpose of this organization is to render
assistance to the Alamo Police Department when requested, especially in
directing and controlling traffic within the City. The Reserve Police Force may
also be activated by the Mayor of the City or any City Commissioner, to render
service in the event of disaster or some such other emergency 1 .
   B.   Connection with Police Department: The Alamo Police Reserve Force shall
have no official connection with the Alamo Police Department and shall operate
separately and apart from the Alamo Police Department but all activities and
operations of the Alamo Police Reserve Force shall be under the direct control
and supervision of the Board of Commissioners of the City.
   C.   Firearms: The members of the Police Reserve Force shall not carry
firearms in the discharge of their official duties, except when expressly
authorized and directed by the City Board of Commissioners.
   D.   Official Duties:
      1.   The official duties assigned any member of the Police Reserve Force
shall take priority over any other law enforcement or firefighting duties said
member may have as a result of membership in other organizations.
      2.   When called to duty by the Board of Commissioners, members of the
Alamo Police Reserve Force shall perform such duties as specifically instructed
by the Board of Commissioners and shall not leave their designated positions
and duties until released by the Board of Commissioners. The Mayor shall have
the same power to call the Reserve Police Force into active duty and instruct
them to perform specific functions in the event of disaster or emergency and in
general preserve life and property and keep public peace and order in the City,
the members of the Reserve Police Force shall not leave their designated posts
and duties until released by the Mayor or his duly authorized assistants.
   E.   Powers on Duty: When the members of the Alamo Police Reserve Force
shall be called to active duty by the City Board of Commissioners, as
hereinbefore provided, they shall have the same powers of arrest as a member of
the Alamo Police Department; provided, that when they are not so engaged in
official duties, they shall have no such power of arrest unless requested to
aid in the physical apprehension of a person by any regular member of the Alamo
Police Department or by any county, State or Federal peace officer while in the
official discharge of his duties in the City.
   F.   Divisions: The Alamo Police Reserve Force may be subdivided into such
sections and divisions as may be deemed necessary by the Board of Commissioners
and the Board of Commissioners may appoint members of the Police Reserve Force
as head of such sections and divisions or may allow the members to elect the
heads of such sections and divisions as they may deem to be in the best
interest of the Police Reserve Force and its efficiency.
   G.   Liability: The Alamo Police Reserve Force, the City and the individual
members of the Board of Commissioners shall never be held liable or accountable
in damages as the result of any act of the members of the Alamo Police Reserve
Force. (Ord. 533, 3-3-69)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 3 of this Title.
5-2-4: IDENTIFICATION CARDS:
   A.   Issuance and Possession of Cards: Each member will be issued an
identification card identifying him as a member of the Alamo Police Reserve
Force. All members shall carry such identification cards while in the discharge
of their official duties and upon termination of membership, each member shall
immediately turn in said card to the Board of Commissioners.
   B.   False Identification Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
carry or display a Police Reserve Force identification card or otherwise
represent himself as a member of the Police Reserve Force unless he is in fact
a member thereof in good standing. (Ord. 533, 3-3-69)
   C.   Violation and Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this
Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 533, 3-3-69; 1994 Code)
5-2-5: DISMISSAL OF MEMBERS:
Any one of the following shall be sufficient grounds for dismissal of any
member from the Alamo Police Reserve Force:
   A.   Conviction of any criminal offense, except for minor traffic
violations. Upon the filing of any complaint charging a criminal offense
against any member, he shall immediately be suspended and shall be reinstated
only upon acquittal by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   B.   Failure to maintain a high moral character which would reflect on the
integrity and reputation of the Alamo Police Reserve Force.
   C.   Violation of any rule or regulation as may be established by the Board
of Commissioners of the City or their duly authorized assistants.
   D.   Acting without proper authorization in the official discharge of his
duties or failure to act in the best interest of the Alamo Police Reserve
Force.
   E.   Failure to attend three (3) consecutive drills or training sessions or
calls to duty without prior approval of the City Board of Commissioners.
   F.   Failure to attend at least sixty five percent (65%) of all drills and
training sessions or calls to duty during a twelve (12) month period.
   G.   Misrepresenting or falsifying information required on the membership
application. (Ord. 533, 3-3-69)
CHAPTER 3
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Purpose and Authority
5-3-2: Situation and Assumptions
5-3-3: Organization and Responsibilities
5-3-4: Conditions and Actions
5-3-5: State and Federal Assistance
5-3-6: Resource Management
5-3-7: Implementation
5-3-1: PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this plan is to provide for emergency
operations for the City, utilizing the existing organization of the local
government in cooperation with State and Federal government. The governing body
of the City is responsible to its citizens for saving lives, minimizing damage,
alleviating suffering and helping to restore and rehabilitate property and
society in the event of natural disaster or national emergency, including
nuclear attack or threat thereof.
   B.   Authority:
Texas Disaster Act of 1973
Texas Emergency Operations Plan
Alamo City Ordinance dated February 4, 1975
(Ord. 586, 7-1-75)
5-3-2: SITUATION AND ASSUMPTIONS:
   A.   Situation:
      1.   The City is located approximately ten (10) miles east of McAllen,
thirty five (35) miles west of Harlingen on Interstate Highway 83 and
approximately eight (8) miles north of the Texas- Mexico border. The average
population is approximately eight thousand two hundred ten (8,210) people. The
industries in the City include two (2) fruit packing sheds, one vegetable
packing shed, one frozen vegetable plant, one plastic company and is the
headquarters for three (3) national photographic studios.
      2.   The City is served by the Missouri Pacific Railroad. The major
highway servicing the City is Interstate Highway 83 and Expressway 83. The City
has its own water system. Sewage disposal services are provided by the Rio
Grande Valley Pollution Control Authority. The utilities that service the City
are Central Power and Light Company, Rio Grande Valley Gas Company, Bell
Telephone Company and Valley Cable T.V.
   B.   Assumptions:
      1.   Because of its geographical location, highway, rail and traffic
patterns, the City is subject to the following types of disaster situations:
         a.   Hurricane;
         b.   Fire and explosion;
         c.   Civil disturbance;
         d.   Plane crash;
         e.   Train accident;
         f.   Water contamination;
         g.   Gasoline storage explosion and fire;
         h.   Truck accident involving combustibles;
         i.   Radioactive materials;
         j.   Tornado;
         k.   Chemical spills, fires and explosions.
      2.   The City, in nuclear attack, would probably receive radio active
fallout.
      3.   The City may receive large numbers of refugees from the coastal
areas and from other locations in case of a nuclear attack. (Ord. 586, 7-1-75)
5-3-3: ORGANIZATION AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Concept:
      1.   The Mayor, as chief executive of local government, is responsible
for directing all emergency measures within the City. All existing agencies of
government in the City will perform emergency activities related to those they
perform in normal operations.
      2.   The basic functions of Alamo City officials relative to civil
defense is to coordinate these activities and to insure availability from other
community sources of any skills not normally available in existing City
government agencies.
   B.   Emergency Operations Center (EOC): The Mayor, assisted by the City
Commissioners, City Secretary and Civil Defense Coordinator, will exercise
direction and control from the City Emergency Operations Center (EOC). The City
EOC is located at the City Hall, 840 Austin Street, Alamo, Texas. The Mayor,
Commissioners or Civil Defense Coordinator have the authority to activate the
EOC as deemed necessary in actual or threatened emergencies. The City CD
Coordinator will prepare and keep current the EOC standing operation procedures
(SOPs).
   C.   Organization for Emergencies: Refer to the organizational chart
Attachment No. 1 to Ordinance 586 on file in the office of the City Secretary.
   D.   Executive Group Responsibilities:
      1.   Mayor and City Commissioners:
         a.   Direct City departments and volunteer forces in all types of
planning and emergency action. Inform citizens of City of the situation and
actions required of the populace.
         b.   Make emergency police decisions governing the direction of
disaster operations within the City.
         c.   Request aid or authorize such request from State or Federal
governments, including military support, if needed.
      2.   Civil Defense Coordinator:
         a.   Coordinate emergency actions for the Mayor.
         b.   Assist the chief executive in all programs and phases of the
disaster preparedness effort.
         c.   Prepare, review and revise, as necessary, the emergency
operations plan and coordinate and assist other departments in development of
operational procedures to the emergency plan.
         d.   Prepare or insure preparation of operational procedures as
follows:
Emergency public information.
Emergency Operations Center operations.
Resource management.
         e.   Coordinate with other community agencies emergency plans, i.e.,
school, Red Cross, industry, Salvation Army, private utilities and civic
groups.
         f.   Arrange for disaster preparedness training classes to meet the
needs of the City departments and the general public.
         g.   Maintain liaison with State and Federal disaster preparedness
agencies. Maintain current EOC staffing, organization and assignments.
   E.   Department and Agency Functions:
      1.   Law and Order: Be responsible for police services within the City to
include:
         a.   Law enforcement.
         b.   Protection of life and property.
         c.   Traffic control to include flow of traffic from coastal area
during hurricane evacuation.
         d.   Provide emergency communications facilities for local government,
(including coordination of all emergency communications and the formation of an
emergency communication network).
         e.   Provide for coordinated ambulance service.
         f.   In cooperation with the mortuary services, assist in the
identification of the dead.
         g.   Provide personnel to insure controlled access to disaster areas.
         h.   Assist in gathering information for intelligence and damage
assessment purposes.
         i.   Coordinate all police and related activities with all other law
enforcement agencies that may be requested to assist.
         j.   The Chief of Police or his designated representative will report
to the EOC on its activation.
         k.   Coordinate with District and State on law enforcement resources.
         l.   Make available in the EOC records listing the department's
resources, as well as listings of available outside resources.
         m.   Insure that key personnel are familiar with the overall
operations plan and knowledgeable of their specific responsibilities.
         n.   Prepare police warning and communications SOPs.
         o.   Maintain and operate the emergency warning system.
         p.   Insure that police personnel are trained and equipped for
radiological monitoring operations.
      2.   Fire Protection: The responsibilities of the Fire Chief are:
         a.   Be responsible for firefighting, including training of
auxiliaries and volunteers.
         b.   Perform rescue operations.
         c.   Assist Police Department in warning.
         d.   Insure that Fire Department personnel are trained and equipped
for radiological monitoring.
         e.   Assist in severe weather watch.
         f.   Coordinate fire, rescue and mutual aid with State and disaster
district concerning fire and rescue resources.
         g.   Prepare an SOP on fire and rescue operations and priorities
involved.
         h.   Determine hazardous chemicals and materials.
         i.   Give first aid to injured on the scene.
      3.   Communications:
         a.   The Police Department, through the Chief of Police, will be
responsible for communications between the City services, public services,
operating agencies, other cities, district, State and Federal agencies. See
communications diagram, Attachment No. 2 to Ordinance 586 on file in the office
of the City Secretary.
         b.   The Police Department will be responsible for providing, updating
and implementing the communications SOP.
      4.   Warning:
         a.   The Police Department, through the Chief of Police, will be
responsible for receiving all types of warning (nuclear, weather or other) and
for dissemination of the warning whenever coordinated resources of the City may
be required.
         b.   The Police Department will be responsible for providing, updating
and implementing the warning SOP.
      5.   Engineering: The Fire Marshal shall be responsible for maintaining
public buildings, demolitions, condemning and posting unsafe structures.
   F.   Public Works:
      1.   Streets and Garbage: A City Commissioner shall be responsible for
keeping all streets open and in safe and clean condition for through traffic,
opening up of streets into damaged area so emergency equipment can pass in a
safe manner, responsible for maintaining a log which contains a listing of
heavy equipment and operators that could be called on to be used during an
emergency, development of an SOP for this function.
      2.   Water and Sewer: A City Commissioner shall be responsible for the
following:
         a.   Maintaining and restoration of water services.
         b.   Set up priority list of restoration of services.
         c.   Assist in assessment of damage to water systems.
         d.   Prepare an SOP for emergency functions.
   G.   Private Utilities: The Civil Defense Director shall be responsible for:
      1.   Coordination with Central Power and Light Company, Rio Grande Valley
Gas Company and Bell Telephone Company will be affected by the City
coordinators.
      2.   Private utility companies should each place a representative in the
Emergency Operations Center. This EOS representative should be provided with
radio communication with their respective dispatch or work order sections so
that coordination of disaster operations may be effected with their companies.
      3.   Private companies should organize and plan for the maintenance and
restoration of utilities to essential facilities and to the citizens of the
City.
   H.   Health and Medical: The Mayor shall provide for the protection of the
population through emergency health and sanitation measures and arrange for
medical support to any affected area.
   I.   Welfare: The American Red Cross shall provide for emergency clothing,
housing, feeding, registration and family rehabilitation services, utilizing
the facilities and personnel of the State Department of Welfare, American Red
Cross and other welfare agencies in accordance with advance agreements with
them.
   J.   Personnel and Finance: The City Secretary shall be responsible for:
      1.   Manpower support, including temporary transfer of City employees to
disaster duty, hiring of additional staff or recruitment of volunteers in
emergency if requested by a particular City office;
      2.   Coordinating temporary housing;
      3.   Insuring identification to City employees, volunteers and other
agencies to permit reaching disaster assignments;
      4.   Making or authorizing emergency purchases for City government;
      5.   Providing supplies and food for the EOC staff;
      6.   The preparation of an SOP.
   K.   Damage Assessment: The City Secretary shall be responsible for:
      1.   Gathering information from department chiefs and other sources so
that the executive groups and all departments and agencies can make their
decisions from the information received;
      2.   Revision of property records to show results of a disaster and
protection of these records.
      3.   Transmitting damage estimates on public and private property to the
State and Federal offices.
   L.   Transportation: The City Commissioner shall be responsible for:
      1.   Coordinating local transportation resources in emergencies;
      2.   Assisting Police Department in planning and executing movement of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic in emergencies, including movement to
shelters, appointing assistants from transport industries as needed.
      3.   Prepare SOP for transportation.
   M.   Emergency Public Information (EPI): The Mayor shall be responsible to
inform the public of the existing situation and what is to be expected,
dangers, extent of damage and actions to be taken. To accomplish this, use
shall be made of all available means, i.e., radio, television, newspaper,
loudspeakers and posted notices. This information should seek to calm and
reassure the public as well as inform them of actions to be taken. The EPI
Officer will perform the following functions:
      1.   Prepare plans for emergency public information, in coordination with
local news media, appointing assistants from various media as needed.
      2.   Prepare daily status reports when EOC is in operation.
      3.   Secure photographic documentation of disaster damages and
activities.
   N.   Shelter (Natural/Nuclear): The Civil Defense Director shall be
responsible for:
      1.   Updating the community shelter program (CSP) as necessary;
      2.   Planning for and directing shelter occupancy, including preparation
of shelter for natural or nuclear disasters;
      3.   Providing SOPs for operation, selection and training of shelter
staffs;
      4.   Coordinating with welfare officer, school superintendent, building
owners, churches, Red Cross and other civic agencies on use of their personnel
and/or facilities in shelter operation;
      5.   Providing for a reporting system among shelters and between shelters
and the EOC, including establishment of shelter complex headquarters, if
needed.
      6.   In emergencies, directing filling of shelters, overloading, if
required, movement between shelters, evacuation of persons from endangered
shelter and final closure of shelters when possible.
      7.   The preparation of SOP on shelter operations.
   O.   Legal: The City Attorney shall be responsible for legal aid and
guidance to the City concerning emergency situations.
   P.   Radiological Defense: The Civil Defense Director shall be responsible
for radiological services to include the capability for plotting of fallouts,
forecasting evaluation of the situation and advice to the chief executive on
maximum dosage and movement during fallout. The radiological defense officer
will:
      1.   Plan, train, coordinate and supervise all radiological defense
services within the area, including selection of assistant RDOs, RMIs and RMs;
      2.   Coordinate arrangements from each City department to monitor its own
personnel and facilities. Will develop appropriate SOPs.
   Q.   Other Departments: Other City departments not assigned to disaster
mission under this plan will support the civil defense effort by making their
resources available to perform emergency duties as required.
   R.   Lines of Succession: To insure continuity of operation during
threatened or actual emergency situations, the following lines of succession
are hereby established:
Mayor
Mayor Pro Tem
Remaining Commissioners
(Ord. 586, 7-1-75))
5-3-4: CONDITIONS AND ACTIONS:
   A.   Increased Readiness Condition:
      1.   Assemble and brief City/County officials.
      2.   Arrange for printing and distribution of community shelters plan.
      3.   Review plans, personnel rosters, shelter status, training
requirements and status of equipment.
      4.   Top off gas tanks in auxiliary units and operational vehicles.
      5.   Check spares and prepare to fix flat tires.
      6.   Update rosters and plans necessary.
      7.   Prepare EOC for occupancy, on skeleton basis or completely, at the
discretion of the chief executives and their alternates.
      8.   Review or draft material to be released to the public over radio
station, television and cable TV as the emergency dictates. For example: EBS
announcements or other survival instructions.
      9.   Begin any training classes necessary to fill the vacancies or serve
as refresher for CD staff on crash basis, if required.
      10.   Prepare standby plans for extended communications such as extra
telephones or radios.
   B.   Warning of Natural Disasters:
      1.   Insofar as time and condition permit, complete all actions under
subsection A, above.
      2.   According to nature of threatened disasters, begin intense weather
watch, notify appropriate department heads and utility representatives.
      3.   Each designated staff person will immediately proceed to his place
of duty or standby for subsequent alert call.
      4.   Travel and vacation plans will be curtailed and he will keep his
home or office informed of his whereabouts at all times.
      5.   Family survival plans will be tested and rehearsed and preparations
will be made for possible relocation.
      6.   Alert and brief City officials and keep local firms, schools and
industries informed.
      7.   Warn public according to plans. (Broadcast weather warnings for
sighted tornado or other threatening disasters. Release planned information
over radio station, TV and cable TV.)
      8.   In the event the EOC is to be manned, the emergency notification
system will be initiated by the police dispatcher as follows:
         a.   The police dispatcher will see that all EOC staff personnel of
their respective jurisdiction are notified to report to the EOC.
         b.   Each department director will notify his personnel.
   C.   Warning of Nuclear Attack:
      1.   Alert local officials and other CD staff.
      2.   As appropriate, take actions under subsection A above insofar as
possible.
      3.   Activate and staff EOC and preposition shelter management staff as
appropriate.
      4.   If attack is imminent or underway, dispatch to warn population order
movement to shelter and prepare for radiological monitoring.
      5.   Begin emergency broadcast system (EBS) instruction to the public.
   D.   Post-Disaster (Natural Disaster as well as Nuclear Disaster):
      1.   In nuclear disaster, conduct radiological monitoring, warn public of
fallout conditions and determine maximum allowable dose for City/County forces
in emergency operations.
      2.   Check or reestablish communications and EBS messages.
      3.   Maintain law and order.
      4.   Maintain contact with shelters, insure orderly operations and
provide medical care, food, clothing, waste disposal, etc., to the extent
possible; determine when departure from shelter is possible.
      5.   As soon as conditions permit, determine extent of damages to
utilities, streets and buildings.
      6.   Carry out emergency plans as set forth in basic plan, SOPs and
annexes.
      7.   Establish controls on critical resources and direct their
distribution.
      8.   Request outside aid, if needed, or furnish support elsewhere.
      9.   Furnish status reports to Department of Public Safety State Disaster
District. (Ord. 586, 7-1-75)
5-3-5: STATE AND FEDERAL ASSISTANCE:
   A.   Requests for State or Federal relief assistance, including use of Texas
National Guard or other military assets, will be made to State Disaster Sub-
District 3A, (DPS) Haringen, Texas.
   B.   Request will be made by the Mayor or in the Mayor's name by other
officials directly responsible to Mayor's office. (Ord. 586, 7-1-75)
5-3-6: RESOURCE MANAGEMENT:
Resource controls, such as price freezing and/or rationing, imposed by
direction of the Mayor and Commissioners as necessary under emergency
conditions. All resources within the limits of Alamo, both public and private,
will be used when deemed necessary by appropriate government officials and upon
orders from the Mayor, during the emergency only. (Ord. 586, 7-1-75)
5-3-7: IMPLEMENTATION:
   A.   This emergency operations plan for the City supersedes and rescinds all
previous plans and operational procedures and is effective immediately. It will
be reviewed each six (6) months and revised no less than once a year.
   B.   The provisions of this Chapter are to be cumulative of all other
ordinances or parts of ordinance governing or regulating the same subject
matter as that covered herein; provided, however, that all prior ordinances or
parts of ordinances inconsistent with any of the provisions of this Chapter are
hereby expressly repealed to the extent of such inconsistency or conflict.
(Ord. 586, 7-1-75)
CHAPTER 4
FAIR HOUSING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Declaration of Policy
5-4-3: Unlawful Discrimination
5-4-4: Unlawful Intimidation
5-4-5: Exemptions from Provisions
5-4-6: Aggrievance Investigation and Rectification Procedures
5-4-7: Cooperation with Housing and Urban Development
5-4-8: Violation and Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this Chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
   ADMINISTRATOR: The individual designated by the Board of Commissioners as
the City Administrator.
   COMMITTEE: A committee appointed by the Board of Commissioners for the
purpose of implementing this fair housing Chapter.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under Section
5-4-3 of this Chapter.
   DWELLING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as or
designed and intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more families and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
   PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees
in bankruptcy, receivers, fiduciaries and any other organization or entity of
whatever character.
   RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant, for a
consideration, the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant. (Ord.
656, 11-21-78)
5-4-2: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City to bring about
through fair, orderly and lawful procedures, the opportunity for each person to
obtain housing without regard to his race, color, religion, national origin,
familial status or sex.
   B.   It is further declared that this policy is grounded upon a recognition
of the inalienable right to each individual to provide for himself and his
family a dwelling according to his own choosing, and further, that the denial
of such rights through considerations based upon race, color, religion,
national origin, familial status or sex is detrimental to the health, safety
and welfare of the inhabitants of the City and constitutes an unjust denial or
deprivation of such inalienable right which is within the power and the proper
responsibility of government to prevent. (Ord. 656, 11-21-78; 1994 Code)
5-4-3: UNLAWFUL DISCRIMINATION:
   A.   Discrimination in the Sale or Rental of Housing: Except as exempted by
Section
5-4-5 of this Chapter, it shall be unlawful:
      1.   To refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of or otherwise make unavailable
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status or sex.
      2.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, national
origin, familial status or sex.
      3.   To make, print or publish or cause to be made, printed or published
any notice, statement or advertisement with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination.
      4.   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion,
national origin, familial status or sex that any dwelling is not available for
inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is in fact so available.
      5.   For profit, or with the hope or expectation of profit, to induce or
attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations
regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person of a
particular race, color, religion, national origin, familial status or sex.
   B.   Discrimination in the Financing of Housing: It shall be unlawful for
any bank, building and loan association, insurance company or other
corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in whole
or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan or
other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling or to
discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration
or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance because
of the race, color, religion, national origin, familial status or sex of such
person or of any person associated with him in connection with such loan or
other financial assistance of the present or prospective owners, lessees,
tenants or occupants of the dwelling in relation to which such loan or other
financial assistance is to be made or given.
   C.   Discrimination in the Provision of Brokerage Services: It shall be
unlawful to deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple listing service, real estate broker organization or other service,
organization or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of such
access, membership or participation on account of race, color, religion,
national origin, familial status or sex. (Ord. 656, 11-21-78; 1994 Code)
5-4-4: UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person, whether or not acting under color of law,
by force or threat of force to wilfully injure, intimidate or interfere with or
attempt to injure, intimidate or interfere with:
   A.   Any person because of his race, color, religion, national origin,
familial status or sex and because he is or has been selling, purchasing,
renting, financing, occupying or contracting or negotiating for the sale,
purchase, rental, financing or occupation of any dwelling or applying for or
participating in any service, organization or facility relating to the business
of selling or renting dwellings; or
   B.   Any person because he is or has been, or in order to intimidate such
person or any other person or class of person from:
      1.   Participating, without discrimination on account of race, color,
religion, national origin, familial status or sex in any of the activities,
services, organizations or facilities described in subsection A hereof; or
      2.   Affording another person or class of person opportunity or
protection so to participate.
   C.   Any person, because he is or has been, in order to discourage such
person or any other person from lawfully aiding or encouraging other persons to
participate, without discrimination on account of race, color, religion,
national origin, familial status or sex, in any of the activities, services,
organizations or facilities described in subsection A hereof, or participating
lawfully in speech or peaceable assembly opposing any denial of the opportunity
so to participate. (Ord. 656, 11-21-78; 1994 Code)
5-4-5: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
   A.   There shall be exempted from the application of subsection 5-4-3A of
this Chapter:
      1.   Any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses, wherever located, at any one time; provided, further, that in
the case of the sale of any such single-family house by a private individual
owner not residing in such house at the time of such sale or who was not the
most recent resident of such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by
this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such sale within any
twenty four (24) month period; provided, further, that such bona fide private
individual owner does not own any interest in nor is there owned or reserved on
his behalf under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to
all or a portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three
(3) such single-family houses at any one time; provided, further, the sale or
rental of any such single-family house shall be excepted from the application
of this title only if such house is sold or rented a) without the use in any
manner of sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any
real estate broker, agent or salesman or of such facilities or services of any
person in the business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or
agent of any such broker, agent, salesman or person, and b) without the
publication, posting or mailing of any advertisement or written notice in
violation of subsection 5-4-3A3 of this Chapter, but nothing in this provision
shall prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents, abstractors, title
companies and other such professional assistance as necessary to perfect or
transfer the title;
      2.   The rental of rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters
occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four (4) families living
independently of each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of
such living quarters as his residence.
   B.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization,
association or society, from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of a
dwelling, which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, to
persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such persons, unless
membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, national
origin, familial status or sex.
   C.   Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit a private club not in fact open
to the public which, as an incident to its primary purpose, provides lodgings
which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting
the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members. (Ord. 656, 11-21-78)
5-4-6: AGGRIEVANCE INVESTIGATION AND RECTIFICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Complaints:
      1.   Filing Of Complaints:
         a.   Aggrieved Person: Any person who claims to have been injured by a
discriminatory housing practice or who believes that he will be irrevocably
injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur
(hereinafter referred to as "person aggrieved") may file a complaint with the
Administrator. Such complaints shall be in writing and shall identify the
person alleged to have committed or alleged to be about to commit the
discriminatory housing practice and shall set forth the particulars thereof.
The Administrator is directed to prepare and adopt, from time to time, standard
complaint forms and to furnish them without charge to any person aggrieved. The
Administrator and employees of his office may assist in the clerical
preparation of such complaints.
         b.   Administrator: If at any time the Administrator shall receive or
discover credible evidence and shall have probable cause to believe that any
person has committed a discriminatory housing practice as to which no complaint
has been filed or is about to be filed, the Administrator may prepare and file
a complaint upon his own motion and in his own name and such complaint shall
thereafter be treated in the same manner as a complaint filed by a person
aggrieved.
      2.   Referral from Secretary of Housing and Urban Development: The
Administrator shall receive and accept notification and referral of complaints
from the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the provisions
of title VIII, Fair Housing Act of 1968, Public Law 90-284, and shall treat
such complaints in the same manner as complaints filed directly by the person
aggrieved.
      3.   Supplementary Complaint: If, in the course of any investigation, as
provided in subsection B hereof, on a complaint filed with or referred to the
Administrator, he shall receive credible evidence and shall have probable cause
to believe that the person named in such complaint has committed a
discriminatory housing practice on grounds not stated in such complaint, the
Administrator may prepare and file a supplementary complaint upon his own
motion and in his own name and such supplementary complaint shall thereafter be
treated in the same manner as an original complaint filed by a person
aggrieved.
      4.   Time of Filing: A complaint under subsections A1 through A3 hereof
shall be filed within one hundred eighty (180) days after the alleged
discriminatory housing practice occurred.
      5.   Contents of Complaints and Answers: Complaints shall state the facts
upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are based.
Complaints may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time. A respondent may
file an answer to the complaint against him and, with the leave of the
Administrator, which shall be granted whenever it would be reasonable and fair
to do so, may amend his answer at any time. Both complaints and answers shall
be signed.
      6.   Copy to Alleged Violator: Upon the filing or referral of any
complaint, the Administrator shall furnish a copy of the same to the person
named in the complaint.
   B.   Investigation:
      1.   Initiation of Investigation: Upon the filing of a complaint as
herein provided, the Administrator shall cause to be made a prompt
investigation of the matter stated in the complaint.
      2.   Testimonies and Statements: In connection with such investigation,
the Administrator may question and take and record testimony and statements of
such persons who appear and may examine, record and copy documents which are
produced.
   C.   Informal Conciliation Efforts:
      1.   During or after the investigation, the Administrator shall, if it
appears that a discriminatory housing practice act has occurred or is about to
occur, attempt by informal endeavors to effect conciliation, including
voluntary discontinuance or rectification of the discriminatory housing
practice and voluntary compliance and adequate assurance of future voluntary
compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   In the event the conciliation is effected, the Administrator shall
disclose nothing said or done in the course of such conciliation in such a way
as to make public identification of the person named in the complaint without
the written consent of the persons concerned.
   D.   Committee Hearing:
      1.   Referral of Complaint by Administrator: Upon completion of the
investigation and informal endeavors at conciliation by the Administrator, but
within thirty (30) days of the filing of the complaint with the Administrator,
and if conciliation has not been effected, the Administrator shall refer the
complaint to the Committee together with the answer of the respondent, if any,
and a full report of his investigation and activities in the matter.
      2.   Notice of Hearing: The Committee shall promptly set a date for the
hearing. This date shall be within thirty (30) days of the date on which the
Administrator referred the complaint. At least five (5) days' prior written
notice of the hearing shall be given to the person alleged to have committed or
to be about to commit the discriminatory housing practice.
      3.   Conduct of Hearing: The hearing shall be conducted in a fair and
impartial manner and shall be public. Proof of the matters alleged within the
complaint may be presented by the Administrator. The complainant and the person
alleged to have committed or to be about to commit the discriminatory housing
practice may appear personally or by representative and with or without legal
counsel and shall have the right to present proof and cross-examine witnesses
in all matters relating to the complaint and subsequent related matters. In the
event that a person alleged to have committed or to be about to commit a
discriminatory housing practice shall fail to appear at the Committee hearing
either personally or by representative, after notice as provided above, then
such hearing shall be deemed waived by such person.
      4.   Attempt for Voluntary Discontinuance: If, after such hearing, a
majority of the Committee shall determine on the basis of evidence at the
hearing that the complaint is well founded, the Committee shall forthwith by
persuasion, education and entreating diligently attempt to secure, within a
reasonable time, not to exceed thirty (30) days, voluntary discontinuance of
any discriminatory housing practice.
   E.   Certification to City Attorney: If the Committee shall determine that a
discriminatory housing practice has occurred and if a hearing before the
Committee on the complaint alleging such violation has been waived or if the
Committee has held a hearing and the efforts of the Committee to secure
voluntary compliance have been unsuccessful, the Committee shall cause the
Administrator to certify, in writing, to the City Attorney that such
discriminatory housing practice has occurred and request the City Attorney to
forthwith prosecute such violation in the Municipal Court of the City.
   F.   Legal Proceedings:
      1.   Upon certification by the Administrator pursuant to the direction of
the Committee, the City Attorney shall institute a charge in the Municipal
Court and prosecute the same to final conclusion.
      2.   The certification to the City Attorney and the actions to be taken
by the City Attorney shall be cumulative of all other remedies and procedures
for the effectuation and enforcement of this Chapter and the prosecution of
alleged violators of this Chapter. (Ord. 656, 11-21-78)
5-4-7: COOPERATION WITH HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT:
The Committee and the Administrator are authorized and encouraged to cooperate
with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to the provisions
of title VIII, Fair Housing Act of 1968, Public Law 90-284, and may render such
service to the Secretary as they shall deem appropriate to further the policies
of this Chapter and may accept reimbursement from the Secretary for services
rendered to assist him in carrying out the provisions of the above cited
Federal law. (Ord. 656, 11-21-78)
5-4-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person violating the terms and provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 656, 11-21-78; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Prohibited
5-5-2: Definitions
5-5-3: Owners General Responsibilities
5-5-4: Animal Cruelty
5-5-5: Rabies Vaccination
5-5-6: Licensing And Tags
5-5-7: Running At Large
5-5-8: Barking/Howling/Yelping Dogs
5-5-9: Vicious Animal Declaration
5-5-10: Requirements For Keeping A Vicious Animal
5-5-11: Impoundment
5-5-1: PROHIBITED:
   A.   Unless the animal is a bona fide Service Animal or an Emotional Support
Animal as defined in Section 5-5-2, it shall be unlawful for any person to keep
or cause to be kept within the City limits, the animals listed below (Note:
realistically, not all animals that risk disrupting harmony in a neighborhood
can be listed; therefore, if a non-listed animal is discovered within the City
that appears to be so disruptive, then the Police Chief’s professional
discretion shall determine if the animal should be prohibited from the city
limits or not. It is also declared that any poisonous reptile, constricting-
type snakes, or naturally wild/ dangerous animals are prohibited):
         Hogs or swine or similar type animals
         Livestock (cattle, horses, donkeys, mules, sheep, goats)
         Fowl (chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys, etc)
   B.   Violation and Penalty: Any person violating the restraint and care
provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
subject to the penalty as prescribed in Section 1-4-1 of this Code of
Ordinances. The Municipal Court Judge, in addition to any fine imposed, may
sentence the convicted defendant to complete, at their own cost, a responsible
owner course every time they are found guilty; the certificate of completion
shall be a required item of tangible evidence that such a judicial measure was
officially complied with. Courses may include, but are not limited to, the
following (though other courses may be available that have the same intent):
   C.   Texas Responsible Pet Owner Course - a course designed to rehabilitate
and change the behavior of those convicted of animal cruelty offenses and teach
offenders to be more humane to animals.
   D.   Texas Animal Cruelty Education Program - an educational program often
required in the state of Texas for individuals facing charges related to animal
cruelty. (Ord. 184-07-25, 7-1-2025)
5-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
            To fail to adequately provide an animal with one (1) or more of the necessities
            of life, including but not limited to air, food, sanitary conditions, adequate
            shelter, protection from the heat, cold, or other extreme weather conditions;
ABANDON:    or under other circumstances that may cause bodily or emotional injury, serious
            bodily injury, or death of the animal; neglected for a continuous twenty-four
            (24) hour period; or to leave an animal in the care, custody, or control of
            another person without his or her consent.
            An act that continually causes an animal to be overloaded or forced to work or
ABUSE:      conduct itself in a manner unsuitable to its species, breed, condition, or
            health.
            A sturdy structure that both provides the animal protection from extreme
ADEQUATE    weather, and consists of dimensions that allow the dog to stand erect, sit,
SHELTER:    turn around, and lie down in a normal position while in the shelter; and said
            shelter being clean of any sanitary waste or presence of ticks, fleas, or
            similar pests.
CITY:       The City of Alamo, Texas.
COLLAR:     A band of material specifically designed to be placed around the neck of an
            animal
            An overt act committed that harms or needlessly kills an animal; or committed
CRUELTY:    out of depraved indifference for the animal s wellbeing, including but not
            limited to torture, maiming, beating, or otherwise committing violence that
            causes physical or emotional injury or death.
            A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits a major life activity
DISABILITY: including but not limited to caring for oneself, working, performing manual
            tasks, reading, hearing, eating, and walking.
DOG:        A domestic canine of either sex, including one neutered or sterilized.
            Any animal whose presence clearly provides emotional support, comfort, or
            companionship for a person with such needs; but said animal is not individually
            trained to perform any task related to the disability. Should investigative
            circumstances warrant that the Emotional Support Animal be declared (in
            writing) by a medical or social welfare authority, the Police Chief may use
            professional discretion to so require such a general declaration. Such animals
            shall not be bred or be sold or intended for re-selling purposes; shall not
            roam beyond the owners confinement area; shall be neutered when age-
            appropriate; shall be vaccinated where such vaccinations are perpetually kept
            up-to-date or have wellness documentation to be provided upon request by city
            officials; and kept in sanitary conditions whereby, if there are adjoining
            residential neighbors, shall be kept at least 15' from the subject property s
            boundaries. The City of Alamo, in compassionate sensitivity to its residents,
EMOTIONAL   will generally permit non-ESAs to be maintained pursuant to the same care
SUPPORT     criteria prescribed for ESA animals so long as non-ESAs DO NOT cause a
ANIMAL      consistent annoyance, pose a security threat, or generate an unsanitary or odor
(ESA):      issue to the neighborhood. In the case of a rooster as a non-ESA, should there
            be an official complaint filed (due to its crowing), then the owner must secure
            a written petition reflecting a minimum 70% nonopposition from his/her
            neighbors based on a 150' radius from the owners property s boundaries; once
            the petition is secured, it shall be provided to the Police Chief and the
            Director of Community Planning & Development for verification purposes; once
            confirmed, the petition s merits will be considered valid for a maximum period
            of five (5) years; should there be another rooster complaint filed after the 5-
            year tenure expired, a new petition will be required. It is noted that should
            the petition s 70% threshold not be secured by the rooster owner, then the
            rooster must be removed from the premises within 72-hours from the City s
            notice to do so. In regard to the temporary care of livestock for FFA-type
            related extracurricular activities, this may be permitted so long as the ESA
            care/maintenance criteria above is complied with; a reasonable tenure for
            compliance will be provided.
ENCLOSURE:  A fence or structure suitable to fully prevent the escape of the animal.
            Extreme events of unusually severe weather or climate conditions that can cause
EXTREME     devastating impacts on communities and agricultural and natural ecosystems.
WEATHER:    Weather- related events include heat waves, hail storms, heavy snow, high
            winds, extreme temperatures, freezes, heavy downpours, tropical cyclones,
            floods, and hurricanes.
FENCED      An area that is completely surrounded by a substantial fence of sufficient
YARD:       construction, materials, strength, height, and design as to prevent any animal
            confined within from escaping.
HARNESS:    A set of straps constructed of nylon, leather, or similar material,
            specifically designed to restrain or control an animal.
            Care of an animal including, but not limited to, adequate heat, ventilation,
HUMANE      sanitary shelter, wholesome food, sufficient water, and regular personal
MANNER:     contact with normal caring requirements and feeding habits of the animal s
            size, species, and breed.
KENNEL:     A structure or shelter for animals which is enclosed and secure.
            An act involving failure to provide for animal health or safety, including but
NEGLECT:    not limited to provide adequate food, water, shelter, exercise, or necessary
            veterinary care or failure to adequately confine an animal in an uncontested
            manner appropriate to its species, breed, age, and condition.
            A person having the right of custody, legal, or apparent, of an animal who
OWNER:      keeps or harbors an animal or knowingly permits an animal to remain on or about
            any premises occupied by that person.
PROPERLY    With respect to a harness, a harness that:
FITTED:
           A.    Is appropriately sized for the dog based on the dog s measurements and
            body weight;
           B.   Does not choke the dog or impede the dog s normal breathing or swallowing;
            and
           C.   Does not cause pain, discomfort or injury to the dog.
           D.   These provisions will also apply to other domesticated animals when
            warranted.
            A tether, leash, or other device of adequate length that attaches onto a dogs
RESTRAINT:  harness and affixed to a stationary object or trolley system. In no
            circumstance shall a dog ever be restrained by a chain or rope for such will
            cause lacerations inducing infection.
            To be free of physical restraint beyond the owner s premises. Any animal when
            not upon the premises of its owner and controlled by a leashed harness held by
RUN AT      a competent person shall not be deemed to be running at large. Fixed length
LARGE:      leashes shall not exceed 12 feet in length; retractable leashes shall be
            lockable at 6 feet and shall not exceed 25 feet in total length. A dog that is
            free of physical restraints within the confines of a bona fide animal park and
            in compliance with park regulations shall not be deemed to be running at large.
            An animal that has been individually trained to perform specific task(s) for a
            person with a disability. The task must help the person cope with the
SERVICE     disability. The animal does not have to be trained by a professional trainer
ANIMAL:     but may be trained by the owner. If investigative circumstances warrant that
            the Service Animal needs confirmation as such, the Police Chief may use his/her
            professional discretion to so require such general declaration from a medical
            authority familiar with the specific Service Animal.
            An animal running at large and without an ascertainable owner. It is a
STRAY:      rebuttable presumption that a cat or dog without a reputable license tag has no
            ascertainable owner.
TETHERING:  To tie (an animal) with a proper leash and harness as to restrict its movement.
            A dog that, without justification, attacks a person or domestic animal causing
VICIOUS     physical injury or death; or that behaves in a manner that a reasonable person
DOG:        would believe poses an imminent threat of serious injury or death to one or
            more persons or domestic animals.
 
(Ord. 184-07-25, 7-1-2025; amd. Ord. 187-07-25, 7-15-2025)
5-5-3: OWNERS GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   An owner commits an offense if the owner fails to restrain the animal,
at all times:
      1.   In a fenced yard so as to viably constrain and safely contain the
animal;
      2.   In an enclosure that will viably and safely contain the animal;
      3.   In a structure or kennel of sufficient size to correlate to an
approximate 8'x8' square feet per animal; or
      4.   B a tethering device latched onto a harness that is properly fitted,
BUT only if the animal is accompanied by the animal’s owner or custodian. In
addition, the owner of a tethered dog shall:
         a.   Not allow the dog’s tethered harness to become entangled so as to
severely limit the dog’s movement; or cause physical or emotional anguish/
injury the dog;
         b.   use a properly fitted harness that is specifically designed for
the dog (see definition ‘Harness’ in Section
5-5-2); and
         c.   attach the tethering device to the dog’s harness and not directly
to the dog’s collar. It is prohibited to use a leash, rope, chain or other
similar device onto the dog’s collar to limit its movement, even if such is
within fenced private property. Should there be a need to contain the dog while
others are in the same private property, a properly sized kennel pursuant to
the number of dogs shall be required for such containment.
   B.   An owner commits an offense of ‘neglect’ if the owner restrains a
domestic animal without providing the domestic animal access, at all times, to
potable water and shelter which protects the domestic animal from direct
sunlight, standing water, and extreme weather conditions, including conditions
which:
      1.   The actual or effective outdoor temperature is below 36- 38 degrees
Fahrenheit; b) a heat advisory has been issued by a local or state authority or
jurisdiction; or c) a hurricane, tropical storm, or tornado warning has been
issued for the jurisdiction by the National Weather Service; or other extreme
weather conditions are evident to reasonably determine that the animal will be
at risk of being injured.
   C.   Any owner of an animal shall maintain a clean and healthy shelter and
living area for any animal being kept, which area shall be free of accumulated
waste, debris, pests, fleas, and ticks so that the animal shall be free to walk
or lie down without coming in contact with such waste, debris, or pests. All
shelters or living areas must be cleaned and maintained regularly so as to
promote proper health for the animals being kept. The owner of any animal that
is kept shall also be cognizant and sensitive to the odor that will be produced
from having the animal(s) on their private premises. Should there be a
complaint in regard to intense odor due to waste or other animal care issues,
it is the duty of the owner to promptly abate the nuisance. The City’s animal
control agent shall have the inherent right, during reasonable hours, to
inspect such premises for compliance to the terms of this Title.
   D.   No owner shall abandon any animal. Abandonment consists of leaving such
animal for a period in excess of 24 hours without providing for someone to
feed, water, and check the animal’s condition. No owner shall leave an animal
by a roadside or other similar area; or leave such animal on either public or
private property without the owner’s consent and agreement to care for the
animal. If an animal is found so abandoned, such animal may be taken by the
city designee and impounded in a designated facility, animal shelter, or other
facility such as the Humane Society, and there confined in a humane manner.
   E.   It is declared that should there be a conflict with the provisions of
this Chapter and the Texas Health and Safety Code, Title 10 ‘Health and Safety
of Animals’, Chapter 821 ‘Treatment and Disposition of Animals’, that the more
restrictive of the two shall prevail. Furthermore, should there be a
circumstance that is not covered by this Chapter, then the prevailing
regulations of the Texas Health and Safety Code, as referred to above, shall be
applied subject to penalties of Section
1-4-1 of the City’s Code of Ordinances.
   F.   The maximum number of domesticated pets that an owner/keeper/custodian
shall have per premises, whether owned, rented or leased, shall be no more than
six (6) adult animals; said six (6) may be a combination of dogs and cats. Pets
such as birds are exempt from this provision so long as the number does not
create an un-healthy and un-sanitary condition on the residential property. It
is noted that residential property of one acre or more may increase the number
of domesticated pets on the basis of 8 combined pets per acre.
   G.   No animal shall be allowed to cause a disturbance by virtue of the
animals’ vocalized sounds, intense odor reflecting a non-maintained area, or
other disruptive circumstances. The owner, keeper or custodian of the animal
shall be held responsible and accountable for every disruptive type of behavior
their animal inflicts to its surrounding neighborhood. Penalty under this
provision shall be subject to Section
1-4-1 of these Code of Ordinances.
   H.   It is unlawful for anyone to regularly or routinely harbor, feed, care
for or provide any form of sustenance to a (stray) dog or (stray) cat or other
such animal on city property or public right-of-way. (Ord. 184-07-25, 7-1-2025)
5-5-4: ANIMAL CRUELTY:
   A.   It is unlawful for anyone to beat, cruelly ill-treat, torment,
overload, overwork, or otherwise abuse an animal or cause, instigate, or permit
any dogfight, cockfight, bullfight, or other combat between animals or between
animals and humans.
   B.   It is unlawful to breed or train an animal for fighting with any other
animal.
   C.   It is unlawful to have charge, custody, or possession of any animal or
fowl, either as owner or otherwise, and unjustifiably fail to provide it with
sufficient food and water, safe and proper shelter, adequate veterinary care,
and/or with humane care and treatment constitutes animal cruelty.
   D.   No person shall leave any animal in any standing or parked vehicle in
such a way as to intentionally, knowingly or unknowingly, recklessly, or with
criminal negligence endanger the animal’s health or safety. Any animal control
officer or police officer is hereby authorized to use reasonable force,
including the breaking of a window, if the animal’s health or life is at risk
whereafter said animal shall be impounded. The attending police officer shall
then leave a business card, citation or other form of ‘Notice’ on the vehicle
bearing the name of the officer removing the animal, a telephone number where
he/ she can be contacted, and the location where the animal may be claimed by
the owner. It is declared that any person violating this section shall
reimburse the city for the full cost and expense incurred by the city in the
care, medical treatment, and impoundment of the animal, including the removal
from a vehicle before regaining possession of the animal.
   E.   This section is not intended to contravene the provisions regarding
animal cruelty in the Texas Penal code; which said Penal Code shall also be
applicable should circumstances warrant their application.
   F.   Any failure to comply with this section may result in confiscation of
the animal with citation(s) being issued against the person(s) in alleged
violation of this code; penalties shall be subject to Section
1-4-1 of this Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 184-07-25, 7-1-2025; amd. Ord. 187-07-
25, 7-15-2025)
5-5-5: RABIES VACCINATION:
All dogs within the city limits are required to be vaccinated against rabies by
a licensed veterinarian, and shall be issued a certificate to the effect that
the dog has been vaccinated. The Chief of Police or any city police officer
shall have the right, at any reasonable time, to inspect any dog to determine
if said dog is vaccinated as required and shall have the authority to enter any
premises for such purpose. It shall be unlawful for any person to refuse
entrance to any city police officer; or to impede, obstruct or exclude said
police official when attempting to enter such premises for the purpose of
inspecting a dog’s vaccination credentials. Any person who shall refuse
entrance, impede, or obstruct the police official from the aforementioned
inspection service(s) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code of Ordinances. (Ord. 184-07-25, 7-1-2025)
5-5-6: LICENSING AND TAGS:
   A.   All dogs kept, harbored or maintained by their owners in the City shall
be licensed and registered by a reputable animal care facility if over five (5)
months of age.
   B.   Owners shall have their dogs equipped with licensed tags as a measure
of certifying that their vaccinations and other vital forms of identification
and medical attention are valid and are not expired. Micro-chip identification
is also considered an identifier mechanism that is acceptable.
   C.   Dog tags shall not be transferable to any another dog. (Ord. 184-07-25,
7-1-2025; amd. Ord. 187-07-25, 7-15-2025)
5-5-7: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run at large
within the city limits; if so, such a dog may be considered as a ‘stray’. If
this provision is violated that risks the health and safety of Alamo citizens,
or other domesticated pets, it is hereby ordained that any owner, keeper or
custodian of a dog who is running at large, whether on public or private
property, shall, upon being found guilty by the City’s Municipal Court Judge
shall be subject to penalty via Section 1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 184-07-25, 7-
1-2025)
5-5-8: BARKING/HOWLING/YELPING DOGS:
It shall be unlawful to keep any dog in the City which by loud, frequent or
habitual barking or if there is continuous howling/yelping that causes
annoyance and disturbs the peace and quiet of any person with reasonable
sensitivities. Any such person who believes that there has been a violation of
this section shall have the right to formally file a complaint against the
owner/keeper of such dog’s continuous barking/howling/yelping. Upon
investigation of such complaint, and if the merits and (audio/video) evidence
are compelling, then the matter may be presented to the Municipal Court whereby
the Judge may then adjudicate the matter; considering penalties via Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 184-07-25, 7-1-2025)
5-5-9: VICIOUS ANIMAL DECLARATION:
   A.   An animal that may be suspected of being ‘vicious’ may be investigated
by the Police Department. Upon such investigation, if the city finds that the
animal’s behavior and instinct is said to be ‘vicious’, said animal shall be so
classified in a file identified as ‘Vicious Dogs’ citing the date so
classified, the officer(s) determining said classification, the street address,
owners’ name, the owners’ email address, and type of dog with a downloaded
photograph of the animal to also include its approximate age; this file shall
be kept in perpetuity.
   B.   No animal may be declared ‘vicious’ for injury or damage sustained by a
person who was committing a willful trespass or other similar tort upon the
premises of the animal’s owner.
   C.   No animal may be declared ‘vicious’ for injury or damages sustained by
a person who was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal.
   D.   No animal may be declared ‘vicious’ for injury or damages sustained if
the dog was defending or protecting its owner from unjustified attack or
assault; or was protecting or defending its young or other animals from harm or
attack.
   E.   No dog shall be deemed ‘vicious’ simply by its breed.
   F.   Within 5 days of declaring an animal ‘vicious’, the Police Department
shall notify the animal’s owner in writing of the declaration by personal
service. In the alternative, notice may be by certified mail or by posting such
notice prominently on the animal owner’s property; once posted, the city
official shall take a photograph showing the time/date when so posted. The
notice shall:
      1.   Reference Section
5-5-10 of these Code requirements for safely keeping a ‘vicious’ animal; and
      2.   Order the owner to immediately comply with the confinement and other
requirements of Section
5-5-10 and any other applicable provision(s), and advise the owner of his/her
right to request a hearing under Section
5-5-9(7) of this Code.
   G.   The owner of an animal declared ‘vicious’ shall have the right, within
5 working days after service of the notice, to personally serve upon the Police
Chief a written request for a hearing should he/she desire to contest the
‘vicious’ animal declaration. The city’s recipient shall then file the hearing
request with the Municipal Court whereafter a hearing shall be held within a
reasonable time but no later than 30-calendar days therefrom.
   H.   The hearing under this Code shall be before Alamo’s Municipal Court
Judge, and shall be formal, and strict rules of evidence shall apply. The owner
may be represented by counsel; may present oral and/or written evidence; and
may cross- examine witnesses.
   I.   At the hearing, all interested persons shall be given the opportunity
to present evidence and/or testimony of the dog’s alleged viciousness. Criteria
to be considered in such a hearing may include, but not limited to, the
following:
      1.   Provocation;
      2.   Any and all previous complaints or incidents where the specific
animal was involved;
      3.   Observable behavior of the dog;
      4.   Site and circumstances of the incident; and
      5.   Statements from interested parties and/or witnesses.
   J.   After all evidence and testimonies are presented, and closing arguments
are expressed, the Municipal Court Judge shall issue a decision within five
business days after the close of the hearing. The Municipal Court shall then
notify the owner and Police Chief, in writing, of the final decision rendered.
The Police Chief shall update the ‘Vicious Dog’ file with the Municipal Court’s
verdict including cross-referencing a downloaded copy of the Judge’s
correspondence.
   K.   The Municipal Court Judge may uphold the ‘vicious’ animal declaration,
in which event the owner shall comply with all of the requirements and
conditions for keeping a ‘vicious’ animal as set forth in Section 5-5-10 of
this Code.
   L.   The decision by the Municipal Court Judge shall be final.
   M.   The owner will be responsible for payment of all boarding costs plus
other associated and administrative fees as may be required to humanely and
safely keep the dog at the animal shelter through the appeals process.
   N.   It shall be unlawful by the owner or keeper of a deemed ‘vicious’ dog
to not fully comply with the confinement provisions for such dogs, as regulated
in this Code.
   O.   Section 22 of the State of Texas Health and Safety Code, as it may be
amended by State law from time to time, is hereby adopted for the city, and
such law is referred to, incorporated in this chapter and made a part of this
chapter for purposes where the city regulation may not fully address the
circumstances of a specific given matter. (Ord. 187-07-25, 7-15-2025)
5-5-10: REQUIREMENTS FOR KEEPING A VICIOUS ANIMAL:
   A.   The owner of a ‘vicious’ animal shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      1.   Upon official designation as a ‘vicious’ dog, the owner must acquire
an annual permit from the Alamo Police Department to keep a ‘vicious’ dog and
pay appropriate fees and comply with all applicable vicious dog regulations;
such a permit shall be valid until December 31st of the applicable year. It is
recommended that owners commence renewal efforts in early December to secure
the renewal permit to be effective January 1st. There is no fee for this
permit.
      2.   Confinement: All ‘vicious’ animals shall be confined upon the
premises of the owner indoors or outdoors in a secure enclosure. Confinement
shall comply with the applicable provisions of this Code.
      3.   A ‘vicious’ dog may be away from the owners’ premises or out of its
enclosure only if it is muzzled and restrained by a substantial leash having a
minimum tensile strength of three hundred (300) pounds, and not exceeding six
(6) feet in length, and attached to a leather or nylon harness (not a choke
chain). The muzzle must not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration, but must prevent it from biting any person or animal. No
person under the age of eighteen (18) shall be in charge or control of a
‘vicious’ dog. No person physically incapable of restraining or controlling a
‘vicious’ dog, either due to weight or strength of the dog, or if such person
is under the influence or medically incapable, shall be in charge or control of
such a dog.
      4.   The owner shall prominently display signs on his/her premises at all
entry points warning that there is a ‘vicious’ dog (or dogs) on the property,
as well as within any fenced enclosure. These signs shall bear the words
“BEWARE OF DOG” or “DANGEROUS DOG” in letters at least three and one-half (3-1/
2) inches high, and shall be placed as to be readily visible to any person
approaching the premises. If such required signs are eroded due to sun exposure
or weather conditions or inclement weather dislodges them, such signs must be
replaced within 24 hours; and failure to do so is unlawful.
      5.   The Municipal Court Judge, in his/her discretion during the hearing
process shall have the discretion to require a ‘vicious’ dog to be spayed or
neutered to thus preserve the safety of the general public.
      6.   The Animal Control Officer or Code Enforcement Officer, in their
discretion, shall have, during normal business hours, the authority to conduct
inspections as are deemed necessary to ensure that the provisions required
herein are fully complied with.
      7.   Prior to a ‘vicious’ dog being sold or given away, the owner shall
provide the name, address, email address, and phone number of the new owner to
the Police Chief -this may be transmitted through email. The new owner, if a
resident in Alamo’s corporate limits, shall execute a brief document
acknowledging that he/she is aware of the ‘vicious’ dog classification, and
that said owner shall comply with the requirements of this Code within five (5)
business days.
      8.   An owner of a ‘vicious’ dog shall have the option to have said dog
humanely euthanized at his/her expense by the animal shelter or licensed
veterinarian if said owner is unable to comply with the requirements cited
herein.
      9.   The owner of a ‘vicious’ dog shall present to the Police Chief proof
that the owner has procured liability insurance in the amount of not less than
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) covering each ‘vicious’ dog so declared
for any damage or injury that may be caused by such ‘vicious’ dog. The
liability insurance policy shall contain a provision requiring that the Police
Chief be notified immediately by the agent issuing the policy, or by the
company issuing the policy, in the event the insurance policy is canceled,
terminated, or is about to expire. The liability insurance shall be obtained
prior to the issuing the required permit to keep a ‘vicious’ dog within Alamo’s
city limits; and proof of coverage shall be required each year for renewable of
the license to keep their ‘vicious’ dog. (Ord. 187-07-25, 7-15-2025)
5-5-11: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Animals owned or harbored in violation of this code or state law shall
be taken into custody by an Animal Control Officer or other designated official
and impounded. Stray animals shall be subject to be similarly impounded.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any impounded animal,
especially one that is declared as a ‘vicious’ dog, from the animal facility
without complying with said facility’s policies and protocols, plus the City’s
applicable Code conditions,
   C.   If the owner of an impounded animal is known, immediate notice may be
given to him/her. Any impounded animal may be redeemed upon payment or fines,
license fee applicable, care and feeding charges, veterinary charges, rabies
vaccination charges, and such other costs as set forth by the animal facility’s
policies and protocols.
   D.   If such animal is not redeemed within the tenure set forth by the
animal facility’s procedures, it may be deemed abandoned and may be placed for
adoption subject to payment of the license fee where applicable, impoundment
fee, care and feeding charges, veterinary charges, rabies vaccination charges
where applicable, and such other costs as set forth by the animal facility. If
such an animal is not redeemed, it may be humanely euthanized according to the
facility’s normal protocol.
   E.   If the animal is to be available for adoption, it shall be pursuant to
the animal facility’s procedures and protocol.
   F.   Any order of an impounded animal, ‘vicious’ or otherwise, to be
euthanized shall be pursuant to the animal facility’s procedures, policies, and
protocols. (Ord. 187-07-25, 7-15-2025)
CHAPTER 6
ANIMALS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definitions
5-6-2: Animal Control Warden
5-6-3: Rabies Vaccination
5-6-4: Licensing And Tags; Fees
5-6-5: Running At Large Prohibited
5-6-6: Impoundment And Redemption Procedures
5-6-7: Violation And Penalties
5-6-8: Barking Dogs
5-6-9: Maintenance Of Premises Where Dogs And Cats Kept
5-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   DOG: Either a male or female of the canine species, whether altered or not.
   OWNER: Any person owning, harboring or in any way keeping an animal within
the limits of the city.
   RUN AT LARGE: To be free of physical restraint beyond the owner's premises.
Any animal when not upon the premises of its owner and controlled by a leash
held by a competent person shall not be deemed to be running at large.
   STRAY: An animal running at large and without an ascertainable owner. It is
a rebuttable presumption that a cat or dog without a license tag or collar has
no ascertainable owner. (Ord. 07-09-04, 9-7-2004)
5-6-2: ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN:
The chief of police shall designate a special officer to be known as the animal
control warden, whose duty it is to carry out the terms of this chapter and
related activities within the city. It shall be the duty of the animal control
warden to apprehend any dog found running at large as such term is defined in
section
5-6-1 of this chapter contrary to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 10-15-
91B, 10-15-1991)
5-6-3: RABIES VACCINATION:
   A.   Vaccination Required: All dogs within the city limits are required to
be vaccinated against rabies by a licensed veterinarian and shall be issued a
certificate to the effect the dog has been vaccinated. (Ord. 10-15-91B, 10-15-
1991)
   B.   Inspection Of Dogs: The chief of police or any city police officer
shall have the right, at any reasonable time, to inspect any dog to determine
if said dog is vaccinated as required and shall have the authority to enter any
premises for such purpose, and it shall be unlawful for any person to refuse
entrance to the chief of police or any city police officer or to impede,
obstruct or exclude the chief of police or any city police officer when
attempting to enter such premises for the purpose of inspecting such dog and
any person who shall refuse entrance or impede or obstruct the chief of police
or any city police officer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 520, 1967; amd. 1994 Code)
5-6-4: LICENSING AND TAGS; FEES:
   A.   License Required: All dogs kept, harbored or maintained by their owners
in the city shall be licensed and registered if over five (5) months of age.
   B.   Application For License: The owner shall state at the time application
is made for such license and upon forms provided for such purpose, his name and
address and name, breed, color and sex of each dog owned or kept by him. (Ord.
644, 6-7-1977)
   C.   License Fee: Dog licenses shall be issued by the city collector upon
payment of a license tax of two dollars ($2.00) for each male or female dog.
(Ord. 644, 6-7-1977; amd. Ord. 85-07, 6-18-1985; 1994 Code)
   D.   Tags:
      1.   Upon payment of the license fee, the city collector shall issue to
the owner a license certificate and a metallic tag for each dog so licensed.
      2.   The shape of the tag shall be changed every year and shall have a
stamp thereon showing the year for which it was issued and the number
corresponding with the number on the certificate.
      3.   Every owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to
which the license tag must be affixed and shall see that the collar and tag are
constantly worn.
      4.   Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another and no
refund shall be made on any dog license fee because of death of the dog or the
owner's leaving the city before expiration of the license.
      5.   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully take from any dog a
collar or tag, except when said dog is securely confined and with the owner's
consent. (Ord. 644, 6-7-1977; amd. 1994 Code)
   E.   Duplicate Tags: In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate
will be issued by the collector upon presentation of a receipt showing the
payment of the license fee for the current year and the payment of a two dollar
($2.00) fee for such duplicate. (Ord. 644, 6-7-1977; amd. Ord. 85-07, 6-18-
1985; 1994 Code)
   F.   Exemptions From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not be
intended to apply to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the
city, nor to dogs brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any
dog show nor to "seeing eye" dogs properly trained to assist blind persons when
such dogs are actually being used by blind persons for the purpose of aiding
them in going from place to place. (Ord. 644, 6-7-1977)
5-6-5: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow such dog to run
at large within the city limits.
   B.   It being found that the violation hereof relates to the health and
safety of the citizens of the city, it is hereby ordained that any owner,
keeper or custodian of a dog who shall allow such dog to run at large, whether
on public or private property, shall, upon being found guilty thereof in the
municipal court of the city, be subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-
1 of this code. (Ord. 10-15-91B, 10-15-1991; amd. 1994 Code)
5-6-6: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROCEDURES:
   A.   Owners Of Licensed, Vaccinated Dogs; Administration Charge: If the
owner of any dog apprehended under provision of section
5-6-2 of this chapter 1  is immediately located and the dog is otherwise
vaccinated and licensed in accordance with the provisions of ordinances of the
city, it shall be returned to the owner upon the owner's payment to the city of
an administration charge of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the cost of
apprehending and impounding the animal.
   B.   Delivery To Humane Society: If the owner is not immediately located or
the dog is not licensed or vaccinated, then the dog shall be delivered to the
Hidalgo County Humane Society to be held and disposed of by that society in
accordance with its rules and regulations.
   C.   Redemption From Humane Society; Fees And Charges: If the owner of a dog
turned over to the Hidalgo County Humane Society claims such animal at the
Humane Society, the owner shall be required to pay to the Humane Society the
current fee for releasing such animal and, in addition, shall pay the charge of
fifty dollars ($50.00) for the purposes of reimbursing the city for its
services in performance of the duties as required hereunder, before such dog
will be released to the owner. (Ord. 10-15-91B, 10-15-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-6-5 of this chapter.
5-6-7: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Arrest And Citation: In lieu of a standard arrest by the Alamo police
department of any individual for a violation of this chapter, a citation may be
issued, which such citation shall constitute a written notice to appear in
municipal court of the city. Such notice to appear shall be promulgated by the
chief of police and such form shall contain enough information relating to the
identification of the person who has violated this chapter so as to assist in
locating such person should the necessity arise upon breach of promise to
appear. Such citation shall specify in the notice to appear that such person
must appear before the municipal court not less than three (3) days nor more
than fourteen (14) days from the date of issuance of citation.
   B.   Promise To Appear: Such person, in order to secure a release as
provided for in this subsection, must give his written promise to appear in the
municipal court by signing a duplicate of the written notice prepared by the
chief of police. The original of such notice shall be retained by the officer
and forwarded to the court and a copy thereof delivered to the person who is
found to have violated this provision. Thereupon, the person shall be released
from custody.
   C.   False Information: It shall be unlawful for any person, when given a
written notice by any police officer, to appear before municipal court to give
an assumed, fictitious or false name or false place of residence or address
other than the true name and true place of residence or address upon the
request of such officer.
   D.   Appearance Of Counsel: A written promise to appear in court may be
complied with by an appearance of counsel.
   E.   Violation Of Promise To Appear: If any person wilfully violates his
written promise to appear in court as provided for in this section, he shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for a conviction thereof, regardless of the disposition of
the charge upon which he was originally arrested. (Ord. 10-15-91B, 10-15-1991)
5-6-8: BARKING DOGS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to keep any dog in the city which by loud,
frequent or habitual barking or howling shall cause annoyance and disturb the
peace and quiet of any person. Any such person who believes that there has been
a violation of this section shall have the right and it shall be his/her duty
to file a complaint against the owner or keeper of such dog as stipulated in
section
5-6-7 of this chapter, as to whether such alleged loud, frequent or habitual
barking annoyed and disturbed the peace of such person, and, if so, the court
may thereupon declare such loud, barking or howling dog to be a nuisance and
order such dog be removed by its owner or keeper from the city limits. (Ord.
07-09-04, 9-7-2004)
5-6-9: MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES WHERE DOGS AND CATS KEPT:
   A.   Every person keeping any dog or cat in the city shall maintain the area
used or occupied by such animal in a sanitary manner at all times and such area
shall be kept free of offensive odors, flies, rodents and other pests. (Ord.
07-09-04, 9-7-2004)
CHAPTER 7
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-7-1: Restrictions On Consumption Of Alcohol
5-7-2: Soliciting Regulations And Loitering
5-7-3: Intoxicating Glue
5-7-1: RESTRICTIONS ON CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL:
   A.   Consumption In Public: It shall be unlawful for any person to consume
any alcoholic beverages in any of the public parks of the city, except as
follows:
      1.   In connection with family or group picnics. For purposes of this
subsection A, a "picnic" is defined as a gathering of two (2) or more persons
for the purpose of eating a meal and at which the alcoholic beverage is
consumed as part of, or incidental to, that meal.
      2.   Where the city commission of the city has granted by record vote, a
conditional license which the licensee has agreed to, containing certain
conditions and meets the following minimum requirements:
         a.   Application for the license must be in writing, tendered to the
city secretary, with an application fee not to exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00);
         b.   The licensee may be a person or an organization, and if an
organization, must be submitted by an authorized representative;
         c.   Must be issued to be exercised in connection with an activity
sponsored by a locally organized social, civic, sports or recreational
organization with direct ties to or with substantial benefits for citizens of
the city;
         d.   The application shall include the following information:
            (1)   Name, address, phone number, fax number and e-mail address of
the organization and of the individual representative;
            (2)   A summary description of the organization's social, civic,
sports or recreational experience in the city; its membership, if any, its
officers and their addresses;
            (3)   The location(s), dates and times of the proposed use;
            (4)   A detailed description of the social, civic, sports or
recreational activities proposed and their benefits to the citizens of the
city;
            (5)   A sketch of the park location to be used and the placement of
the "beer garden".
            (6)   The "beer garden" shall be a specially designated, cordoned
off location, strictly maintained by licensee throughout the license period at
which alcoholic beverages may be sold and consumed.
         e.   The license granted shall be limited to specific date(s), time(s)
and location(s). (Ord. 14-09-12, 10-12-2012)
   B.   Intoxicated Persons: It shall be unlawful for any intoxicated person to
enter or remain in any park of the city. (Ord. 670, 6-5-1979)
   C.   Penalties: Any person who violates any provision of this section is
guilty of a separate offense for each day or portion of a day during which the
violation is committed, continued or permitted and each such offense is
punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 670, 6-5-1979; amd. 1994 Code)
5-7-2: SOLICITING REGULATIONS AND LOITERING:
   A.   Peddlers And Solicitors: It shall be unlawful for any peddler,
solicitor or any other person who goes on the premises of another person, to
remain on said premises after he/she has been ordered by the owner, tenant,
manager, proprietor, or lessee of such property or any other lawful occupant,
to leave said premises.
   B.   Damaging Landscaping/Private Property: It shall be unlawful for any
person to go upon the premises of another person without the consent of the
occupant or person in charge of said premises; furthermore, it is unlawful for
the un-invited person to break, cut, pull, take or trample upon the property's
flowers, shrubbery, grass or garden vegetables (for example) growing on said
premises; this shall also include any other private property to not be damaged,
broken, and/or taken.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any peddler, solicitor or any other person to
enter upon private premises without authorization and where there is signage to
the effect of 'No Peddlers Allowed' or 'No Solicitations'; such is clear
messaging of such not being permitted, invited, or wanted on said premises.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to request or solicit
for funds for a personal or charitable cause on any sidewalk, street, or other
public or similar semi-public place without a permit being issued by the City
of Alamo's Police Department; said permit shall not have any cost or fee
associated with it; shall be for a maximum of five (5) consecutive calendar
days (no extensions given regardless of personal or event conditions); and
shall be an 'Annual Permit being that no permit shall be given unless twelve
(12) consecutive months have intervened between permit periods. In discerning
whether a permit shall be issued or not, the following will be undertaken:
      1.   Inquiries as to the bona fide legitimacy of the proposed
solicitation to maximize scrutiny that any funds collected may not be used for
illicit or illegal purposes;
      2.   The PD will secure valid identifications of those soliciting,
inclusive of gathering street addresses and other contact data should the need
arise to alert them of special traffic considerations;
      3.   The Police Department shall instruct the applicant-solicitor that
courtesy and respect shall be insisted upon when approaching any traffic
motorist; should misconduct reflecting aggressive soliciting or threatening/
menacing dialogue with motorists be documented, filmed, or witnessed, then the
PD may be provided such evidence upon which the PD shall discern whether or not
to revoke the permit issued; if revoked due to the severity of misconduct be
determined, then no other permit for the solicitor at any other place in Alamo
shall be considered until twelve (12) consecutive months have elapsed;
      4.   The Police Department shall inquire as to the proposed soliciting
location(s), and any permit issued shall be specifically for the locations
discussed, i.e., no permit shall be perceived as 'transferable' to other
location(s);
      5.   The Police Department shall assess the traffic safety issues of the
site-specified location(s) and determine appropriateness to the applicant-
solicitor based on their measure of awareness and maturity;
      6.   The Police Department will inquire of their plan(s) for incidental
usage of sanitary facilities and determine that such plan is safe, accessible
and reasonable; also, if the sanitary facilities are not available, e.g.,
business place is 'closed', and no other such facilities are nearby nor
available, then any issued permit shall be temporarily suspended until such
sanitary facilities are available;
      7.   The time-frame for such solicitation will be explained by the PD to
the applicant-solicitor; to maximize safety, there shall be no soliciting
authorized after daylight hours transition to dusk or un-lit hours;
      8.   The Police Department shall inquire as to the applicant-solicitor's
plan to 'clean-up' prior to departing, e.g., water bottles, etc.; on this
point, should there be photo-documented and time-stamped evidence of littered
remnants due to post-solicitation, then the permit may be revoked and shall not
be reinstated until after a littering citation fine shall first be paid to the
City of Alamo, Texas; and
      9.   Any other special conditions that may need to be determined.
      10.   After acquiring the details of the matter, the Police Department
will determine whether or not to issue the permit and the traffic-safety
conditions imposed, as well as the number of days/hours that will be
authorized. It is declared that issuing such a permit, based on the interview
and details of the solicitation, will not place at risk the City of Alamo for
any traffic mishap that may occur since there's a plethora of variables
involving driver-skilled levels, pedestrian influx, solicitor awareness, and/or
ever-changing weather conditions whereby such applicant-solicitor(s) may still
voluntarily place themselves at higher risk (e.g., as in a 'street
solicitation' setting).
   E.   Loitering is defined as standing or waiting around idly or without
apparent purpose. It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to loiter in,
on, or near the proximity of any private or public place when such loitering
may be accompanied by activity or circumstances that induce probable cause for
alarm or concern for the (physical, emotional, psychological) safety and
general well-being of persons or for the security of private or public
property, in the surrounding area where the loitering is lingering.
   F.   It shall be unlawful to have a person or persons lingering in the
street, sidewalks, or vicinity of a residence or vehicle, where there is no
apparent business or employment-related need to do so without the permission,
consent, or knowledge of the owner(s) or tenant(s) of nearby structures.
   G.   Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any person(s) to systematically
be checking doors, windows, or other means of un-authorized access to vehicles,
residences, or other buildings.
   H.   Anyone who violates the provisions of these regulations shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and may be fined as set out in these Code of Ordinances.
(Ord., 7-2-1963; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 111-7-24, 7-16-2024)
5-7-3: INTOXICATING GLUE:
   A.   Sale To Minors Prohibited: Except as otherwise provided herein, no
person shall sell, offer for sale, deliver or give to any individual under the
age of seventeen (17) years any glue or cement commonly known as airplane glue,
plastic cement, household cement, cement or any similar substance, if such glue
or cement contains one or more of the following volatile solvents:
      1.   Toluol.
      2.   Hexane.
      3.   Trichlorethylene.
      4.   Acetone.
      5.   Teluene.
      6.   Ethyl acetate.
      7.   Methyl ethyle ketone.
      8.   Trichloroethane.
      9.   Isopropanol.
      10.   Methyl isobutyl ketone.
      11.   Methyl cellosolve acetate.
      12.   Cyclehexanone.
   B.   Exemption From Provisions: The provisions of subsection A of this
section shall not apply where the glue, cement, plastic cement, household
cement, cement or any other similar substance is sold, delivered or given
simultaneously with and as a part of a kit used for the construction of model
airplanes, model boats, model automobiles, model trains or other similar
models.
   C.   Inhaling Glue Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to inhale
any glue or cement commonly known as airplane glue, plastic cement, household
cement, paint, spray paint, lacquer spray, hair spray or any similar substance
containing one or more of the solvents named in subsection A of this section
with the intent of obtaining intoxicating or narcotic effect thereby.
   D.   Violation And Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 558, 12-31-1970; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 8
MINORS 1
SECTION:
5-8-1: Curfew Regulations
5-8-2: Parental Responsibility
 
Notes
  1. See also Section
1 5-7-3 of this Title for sale of intoxicating glue to minors and Section
  5-9-3 of this Title for sexually oriented businesses and obscene material.
5-8-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Findings Of Fact; Purpose:
      1.   This Section sets forth regulations for the conduct of minors on
streets at night. These regulations encompass prevailing community standards
for the purpose of furthering the good of minors, of advancing family
responsibility and of promoting public safety and welfare.
      2.   The Board of Commissioners of the City has determined that the
curfew meets a very real need and is a significant factor in protecting
juveniles and minimizing juvenile delinquency. The Board of Commissioners also
finds that there are persons upon the streets of the City who represent an
influence that is detrimental to the health, safety, welfare and morals of
minors, considering their peculiar vulnerability and their inability to make
critical decisions in an informed and mature manner and that minors who fall
under this influence, in turn, represent a detriment to the health, safety,
welfare and morals of the community as a whole and lead to increased crime and
fear among citizens for their safety and welfare and that of their minor
children. The Board of Commissioners also finds that commercial recreational
facilities are very limited in the City.
      3.   The curfew hours cited by this Section reflect the community
standard of the appropriate hour for cessation of outdoor activities by minors
on the street. The curfew also takes into account the hours which present the
highest risk for nocturnal crimes and for the congregating of minors with the
potential risks incident to immaturity.
      4.   The Board of Commissioners has determined that parental
responsibility for the whereabouts of minors is a community norm. As parental
control increases, the likelihood of juvenile delinquency decreases. Therefore,
legal sanctions to enforce parental responsibility have been shown to be
significantly effective in minimizing the incidence of juvenile delinquency and
in protecting the minors and the community at large.
      5.   The Board of Commissioners hereby determines that the curfew for
minors will accomplish under local conditions the purpose stated herein. The
Board of Commissioners is mindful that minors in the City have the right to use
the public streets and ways, to exercise their rights to free speech and
association, to travel, to be employed and to be involved in school, church and
other association activities and find that any restriction upon these rights
are essential for the purposes set herein and are limited to meeting the
essential needs found herein and are otherwise scrupulously protected herein.
      6.   Therefore, the Board of Commissioners finds that this curfew Section
is necessary and that it serves the community's interest in protecting our
minors from criminal and other unhealthy influence.
   B.   Definitions: When used in this Section, the following words and terms,
unless the context indicates a different meaning, shall have the meanings given
as follows:
   CITY: The City of Alamo, County of Hidalgo, Texas.
   MINOR: Any person under the age of seventeen (17) years of age.
   PARENT: Any person having legal custody of a minor: a) as a natural or
adoptive parent; b) as a legal guardian; c) as a parent who stands in loco
parentis; or d) as a person to whom custody has been given by order of a court
of competent jurisdiction.
   REMAIN: To stay behind, to tarry and to stand unnecessarily upon the
streets, including, but not limited to, the congregating of groups (or of
interacting minors) in which any minors involved would not be using the streets
for ordinary or serious purposes such as mere passage or going home. Within
this meaning, this Section does not prohibit mere presence, but is intended as
a curfew ordinance prohibiting "remaining".
   STREET: A way or place of whatever nature, opened to the use of the public
as a matter of right for purposes of vehicular travel or in the case of a
sidewalk thereof, for pedestrian travel. The term "street" includes the legal
right of way, including but not limited to the traffic lanes, curbs, sidewalks,
whether paved or unpaved and any grass plots or other ground found within the
legal right of way of the street. The term "street" applies irrespective of
what it may be called or informally named, whether alley, avenue, road,
roadway, highway or otherwise.
   TIME OF NIGHT: The prevailing standard of time, whether Central Standard
Time or Central Daylight Savings time, generally observed at that hour by the
public in the City. It shall be prima facie the time then observed in the City
administrative offices and police station.
   C.   Curfew Established: It shall be unlawful for any person under seventeen
(17) years of age to be or remain in or upon the streets within the City at
night during the period beginning at ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and ending six
o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   D.   Exceptions: It shall be a defense to the accusation of unlawful conduct
pursuant to subsection C of this Section for the accused minor to demonstrate
that he was:
      1.   Accompanied by a Parent: Accompanied by a parent or the adult spouse
of such minor.
      2.   Accompanied by Adult: Accompanied by an adult authorized by a parent
of such minor to take said parent's place in accompanying said minor for a
designated period of time and purpose within a specified area.
      3.   Exercising First Amendment Rights: When exercising first amendment
rights protected by the United States Constitution, such as the free exercise
of religion, freedom of speech and the right of assembly. Prior to engaging in
the exercise of such first amendment rights at a time that would otherwise be
in violation of this curfew ordinance, such minor shall first deliver a written
communication, signed by such minor that he will be on the streets at night
(during hours when the curfew regulations are otherwise applicable to said
minor) in the exercise of first amendment rights specified in such
communication.
      4.   Returning Home: Returning home, by a direct route from a school
activity or an activity of a religious or other voluntary association of which
prior notice, indicating the place and probable time of termination, has been
given, in writing, to and duly filed for immediate reference by the Chief of
Police or the officer assigned by him on duty at the police station, thus
encouraging (here as in other exceptional situations) conduct on the part of
the minor involved in such activities a fair balance for the conflicting
interest of the minor and the interest of the City in regulating the behavior
of such minor.
      5.   Authorized Nighttime Activities: Engaged in nighttime activities
organized by the schools and attracting more minors that can readily be dealt
with on an individual special permit basis. In such cases, such nighttime
activity shall have been organized by or through the schools or other similar
organization in a regular course.
      6.   Employment Card: In possession of a certified card of employment,
renewable each calendar month, dated or reissued not more than forty five (45)
days previously, signed by the employee and the Chief of Police and briefly
identifying the minor, the address of his home and of his place of employment
and his hours of employment. Possession of said certified card shall be
sufficient to exempt such minor from the restriction of this Section if such
minor was in fact engaged in or traveling to or from such employment in
accordance with the hours indicated by such certified card.
      7.   Travelling: Involved in interstate or intrastate motor vehicle
travel, with parental consent. This Section specifically exempts interstate
travel beginning or ending in the City. This Section does not exempt travel
merely in or around the City.
   E.   Parental Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for a parent having legal
custody of a minor knowingly to permit or by insufficient control to allow such
minor to be or remain upon any City street under circumstances not constituting
an exception to or otherwise outside the scope of this curfew Section. The term
"knowingly" includes knowledge that a parent should reasonably be expected to
have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in that parent's legal custody. It
shall be no defense that a parent was completely indifferent to the activities
or conduct on whereabouts of such minor.
   F.   Police Procedures:
      1.   Application Of Provisions: The prohibition enacted by this curfew
Section shall apply only to juveniles as defined by the Texas Family Code
(title 3) 1 .
      2.   General Procedure: A police officer of the City, upon finding or
having attention called to any minor in the street in prima facie violation of
this curfew Section, should follow the complete Police Department juvenile
procedures, insofar as those procedures have been approved by the Hidalgo
County Juvenile Court(s). In the absence of convincing evidence such as a birth
certificate, a police officer on the street shall, on the first instance, use
his best judgment in determining age. In the following Police Department
juvenile procedures, a police officer must act in accordance with the Texas
Family Code 2  as it is now enacted or may be hereafter amended.
      3.   First Offense Written Notice: In the case of a first violation by a
minor, the juvenile officer or other designated police officer shall send to a
parent written notice of said violation by certified mail, with a warning that
any subsequent violation may result in enforcement of parental responsibility
and of applicable penalties.
      4.   Minors Under Ten: If a police officer takes into custody, for
violation of this curfew Section, a minor who is discovered to be under the age
of ten (10) years, such minor shall not therefor be accused of unlawful conduct
pursuant to this Section. Instead, the officer is to release such minor to his
parent, guardian, custodian or other responsible adult as soon as practicable
pursuant to the Alamo Police Department juvenile procedures. This subsection
shall not be construed as a defense to prosecution of the parent of such minor
charged with an offense under subsection E of this Section.
   G.   Referral: Any minor who shall violate any of the provisions of this
curfew Section more than two (2) times may be referred by the juvenile officer
to the Hidalgo County Juvenile Probation Department for processing as a child
having engaged in conduct indicating a need for supervision. In making any such
referral the juvenile officer shall follow the appropriate Police Department
juvenile procedures.
   H.   Penalties: If, after notice pursuant to subsection F3 of this Section
of a first violation by a minor, a parent violates subsection E of this
Section, in connection with a second violation by said minor, this shall be
treated as a first offense by the parents. Upon conviction for such first
parental offense, and subsequent offenses, a parent shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 91-04, 4-29-1991; amd. 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Family Code §51.02.
2 2. V.T.C.A., Family Code §51.01 et seq.
5-8-2: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: When used in this Section the following words shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them:
   CHILD: A person under eighteen (18) years of age who is not and has not been
married or who has not had his disabilities of minority removed for general
purposes.
   PARENT: The mother, a man as to whom the child is legitimate, or an adopted
mother or father, a court appointed guardian or conservator or other person
eighteen (18) years of age or older, authorized by the parent, by a court
order, or by the court-appointed guardian or conservator to have the care and
custody of a child.
   B.   Offense: It shall be unlawful for a parent of a child to fail to repair
or pay for any property damage proximately caused by: 1) the negligent conduct
of the child if the conduct is reasonably attributable to the negligent failure
of the parent to exercise control and reasonable discipline of the child; or 2)
the wilful and malicious conduct of a child who is at least twelve (12) years
of age but under eighteen (18) years of age.
   C.   Penalty: A person violating this Section shall be guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 8-16-94B, 9-20-
1994)
CHAPTER 9
OBSCENITY
SECTION:
5-9-1: Definitions
5-9-2: Location Restrictions
5-9-3: Minors
5-9-4: Prohibited Acts and Conditions
5-9-5: Permits and Licenses Restricted
5-9-6: Penalty
5-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter and its attendant provisions, the following
terms shall be respectively defined as follows:
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: Any location at which a business is being
conducted or at which entertainment is being provided to the public.
   FEE: Any compensation, direct or indirect, whether monetary or not.
HE: In the appropriate circumstance, refers to either a male or female.
   MATERIAL: Anything tangible that is capable of being used or adapted to
arouse interest, whether through the medium of reading, observation, sound or
in any other manner, but does not include an actual three dimensional (3-D)
obscene device.
   MEASUREMENTS: For the purpose of this Chapter, shall be made in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the nearest
portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises of an adult
commercial establishment to the nearest property line of a church, public
school, private school, City-owned real property or a district restricted to
residential use under the Zoning Title 1 .
   MINOR: A person seventeen (17) years of age or younger.
   OBSCENE: Material performance and/or device that:
   A.   The average person, applying contemporary community standards, would
find that taken as a whole appeals to the prurient interest in sex;
   B.   Depicts and describes:
      1.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate
sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including sexual
intercourse, sodomy and sexual bestiality; or
      2.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of masturbation,
excretory functions, sadism, masochism, lewd exhibition of the genitals, the
male or female genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal, covered
male genitals in a discernibly turgid state or a device designed and marketed
as useful primarily for stimulation of the human genital organs; and
   C.   Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political and
scientific value.
   OBSCENE DEVICE: A device, including a dildo or artificial vagina, designed
or marketed as useful primarily for the stimulation of human genital organs.
   OFFENSIVE: The work in which the representations appear, taken as a whole,
appeals to the prurient interest and patently depicts or portrays the
prohibited sexually explicit material in a manner which, taken as a whole,
lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   PATENTLY OFFENSIVE: So offensive on its face as to affront current community
standards of decency.
   PERFORMANCE: A play, motion picture, dance or other exhibit performed before
an audience.
   PERSON: An individual, corporation or association. As used herein, the term
shall refer to a male or female party.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL: Any campus, grounds or buildings of an institution for the
teaching or instruction of children between the ages of three (3) years to
twelve (12) years of age, said institution being a nonprofit school owned,
controlled, operated and conducted by a bona fide religious, denominational,
eleemosynary or similar institution exempt from property taxation under the
laws of the state of Texas.
   PROMOTE: To manufacture, sell, give, provide, lend, mail, deliver, transfer,
transmit, publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate or to offer or agree to
do the same for purpose of resale.
   PUBLIC SCHOOL: Any campus, grounds or buildings of an institution for
teaching or instruction which is a part of the Pharr-San Juan-Alamo Independent
School District or any other independent school district created under the laws
of the state of Texas situated wholly or partly within the city limits of the
city of Alamo, Texas.
   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: The act of human or animal masturbation, bestiality, oral
intercourse, anal intercourse, human-animal intercourse, excretory functions,
homosexual acts, direct physical stimulation or touching of clothed or
unclothed genitals or pubic areas of the human male or female, flagellation or
torture by or upon a person in the context of a sexual relationship or sexual
stimulation which is conducted in public or where it is open to public view or
for the entertainment of observers or for a fee of any type.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL: Any pictorial or written material depicting
human sexual intercourse, human or animal masturbation, bestiality, oral
intercourse, anal intercourse, human-animal intercourse, excretory functions,
homosexual acts, direct physical stimulation or touching of clothed or
unclothed genitals or pubic areas of the human male or female, flagellation or
torture by or upon a person in the context of a sexual relationship or sexual
stimulation. The material shall be judged without regard to any covering which
may be affixed or printed over the material in order to obscure genital areas
in a depiction otherwise falling within the definition of this chapter. Works
of art or of anthropological significance are not included within the
definition of this chapter. (Ord. 1984-11-20, 11-20-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
5-9-2: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No sexual activities shall be engaged in or displayed within one
thousand feet (1,000') of a church, private or public school, any city owned
property or within six hundred feet (600') of the outside boundaries to
residential use under the zoning title 1 .
   B.   No one shall display their genital areas or the buttocks of a male or
female or the breast of a female to public view for a fee or the entertainment
of a group of two (2) or more observers or at any commercial establishment
within one thousand feet (1,000') of a church, private or public school, any
city owned property within six hundred feet (600') of the outside boundaries,
as established in the zoning title, of a district restricted to residential use
under the zoning title. (Ord. 1984-11-20, 11-20-1984)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
5-9-3: MINORS:
   A.   No sexual activities shall be engaged in or displayed in any commercial
establishment frequented by minors or within six hundred feet (600') of the
boundary line of a property on which an establishment frequented by minors is
located.
   B.   No one shall display their genital area or the buttocks of a male or
female or the breast of a female in the public view for a fee or the
entertainment of a group of two (2) or more observers or at any commercial
establishment frequented by minors or within six hundred feet (600') of the
boundary line of a property on which an establishment frequented by minors is
located. (Ord. 1984-11-20, 11-20-1984; amd. Ord. 31-10-01, 10-16-2001)
   C.   Respecting the exhibition, provision or promotion of any harmful
material and/or devices, it is a defense to prosecution under this section
that:
      1.   The exhibition, provision or promotion was by a person having
scientific, educational, government or other similar justification; or
      2.   The exhibition, provision or promotion was to a minor who was
accompanied by a consenting parent, guardian or spouse; or
      3.   The exhibition, provision or promotion was by a person who did not
know or could not have reasonably known or ascertained that the person to whom
said transaction was directed was a minor.
   D.   Respecting the exhibition, provision or promotion of any harmful
material and/or devices, it is a violation of this chapter if a person falsely
represents that he is the consenting parent, guardian or spouse of a minor.
(Ord. 1984-11-20, 11-20-1984)
5-9-4: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
A person commits a violation of this chapter if knowing its content and
character is harmful or obscene:
   A.   He exhibits, provides or promotes, whether or not for wholesale, any
harmful or obscene material or device to another person; or
   B.   He exhibits any harmful or obscene material or device in a place where
a minor might reasonably be expected to be present or invited as a part of the
general public and observe, notice or otherwise view said exhibitions; or
   C.   He attempts to do or accomplish any of the acts prohibited in
subsection A or B of this section. (Ord. 1984-11-20, 11-20-1984)
5-9-5: PERMITS AND LICENSES RESTRICTED:
No permit or conditional use permit or other license shall be granted by the
city to anyone in violation of this chapter. Any permit, conditional use permit
or license theretofore granted by the city shall be terminated upon the
determination that such party is in violation of this chapter by any court,
whether it is a record court or not. In the event of an appeal of such
determination, this provision will be suspended only upon the posting of a
twenty five thousand dollar ($25,000.00) surety bond with the city secretary,
conditioned upon a final determination that such person was not in violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 1984-11-20, 11-20-1984)
5-9-6: PENALTY:
A person violating this chapter shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 1984-11-20, 11-20-1984; amd. 1994 Code)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
STATE TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Adoption of State Traffic Regulations
6-1-1: ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
There are hereby adopted by the City the State traffic regulations, Vernon's
Annotated Civil Statutes, article 6701d et seq., which regulations are adopted
by reference as if fully set forth at length herein. Three (3) copies of said
regulations shall be and remain on file in the office of the City Secretary.
(1994 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2: Enforcement Of Provisions
6-2-3: Application Of Provisions; Exemptions
6-2-4: Authority To Erect Stop Signs
6-2-5: Regulation Of Through Traffic
6-2-6: Funeral And Other Processions
6-2-7: Traffic Citations
6-2-8: Truck Routes
6-2-9: Motorist Induced Waves During Flooding Conditions
6-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this title, shall for the purpose
of this title have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
 
                                  All signs, signals, markings and devices not
                                  inconsistent with this title placed or
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES: erected by authority of a public body or
                                  official having jurisdiction for the purpose
                                  of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
                                  All signs, signals, markings and devices
                                  consistent with this Title that are installed
                                  or erected by authority of the Board of
                                  Commissioners for the purpose of regulating,
                                  warning, or guiding traffic. It is noted that
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGN OR DEVICE:   such traffic control signs or devices may
                                  also include those properly installed by
                                  others as required during the subdivision
                                  plat approval process wherein newly approved
                                  streets were reviewed and approved by the
                                  Board of Commissioners.
                                  Any device, whether manually, electrically or
                                  mechanically operated, by which traffic is
TRAFFIC CONTROL SIGNAL:           alternately directed to stop and proceed.
                                  (Ord. 553, 9-8-1970; amd. Ord. 11.02.23, 2-7-
                                  2023)
 
6-2-2: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Enforcement Of Provisions:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the police department of the city to enforce
the provisions of this title. Officers of the police department are hereby
authorized to direct all traffic either in person or by means of visible and/or
audible signals in conformance with the provisions of this title; provided,
that in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department or fire department may
direct traffic, as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of
this title.
      2.   The Board of Commissioners is hereby empowered to adopt traffic
safety regulations necessary to make the provisions of this Title effective;
and to also adopt such regulations to safely regulate traffic-related
emergencies or other special conditions affecting motorists.
   B.   Obedience To Police Officers: No person shall wilfully fail or refuse
to comply with any lawful order or direction of any police officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic. (Ord. 553, 9-8-1970;
amd. Ord. 11.02.23, 2-7-2023)
6-2-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Application Of Provisions: The provisions of this Title applicable to
motorists upon the City’s highways and streets shall apply to the drivers of
all motor vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this State, or any
county, city, town, district, or any other political subdivision of this State,
subject to such specific exceptions as are set forth in this Title with
reference to authorized emergency responding vehicles. These provisions shall
also be applicable to drivers of motor vehicles that may be from another
country such as Mexico, Canada, etc.
   B.   Exemption From Provisions: The driver of any vehicle operated by the
fire department or police department is exempt from the provisions of this
title when responding to an emergency call.
   C.   Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to
an emergency or upon approaching a red or stop signal or any stop signs, shall
slow down as necessary for safety but may proceed cautiously past such red
light or stop sign or signal. At other times drivers of authorized emergency
vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop sign or signal. This exemption shall
not, however, protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequences of a
reckless disregard of the safety of others.
      2.   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any
special privilege under this Title except when such vehicle is operated in
response to an emergency call or in immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected
violator of the law. (Ord. 553, 9-8-70; amd. Ord. 11.02.23, 2-7-2023)
6-2-4: AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS 1 :
There may be installed at such points on public or private streets in the City
as may be directed by city ordinance(s) approved by the Board of Commissioners,
appropriate traffic control signs notifying motorists to come to a full stop.
Such signs, devices, or markers are to bear the word “STOP”, and be provided
with the letters of a size that are clearly legible/visible from a distance of
at least one hundred feet (100') along the street upon which the STOP sign is
placed. All signs shall be illuminated at night, or so placed as to be
illuminated by street lights or by headlights of approaching motor vehicles.
Subdivisions approved by the Board of Commissioners that are built/recorded
with an internal street system shall install traffic control signage, pursuant
to city policy as to height, location, quality, etc.; such signage will be
considered ‘Approved’ by the City of Alamo since the platted street systems
would have been (previously) approved by the Board of Commissioners in the
normal course of action. Any such development that followed this process and
had signage installed within its’ boundaries are hereby retroactively Approved
as to the signs’ validity for enforcement. (Ord. 553, 9-8-70; amd. Ord.
11.02.23, 2-7-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6-4-2 of this Title for designation of stop signs.
6-2-5: REGULATION OF THROUGH TRAFFIC 1 :
   A.   Designations:
      1.   Should there ever be a traffic safety need to designate a public
alley as a one-way alley or as a nonthrough alley, the appropriate city
departments shall first examine the matter; and then present such examined
findings to the Board of Commissioners in a public hearing setting where after
and if warranted, the Board of Commissioners may approve the ordinance
indicating such. When approving action is taken by the Board of Commissioners
on such matters, the City’s Public Works Department shall install the
appropriate signage as soon as reasonably possible.
      2.   The one-way alleys or parts thereof located within the City shall be
according to the directions as so designated on a diagram or diagrams
heretofore adopted and on file in the office of the City Secretary, and it
shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle to operate such vehicle to
travel in any other direction other than as specified in such one-way alley.
   B.   Use of Nonthrough Traffic Alleys: Whenever alleys or parts thereof are
so designated as nonthrough traffic alleys, no person shall drive any vehicle
on such alley where the sole purpose of driving on such alley is to travel from
one through street, highway or through alleyway to have access to another
through street, highway or through alleyway. (Ord. 88-05, 5-15-88; 1994 Code;
amd. Ord. 11.02.23, 2-7-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  6-4-3 of this Title for designation of through streets.
6-2-6: FUNERAL AND OTHER PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Driving Through Funeral or Other Processions: No driver of a vehicle
shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously
designated at intersections where traffic is controlled by traffic-control
signals or police officers.
   B.   Drivers in a Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other procession
shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and
shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as it is practical and safe.
   C.   Funeral Processions to be Identified: A funeral composed of a
procession of vehicles shall be identified as such by display upon the outside
of each vehicle of a pendant or other identifying insignia or by such other
methods as may be determined and designated by the traffic division. (Ord. 553,
9-8-70)
6-2-7: TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
   A.   Parking Citations 1 : Any driver of a motor vehicle who unlawfully
neglects to answer to the charges set forth in a written notice affixed to such
motor vehicle by a police officer as provided by any ordinance of the City is
guilty of a misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of the charge for which
said notice was originally given.
   B.   False Information on Notice to Appear: It shall be unlawful for any
person, when giving a written promise to appear or given a written notice by a
police officer to appear before the municipal court of the city, to answer to
an offense against any law of this state or any ordinance of the city to give
an assumed or fictitious name or a false place of residence or address or any
other than the true name and the true place of his residence or address, upon
the request of such officer. (Ord. 553, 9-8-1970)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 6-3-6B of this Title.
6-2-8: TRUCK ROUTES:
   A.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle and motor vehicle which singularly
or in combination has either an overall height in excess of one hundred twenty
inches (120"), or an overall length in excess of one hundred forty inches
(140"), or an overall width in excess of eighty inches (80").
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL: A substance or material in a quantity and form which may
pose a risk to health and safety or property. Hazardous materials may include
products which are described as explosive, radioactive, etiologic agents,
flammable or combustible liquids or solids, poisons, oxidizing or corrosive and
compressed gases.
   HOUSE TRAILER: A vehicle equipped with living quarters which may include
sleeping and food preparation facilities and which is capable of being moved
from one location to another over a public highway by being pulled by a motor
vehicle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every "vehicle", as herein defined, which is propelled by an
engine or motor. Without limitations, and by way of example only, this motor
vehicle includes truck-tractors, trailers, semitrailers, and house trailers as
the latter and defined herein.
   SEMITRAILER: Every vehicle of the trailer type, so designated or used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight and that of
its load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle.
   STREET: Any public right of way within the corporate limits of the city of
Alamo being primarily for accommodating vehicular traffic, including any
unpaved portions thereof. This definition shall also include private streets.
   TRUCK: Any motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property with a manufacturer rated carrying capacity
exceeding ten thousand (10,000) pounds and is not intended to include those
trucks commonly known as pickup trucks, panel delivery trucks and carry-all
trucks, unless they are carrying hazardous material.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed or used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load independently or any
part of the weight of the drawn load or vehicle, except that the term includes
a motor vehicle that is otherwise a truck-tractor, that is engaged with a
semitrailer in the transportation of automobiles or boats, and that transports
motor vehicles or boats on part of the truck-tractor.
   VEHICLE: Every mechanical device, in, upon or by which any person or
property may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, which may be
required to be registered or licensed under the laws of this state including
motor vehicles, but excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
   B.   Established:
      1.   All state maintained roadways are designated as truck routes, unless
signed otherwise. Truck traffic on city maintained roadways is prohibited,
unless signed otherwise.
      2.   The operation or parking of any truck, semitrailer or road tractor
on any street within the city other than those streets or highways specifically
designated in subsection C of this section is expressly prohibited and declared
to be unlawful. However, it is hereby declared reasonable and permissible and
shall not be a violation to the Truck Route Code to have motor vehicles, as
defined in ‘A’ above, to EXCLUSIVELY travel on a city street to/from a
commercially or industrially zoned place to store/park their motor vehicle(s)
when such place is substantially within two-hundred feet (200') from a city-
approved truck route; and where said street’s pavement surface has a minimum
pavement width of thirty feet (30').
      3.   The prohibition set forth in this section does not apply to the
operation of trucks, semitrailers and road tractors traveling on streets other
than those truck routes designated in this section for the purposes of pick up
and delivery to specific commercial locations, or to obtain commercial service,
commercial repairs, commercial lodging or fuel in the normal course of business
and that there is no alternate designated truck route of access to such
location requiring a stop within the city. The prohibition of using non-truck
route streets shall also not be applicable should there be a matter of
temporary emergency that may be arise due to acts of God, or other unforeseen
(semi) emergency circumstances, that may impede designated truck routes from
being accessible or used; or should there be a tractor trailer business that
may have its office in the County’s (non-city) jurisdiction that may require
incidental and necessary usage of non-designated truck route streets and where
there are no reasonable alternate routes available. All vehicles departing from
an established truck route under one of the stated exceptions shall return to a
truck route by the most direct means practical so as to minimize usage of non-
truck route streets.
      4.   In any prosecution for any violation of this section, it shall not
be necessary for the State or city to prove that the person charged with such
violation was not operating a truck on such prohibited portion or portions of
such non-truck route street for the purposes outlined in subsection B3 of this
section. Any person charged with a violation of this section shall have the
right to prove that the operation of such truck on such portion or portions of
such non-truck route streets was for the purpose(s) as outlined in subsection
B3 of this section. As a part of the City’s prosecutorial process, it is
expected that the Police Chief and/or the City Manager may confer over the
components of the city’s evidentiary material with the City Prosecutor to
maximize assurance that the intent and integrity of the truck route provisions
are complied with, as reasonably dictated by the myriad of circumstances that
may be assessed.
      5.   The public works director shall place and maintain traffic control
signs evidencing the prohibition of truck traffic on the portion or portions of
city streets set out in this section, as provided for in subsection B1 of this
section, which such signs shall conform to current standards as set out in the
“Texas Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices” with regard to shape, size,
color, letter size and style, mounting and location.
      6.   The operation of truck or commercial motor vehicles owned and
operated by the city of Alamo or any of its lawful agents, while engaged in a
legitimate governmental or proprietary function of the city of Alamo, such as,
but not limited to, public works, police and fire activities within the city;
or
      7.   To comply with an official order of the city of Alamo, or of an
authorized governmental or public authority are exempted.
   C.   Routes Established: There are hereby established and created certain
truck and hazardous material routes through and around the city for all trucks,
semitrailers, road tractors or any vehicle carrying hazardous or nonhazardous
materials entering or exiting the city, as follows:
      1.   Primary Hazardous Materials Route: Those routes designated for
hazardous materials traffic passing through the city with no local
destinations.
         a.   (West to east) U.S. Expressway 83 from Cesar Chavez Road to
Whalen Road.
      2.   Primary Truck Routes: Those routes designated for truck traffic
passing through the city with no local destinations.
         a.   (West to east) U.S. Expressway 83 from Cesar Chavez Road to
Border Road.
         b.   (West to east) U.S. Business 83 from Cesar Chavez Road to Whalen
Road.
         c.   (West to east) SH 495 from Cesar Chavez Road to Whalen Road.
         d.   (North to South) FM 907 from Eldora Road (or northernmost city
limits perimeter of FM 907) to U.S. Highway 281.
      3.   Secondary Truck Routes: Those routes designated for truck traffic
entering the city with local destinations.
         a.   (West to east) U.S. Expressway 83 frontage from Cesar Chavez Road
to Border Road.
         b.   (West to east) U.S. Business 83 from Cesar Chavez Road to Whalen
Road.
         c.   (North to south) FM 907 from SH 495 to U.S. Business 83. (Ord.
03-08-04, 8-3-2004; amd. Ord. 19-03-22, 3-1-2022; Ord. 53-08-22, 8-2-2022)
6-2-9: MOTORIST INDUCED WAVES DURING FLOODING CONDITIONS:
   A.   No person shall operate a motor-powered vehicle in a manner that causes
waves during flooded street conditions whereby such waves pushes flood waters
into residential or commercial structures (or under such structures if on pad
and pier); thus magnifying flood damage to said structures.
   B.   A ‘Flooded Street’ is defined as a public right-of-way (inclusive of
sidewalk areas) having a significant depth and volume of standing water levels
being approximately 1' to 10' from residential or commercial structures. The
definition of ‘Flooded Street’ shall also include private streets.
   C.   Public vehicles that are monitoring, responding, and/or providing
needful life-safety services to the community during such flooded street
conditions shall be exempt from these provisions in the incidental discharge of
their duties. Also, authorized city personnel that may be using their private
vehicles in similar discharge of their duties during such emergencies shall
also be exempt.
   D.   Any person who willfully, intentionally, or inadvertently violates
these provisions to induce driver-induced waves magnifying property damage,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to fine not to be less
than $100 or not more than $500 per each violation. (Ord. 11.02.23, 2-7-2023)
CHAPTER 3
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Authority to Regulate
6-3-2: Handicapped Parking
6-3-3: Bus Stops, Cab Stands and Loading Zones
6-3-4: Prohibited Parking Places
6-3-5: Method of Parking
6-3-6: Illegally Parked Vehicles; Citation
6-3-7: Impoundment of Illegally Parked Vehicles
6-3-8: Parking Of Certain Vehicles Restricted
6-3-1: AUTHORITY TO REGULATE:
The Board of Commissioners, from time to time, may approve, by ordinance,
regulations providing for the prohibition of parking on a City street or alley.
(Ord. 3-17-92, 3-19-92, eff. 3-17-92)
6-3-2: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   A.   Designation of Spaces: The City Manager is hereby authorized to
designate any parking space or area on any public street or in any parking lot
maintained by the City for public use, for the exclusive use of properly
designated vehicles transporting temporarily or permanently disabled persons.
Vehicles used for transporting disabled persons, as provided for under this
Chapter, shall meet the registration requirements of Vernon's Annotated Civil
Statutes article 6675a-5e.1, sections 1 through 4, and such parking areas shall
be marked as required by subsection B of this Section.
   B.   Rules and Regulations: The City Manager is hereby authorized and
directed to establish rules and regulations setting out the minimum dimensions
and identification markers for delineating exclusive parking spaces for
vehicles transporting temporary or permanently disabled persons, which such
rules shall at least comply with the rules promulgated by the State purchasing
and general service commission relating thereto; provided, however, such rules
may require greater designation criteria than required by the State purchasing
and general service commission. A copy of such rules shall be kept on file with
the City Manager and the City Secretary.
   C.   Private Parking:
      1.   Nonconformance with Rules: Any person who owns or controls private
property used for parking of vehicular traffic may designate a parking space or
area for the disabled without conforming to the rules for identification and
dimensions as required by subsection B hereof; provided, however, the
provisions of subsection D hereof relating to the violations for parking in
such spaces shall not be applicable.
      2.   Inspection Certificates:
         a.   Any person who owns or controls private property used for parking
of motor vehicles may designate any parking space or area on such property for
the exclusive use of vehicles transporting temporary or permanently disabled
persons by designating and identifying such parking spaces according to the
standards established under subsection A hereof relating to the identification
and dimension requirements for handicapped parking.
         b.   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to issue a
City inspection certificate to each such space or area exclusively designated
for handicapped parking which meets the requirements set out in subsection B
hereof. Any persons owning or controlling private property and designating such
handicapped parking may apply for such inspection certificate to the City
Manager on the form prescribed and furnished by the City Manager's office.
         c.   There is hereby imposed a fee of five dollars ($5.00) for each
application and certificate. The City Manager shall cause an inspection to be
made of such parking space or area, and if the same meets with the requirements
as set out in subsection B hereof, he shall issue such certificate which shall
be permanently maintained for each parking space or area so designated.
   D.   Violation and Penalties: Article 6675a-5e.1, section 10(a)(b), Vernon's
Texas Civil Statutes, relating to offenses of illegally parking in a parking
space or parking area designated specifically for the disabled is hereby made
applicable to any parking space or parking area for the disabled on any public
street or in any parking lot maintained by the city for which such exclusive
use is designated or on any private parking lot or parking space designated for
exclusive use as provided for in subsection C of this section. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 10-1-91B, 10-1-1991; amd. 1994 Code)
6-3-3: BUS STOPS, CAB STANDS AND LOADING ZONES:
   A.   Designated: The city manager is authorized and required to establish
bus stops, taxicab stands, passenger and freight curb loading zones on the
public streets in such places and in such number as he shall determine to be of
the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and every such bus stop,
taxicab stand, passenger and/or freight curb loading zone shall be designated
by appropriate signs or markings. (Ord. 193, 3-17-1955; amd. 1994 Code)
   B.   Use Of Designated Space: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle
other than a bus in a bus stop or taxicab in a taxicab stand, or stop, stand or
park a vehicle in a passenger or freight curb loading zone other than for the
expeditious loading or unloading of passengers or freight when any such bus
stop, taxicab stand, passenger and/or freight curb loading zone has been
officially designated and appropriately marked or signed; except, that the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop in any of the above places
for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading
passengers when any such stopping does not interfere with any bus, taxicab or
truck waiting to enter or about to leave such stop, stand or zone. (Ord. 193,
3-17-1955)
6-3-4: PROHIBITED PARKING PLACES 1 :
   A.   No Parking Spaces: The city manager shall cause parking spaces to be
maintained and marked off in and on such streets and parts thereof as may be
designated by the board of commissioners, and shall cause spaces or areas in
which parking is prohibited at any time, or where parking is restricted to time
limits, to be marked off, identified as to type of parking allowed or
prohibited, and maintained in and on such part or parts of streets. All such
spaces or areas shall be clearly indicated by appropriate signs or markings on
the pavement or curb. It shall be a defense to the prosecution hereunder that
an area designated as "no parking" by ordinance by the board of commissioners
was not so designated or marked at the time of the offense. Such defense is an
affirmative defense and must be pleaded and proved by the defendant in any
municipal court prosecution relating thereto.
   B.   Specific No Parking Places: No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer or traffic control
device in any of the following places:
      1.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      2.   In a fire lane established around or adjacent to any building where
such area has predominantly displayed thereon a sign on the pavement, a stand
or other object adjacent thereto the words "Fire Lane – Parking Prohibited" and
the fire lane is clearly delineated by proper markings.
      3.   In a designated handicapped parking location where such space is
clearly marked for handicapped parking in accordance with state law, unless
such person is authorized to be parked therein under the provision of state
law.
      4.   At the locations to be determined by the board of commissioners,
from time to time, by ordinance.
   C.   Prohibited For Certain Purposes:
      1.   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street, alley or other
public way in the city for the principal purpose of:
         a.   Displaying such a vehicle for sale.
         b.   Washing, greasing, dismantling or repairing such vehicle, except
repairs necessitated by an emergency.
   D.   Prohibited For More Than Forty Eight Hours:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle owned by him
or under his control on any street, alley or other public way in the city for a
period of time in excess of forty eight (48) hours.
   E.   Designation And Marking Of Parking Spaces And Areas Where Parking Is
Prohibited Or Limited:
      1.   In areas designated as time limit parking areas, parking may be
limited to any period prescribed by the city manager, such areas to be
designated with clearly distinguished signs or markings at both ends of the
time limit area and at reasonable intervals between the beginning and ending of
such time limit area, indicating the time allowed for parking in such area.
      2.   Any prohibition of or time limit on parking established under this
section shall apply on such days and between such hours as prescribed by the
city manager.
   F.   Parking In Alleys:
      1.   Parking is prohibited in all alleys.
   G.   Parking Of Wide Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for the owner or
operator of any vehicle, including, but not limited to, a house trailer or
mobile unit, having a width at its widest part in excess of eighty inches
(80"), to park or station such vehicle on a street, alley or other public way
in the city however, to the exception that such vehicles may be parked
temporarily for loading or unloading which must be completed within a
reasonable time.
   H.   Municipal Parking Lots/Spaces:
      1.   The off-street parking lots at all city properties shall be used
exclusively to conduct city business only for the civic intent of the subject
property.
      2.   No person(s) shall use any part of a city’s parking lot to park any
vehicle or personal item (boat, etc.) for the intent of displaying it ‘For
Sale’ or for such similar transaction(s).
      3.   No person(s) shall park a vehicle on any part of a city’s parking
lot to wash, dismantle, or repair any vehicle or other personal item(s). Should
there be a car-wash by a civic or school group for a bona fide non-profit
purpose, such shall be examined by the City Manager to verify its legitimacy
and declaring the city’s approval for such temporary use. If approved, the City
Manager shall inform the Board of Commissioners, the Police Department, the
Code Enforcement Office, and any other personnel deemed appropriate in order to
not impede the events’ success by un-necessary enforcement efforts.
      4.   The City Manager shall pre-approve any proposal requesting the use
of any city parking lot for temporary or seasonal charitable purposes, e.g.,
back-to-school giveaways, Halloween drive-thru giveaways, food drive
initiatives, etc. In no case shall such events occur without the prior approval
of the City Manager.
      5.   With the proper regulatory signage installed, on-street parking
spaces facing or next to a city building, may be designated for ‘City Use’
only; such approval may include a time block of 30 minutes before and 30
minutes after the facility’s normal hours of operation. Should there be non-
city parking on such designated on-street parking spaces after normal working
hours (pursuant to the posted signage), it shall not be deemed to be a
violation of this Section. However, any vehicle(s) remaining parked in the on-
street parking space(s) designated for city use, shall be subject to typical
enforcement measures as outlined in Section 6-3-6 (Illegally Parked Vehicles;
Citation).
      6.   The City of Alamo owns properties throughout the City and desires to
continue being a respectful neighbor to surrounding property owners. In like
manner, the City merely expects a reasonable measure of respect to its
properties (just like any respect afforded to a private citizen). Reflective of
the City’s intent for cordial conduct, should there be a need for a vehicle to
necessarily park in a city parking lot/designated parking space due to an
emergency or un-expected vehicular failure, then the vehicle may remain parked
but only for a reasonable tenure to being removed therefrom. On the other hand,
should a city parking space be continuously used for private purposes without
any permission, then the City proclaims its inherent right to reclaim its
parking lot/parking spaces for public use to its facilities; thus, the City may
alert the police department for procedural enforcement, including but not
limited to, the vehicle, etc., being towed/moved away.
      7.   The following on-street parking spaces designated for ‘City Use’
only that face or are next to a city building, shall be as follows:
         a.   City of Alamo Museum;
         b.   (Reserved) (Ord. 03-08-04, 8-3-2004; amd. Ord. 51-08-22, 8-2-
2022)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-4-6 of this title for designation of no parking zones.
6-3-5: METHOD OF PARKING:
   A.   Parallel Parking: No person shall stand or park a vehicle on a roadway
other than parallel with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of
lawful traffic movement and with the right hand wheels of the vehicle within
eighteen inches (18") of the curb or edge of the roadway, except as otherwise
provided in this section. (Ord. 193, 3-17-1955)
   B.   Angle Parking:
      1.   The city manager is authorized and shall determine upon what streets
angle parking shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets but such
angle parking shall not be indicated upon any federal aid or state highway
within the city unless the state highway commission has determined by
resolution or order entered in its minutes that the roadway is of sufficient
width to permit angle parking without interfering with the free movement of
traffic. (Ord. 193, 3-17-1955; amd. 1994 Code)
      2.   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon those streets which
have been marked or signed for angle parking at other than the angle to the
curb or edge of the highway indicated by such signs or markings. (Ord. 193, 3-
17-1955)
6-3-6: ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES; CITATION:
   A.   Moving Vehicle: Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle parked,
stopped or standing in violation of any of the prohibitions of this chapter and
such vehicle constitutes an imminent threat to the public safety, such officer
is hereby authorized to move such vehicle or require the driver or other person
in charge of the vehicle to move the same.
   B.   Citations: When any police officer finds a vehicle parked, stopped or
standing in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such officer
may issue a citation to such person to appear in municipal court on or before
ten (10) days from the date of issuance of the citation or pay the fine as
herein specified.
   C.   Prima Facie Evidence: In any prosecution charging a violation of any
ordinance or regulation governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof
that the particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation
of any such ordinance or regulation, together with proof that the defendant
named in the complaint was, at the time of such parking, the registered owner
of such vehicle shall constitute an evidence of prima facie presumption that
the registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle at the point where and for the time during which such violation
occurred.
   D.   Penalty: The fine for any parking violation shall be a maximum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and minimum to be set by the municipal court judge
and shall be payable at the municipal court or city hall. (Ord. 3-17-92, 3-19-
1992, eff. retroactive to 3-17-1992)
6-3-7: IMPOUNDMENT OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle parked in violation of this chapter at a place where parking is
prohibited or parking time is limited may be removed and impounded by the
police department. Such vehicle shall be released upon payment to the
designated wrecker service of all fees assessed against the owner or driver of
the vehicle. The payment of such fees to said wrecker service shall not excuse
such owner or driver of the vehicle from the charge of violating this chapter
prohibiting or limiting such parking. (Ord. 553, 9-8-1970; amd. 1994 Code)
6-3-8: PARKING OF CERTAIN VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Definitions: The following shall be the definitions section for use
under this section. It is noted that words used in the present tense include
the future and words used in the future tense include the present tense; words
in the singular number include the plural number, and words in the plural
number include the singular:
             For the purposes of this ordinance a collector shall include a classification and
COLLECTOR    type of street that accepts traffic from minor residential streets and
STREET:      residential collectors; typically, such streets range from one hundred and twenty
             feet (120') to eighty feet (80') of right-of-way as per HCMPO standards and
             variable paving widths.
             A motor vehicle used to transport persons and designed to accommodate ten
MOTORBUS:    passengers or more, including the operator on the public highways for
             compensation or not if privately owned, other than a vehicle owned and operated
             by a political subdivision or public entity.
PARK OR      The halting or standing of an above-mentioned vehicle other than temporarily
PARKING:     engaged in loading or unloading materials or passengers.
             A vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by another vehicle and
             secured to the other vehicle by pole, reach boom, or other security device means
POLE         and ordinarily used to transport a long or irregularly shaped load, including
TRAILER:     poles, pipes, or structural members, generally capable of sustaining themselves
             as beams between the supporting connections. Ex. Utility Trailers, Boat Trailers,
             Ranch Trailers, Flatbed Trailers, etc.
             Shall include the following:
                1.   Travel trailer. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
             designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, leisure,
             and vacation uses, identified as a 'travel trailer' by the manufacturer of the
RECREATIONAL trailer;
VEHICLE:        2.   Pickup coach. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for
             use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, leisure, and vacation
             purposes.
                3.   Motor home. A portable, temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
             recreation, leisure, and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-
             propelled vehicle.
RESIDENTIAL  A classification and type of street, whether public or private, that is typical
COLLECTOR    of providing access to residential neighborhoods and other nonresidential areas;
STREET:      typically, such streets have a minimum width of sixty feet (60') to fifty feet
             (50') of right-of-way and variable paving widths.
             A classification and type of street, whether public or private, that is typical
RESIDENTIAL  of providing access to residential neighborhoods; typically, such streets have a
STREET:      minimum width of fifty feet (50') of right-of-way with paved 32-foot B-
             B sections.
             A vehicle designed or used with a motor vehicle so that part of the weight of the
SEMITRAILER: vehicle and its load rests on or is carried by another vehicle. Ex. "18-wheeled'
             trailers, flatbeds, other similar heavy vehicles, etc.
             For the purposes of this ordinance it is a vehicle that is designed or used to
TRUCK:       carry a load wholly on its own structure and includes vehicles that are designed
             to carry another motor vehicle. Ex. Delivery Trucks (Bread, Produce, Etc.),
             Moving Trucks (U-Haul, etc.), Wrecker Trucks
TRUCK-       A motor vehicle designed and used primarily to draw another vehicle, and not
TRACTOR:     constructed to carry a load other than a part of the weight of the other vehicle
             and its load, commonly known as a "bobtail".
             The City of Alamo's Zoning Map based on Title 10 Zoning of the City of Alamo Code
ZONING MAP   of Ordinances, reflecting the various land use zones pursuant to an evolving
             zoning map officially reflecting approved zone changes by the city commission.
 
   B.   Prohibited Practices: The following practices shall be prohibited in
the City of Alamo:
      1.   No person(s) shall park a motorbus, semitrailer, truck, truck-
tractor, and/or a pole trailer on any public or private: residential street,
right of ways, alleys, or residential collector street within the Alamo City
Limits.
      2.   No person(s) shall park the vehicles identified in subsection (B)(1)
above on collector streets if such streets are abutting properties that are
residentially zoned according to the zoning map or used for residential
purposes.
      3.   No person(s) shall park the vehicles identified in subsection (B)(1)
above on any public or private street if there is a public or privately-owned:
park, school, or hospital unless outside a one thousand (1,000)-foot distance
of said uses, such measurement to be along the public/private street and from
the nearest property lines.
      4.   No person(s) shall park the vehicles identified in subsection (B)(1)
above on any public or private property that has a residential zoning
classification, including but not limited to R-MH, R-2, etc.
      5.   No person(s) shall park the vehicles identified in subsection (B)(1)
above on any public or private property that is currently being utilized for
residential purposes.
      6.   No person(s) shall park the vehicles identified in subsection (B)(1)
above on any public or private property that has a commercial or industrial
zoning classification and that does not have a City business license issued to
the property for the operation of any permitted business.
   7.   Private recreational vehicles or pole trailers or boats or other
similar items shall not park or be stored on public or private streets, unless
for loading and un-loading not to exceed twenty-four (24) continuous hours.
Such recreational vehicles, pole trailers, boats or other similar items shall
not be permitted to park or be stored on privately-owned property unless within
a paved driveway in the front or side yard area; and after such parking, the
driveway shall still provide the minimum off-street paved parking spaces as
required by Section
10-3-6 ‘Vehicle Parking’ of the Code of Ordinances. If the RV or pole trailer
or boat is parked/stored at the rear of the property, it may be so parked on
the ground, i.e., not a paved surface. Any parked RV shall not be connected to
utilities (electrical/electrical extension/water/sewer), or residentially used
or occupied, either temporarily, overnight, or in any other manner.
   C.   Enforcement and Penalty: The Alamo Police Department shall be
responsible to enforce the predominant portion of this ordinance where un-
lawful parking is evident on public or private streets. It shall be the
responsibility of the Community Planning and Development Department of the City
of Alamo to enforce the regulations pertaining to unlawful parking on private
or public properties not zoned for such uses. Unless othenwise provided, any
person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   D.   Notice of Violation:
      1.   For Violations on Private Property: The Community Planning and
Development Department shall cause a notice to be prepared which shall describe
and specify the violation and which shall state that if the vehicle is not
removed or the violation is not corrected within ten (10) days, the City shall
abate the violation in accordance with the provisions of this section.
         a.   All notices mailed by the Community Planning and Development
Department under this section shall be sent by certified mail. If such address
is known, or with reasonable care should be known, the notice shall be mailed
to or hand delivered to the owner of the vehicle and/or the occupant of the
property. Any time periods provided in this section shall be deemed to commence
on the date of mailing the certified mail. The notice shall be mailed to the
owner of the property on which the vehicle is located as recorded with the
Hidalgo County Appraisal District.
         b.   Any person having an interest in the vehicle to be removed
pursuant to this section or the property where such vehicle is situated may
appeal the determination of the Community Planning and Development Department
or duly authorized representative ordering removal or compliance by filing a
written notice of appeal accompanied with a completed application for a public
hearing with the City Commission within ten (10) days after the date of mailing
the notice, or within ten (10) days after receipt of the notice if the notice
was hand delivered.
      2.   For Violations on Public Property and Right of Way: The Alamo Police
Department shall notify the owner of the violation, by citation (ticket),
sticker placed on vehicle, or by letter as mentioned in Section D and shall
also state that, if the vehicle is not removed or the violation is not
corrected within five (5) days, the Alamo Police Department may cause such
vehicle parked in violation of this chapter to be removed and impounded. Such
vehicle shall be released upon payment to the designated wrecker service of all
fees assessed against the owner or driver of the vehicle. The payment of such
fees to said wrecker service shall not excuse such owner or driver of the
vehicle from the charge of violating this chapter prohibiting such parking.
(Ord. 16-09-16, 9-6-2016; amd. Ord. 47-09-23, 9-5-2023)
CHAPTER 4
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Speed Limits
6-4-2: Stop Intersections
6-4-3: Through Streets
6-4-4: One-Way Streets
6-4-5: Weight Limits
6-4-6: No Parking Zones
6-4-7: Other Signage
6-4-1: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   School zones: It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to travel in excess
of the following specified speed limits between the hours of seven thirty
o'clock (7:30) A.M. and four thirty o'clock (4:30) P.M. on school days in the
following zones or districts:
 
Street            Zone
Alamo Boulevard   From Citrus Avenue to Acacia Avenue (20 mph)
Birch Avenue      From North 9th Street to Alamo Boulevard (20 mph)
Bowie Avenue      From South 7th Street to South 9th Street (20 mph)
FM 907            Beginning at Ivy Avenue to north of Nebraska Street (25 mph)
North 9th Street  From Birch Avenue to Duranta Avenue (30 mph)
North 10th Street From Birch Avenue to Duranta Avenue (20 mph)
 
      1.   Beginning at 612' East of Tower Rd. to Alamo East City Limit (343'
W. of Valley Blvd.) the maximum school zone speed limit shall be 35 miles per
hour when flashing and 55 miles per hour all other times.
   B.   Additional limits:
Fifteen miles per hour:      
 Street                    Area
 A-B Alley                 From FM 907 to North 10th Street
 Richland Drive            Ridge Treasure Estates Subdivision
Twenty miles per hour:       
 Street                    Area
 Belinda Drive             All the streets within the Alamo Country Club
                            subdivision
 Citrus Drive               
 Country Club Drive         
 Diana Drive                
 Dorathy Drive              
 Druanne Drive              
 Ernestine Drive            
 Jewell Drive               
 Karen Drive                
 Katrin Drive               
 Lucy Drive                 
 Marylin Jane Drive         
 Nada Drive                 
 Northcutt Drive            
 Palm Drive                 
 Rebecca Drive              
 Rexine Drive               
 Santa Ana Drive            
 Virginia Drive             
 Wilma Drive                
Thirty miles per hour:       
 Street                    Area
 Alamo Road (FM 907)       From 1.1101 miles south of north city limit south
                            to Expressway 83
 Alamo Road (FM 907)       From Ridge Road south a distance of 0.099 mile
                            From the centerline of U.S. Expressway north 1,097
 Farm Road 907             feet to a point to the north city limit; thence to
                            a point 5,666 feet south of the centerline of U.S.
                            83 Expressway to the south city limit
 Tower Road                From Expressway 83 to State Highway 495
 30 mph south from 907 to Fannin, then resumes 45 mph (southbound)
 30 mph north from 907 to Jasmine, then resumes 45 mph (northbound)
Thirty five miles per hour:  
 Street                    Area
 Tower Road                From Expressway 83 to State Highway 495
 U.S. Highway 83           From a point on such highway 0.21 mile west of east
                            city limit to 12th Street
Forty miles per hour:        
 Street                    Area
 FM 907                    Beginning at IH-2 (Expressway 83) heading north for
                            a total of 1.146 miles (just south of Sioux Road)
 FM 907                    Beginning at Ivy Avenue to north of Nebraska Street
Forty five miles per hour:   
 Street                    Area
 Alamo Road (FM 907)       From 0.099 mile south of Ridge Road to 0.547 mile
                            south of Ridge Road
 Alamo Road (FM 907)       From 0.6841 mile south of north city limit to
                            1.1101 miles south of north city limit
                            From the 1.146 mile end point (just south of Sioux
 FM 907                    Road) continuing north to the city limit at Eldora
                            Road
 U.S. Highway 83           From east city limit west a distance of 0.21 mile
 U.S. Highway 83           From 12th Street to west city limit
Fifty miles per hour:        
 Street                    Area
 Alamo Road (FM 907)       From 0.547 mile south of Ridge Road to Rancho
                            Blanco Road
 FM 907                    From Eldora Road to Earling Road (Nolana Loop)
Fifty five miles per hour:   
 Street                    Area
 Alamo Road (FM 907)       From 0.631 mile south of north city limit to 0.6841
                            mile south of north city limit
 FM 907                    From FM 495 to Eldora Road
 Farm Road 907             Between FM 495 and Eldora Road and within the city
                            limits
Sixty miles per hour:        
 Street                    Area
 Alamo Road (FM 907)       From north city limit to 0.0631 mile south of north
                            city limit
 
   C.   Penalty: Unless otherwise provided, any person who shall violate any of
the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.(Ord. 182, 8-17-1953; amd. Ord. 229, 11-17-1959; Ord. 548a,
7-13-1970; 1994 Code; Ord. 9-15-98-08, 9-15-1998; Ord. 3-21-00, 3-21-2000; Ord.
06-06-02, 6-4-2002; Ord. 16-11-02, 11-6-2002; Ord. 09-07-12, 7-3-2012; Ord. 05-
03-20, 3-17-2020; Ord. 01-01-21, 1-5-2021; Ord. 27-05-21, 5-18-2021; Ord. 127-
09-24, 9-17-2024)
6-4-2: STOP INTERSECTIONS 1 :
The following is a list of intersections of public streets within the city to
be controlled by stop signs from and after the effective date hereof:
 
 
Stop Street At Intersection With
Stop Street                             At Intersection With
A-B Alley                               FM 907 (west to east)
A-B Alley                               North 10th Street (east to west)
Acacia Avenue                           7th Street (4-way stop)
Acacia Street                           Alamo Road (east to west)
Acacia Street                           Tower Road (west to east)
Acacia Street                           9th Street (east to west)
Acacia Street                           13th Street (east to west)
Alamo Road (FM 907)                     Lopez Drive
Alamo Road                              U.S. 83 business traffic light (north
                                        to south)
Alamo Road                              U.S. 83 freeway traffic stoplight
                                        (north to south)
Arthur Drive                            King James Drive
Austin Avenue                           Alamo Road (east to west)
Austin Avenue                           Palmview Drive (4-way stop)
Austin Avenue                           Tower Road (east to west)
Austin Avenue                           4th Street (4-way stop)
Austin Avenue                           7th Street (east to west)
Austin Avenue                           8th Street (east to west)
Austin Avenue                           9th Street (east to west)
Austin Avenue                           13th Street (east to west)
Austin Lane                             Alamo Road (east to west)
Austin Lane                             13th Street (east to west)
Birch Avenue                            Alamo Road
Birch Avenue                            Tower Road (west to east)
Birch Avenue                            6th Street (east to west)
Birch Avenue                            7th Street (4-way stop)
Birch Avenue                            8th Street (east to west)
Birch Avenue                            9th Street (east to west)
Bowie Avenue                            Alamo Road (east to west)
Bowie Avenue                            Palmview Drive (3rd Street) (3-way
                                        stop)
Bowie Avenue                            Tower Road (4-way stop)
Bowie Avenue                            7th Street (east to west)
Bowie Avenue                            7th Street (4-way stop)
Bowie Avenue                            9th Street (east to west)
Bowie Avenue                            12th Street (east to west)
Bowie Avenue                            13th Street (east to west)
Citrus Street                           Alamo Road (east to west)
Citrus Street                           6th Street (west to east)
Citrus Street                           7th Street (east to west)
Citrus Street                           8th Street (east to west)
Citrus Street                           9th Street (east to west)
Citrus Street                           10th Street (west to east)
Citrus Street                           11th Place (east to west)
Citrus Street                           12th Street (east to west)
Citrus Street                           13th Street (east to west)
Country Club Drive                      Katrin Drive (west to east)
Crestfood Inc.                          Tower Road (west to east)
Crockett Avenue                         Alamo Road (east to west)
Crockett Avenue                         Palmview Drive (3rd Street) (4-way
                                        stop)
Crockett Avenue                         Tower Road (east to west)
Crockett Avenue                         7th Street (east to west)
Crockett Avenue                         10th Street (west to east)
Crockett Avenue                         South 4th Street (3-way Stop)
Crockett Avenue                         (W) Serge Loop (3-way Stop)
Date Palm Street                        13th Street (west to east)
De Soto Avenue                          Alamo Road (east to west)
De Soto Avenue                          Tower Road (west to east)
De Soto Avenue                          7th Street (4-way stop)
De Soto Avenue                          8th Street (east to west)
De Soto Avenue                          9th Street (east to west)
Duranta Avenue                          Alamo Road (east to west)
Duranta Avenue                          6th Street (4-way stop)
Duranta Avenue                          7th Street (east to west)
Duranta Avenue                          12th Street (east and west, creating a
                                        4-way stop)
Ebony Street                            Tower Road (west to east)
Ebony Street                            6th Street (east to west)
El Paseo Drive                          Las Fuentes Drive (north to south)
Ellis Street                            Alamo Road (east to west)
Ellis Street                            Tower Road (west to east)
Ellis Street                            7th Street (east to west)
Ellis Street                            8th Street (east to west)
Ellis Street                            9th Street (east to west)
Ellis Street                            10th Street (east to west)
Elm Street                              13th Street (east to west)
Fannin Street                           Alamo Road (east to west)
Fannin Street                           Tower Road (west to east)
Fannin Street                           South 7th Street (4-way stop)
Fannin Street                           9th Street (east to west)
Gail Street                             West Nebraska Road
Hackberry Avenue                     Alamo Road (east to west)
Hackberry Avenue                        Aurora Drive (all way stop)
Hackberry Avenue                        Tower Road (west to east)
Hackberry Avenue                        7th Street (all way stop)
Hackberry Avenue                        12th Street (4-way stop)
Hackberry Avenue                        13th Street (east to west)
Ivy Street                              Alamo Road (west to east)
Ivy Street                              North 12th Street (east to west)
Ivy Street                              North 13th Street (east to west)
Jasmine Street                          Alamo Road (west to east)
La Costa Drive                          Las Fuentes Drive (south to north)
La Costa Drive                          Las Fuentes Drive (north to south)
Las Flores Drive                        Las Fuentes Drive (north to south)
Las Fuentes Drive (La Hacienda Estates) Tower Road (west)
Las Fuentes Drive                       Tower Road (east to west)
Las Fuentes Drive                       El Paso Drive (west to east)
Main Street                             8th Street (east to west)
Main Street                             9th Street (east to west)
Maple Avenue                            13th Street (all way stop
Marilyn Jane Drive                      Karen Drive
Nebraska Road                           8th Street (4-way stop)
Nebraska Road                           13th Street (3-way stop)
Nogal Avenue                            12th Street (all way stop)
Nogal Avenue                            13th Street (all way stop)
Railroad Avenue                         Tower Road (west to east)
Railroad Avenue                         7th Street (east to west)
Ridge Road                              Tower Road (4-way stop)
Royal Palm Street                       13th Street (west to east)
Sago Palm Street                        13th Street (west to east)
Santa Ana Drive                         Alamo Country Club exit drive
                                        (northwest corner of the intersection)
Santa Ana Drive                         Country Club Drive (southeast corner of
                                        the intersection)
Stensbo Street                          Alamo Road (east to west)
Stensbo Street                          11th Place (west to east)
Stensbo Street                          13th Street (east to west)
Stensbo Street                          North 12th Street (4-way stop)
Texana Lane                             Marcia Garza Elementary (Sabal Palms
                                        Subdivision) (all way stop)
Tower Road                              Bowie Avenue (4-way stop)
Tower Road                              Highway 83 business traffic stoplight
                                        (north to south)
Tower Road                              Highway 83 freeway traffic stoplight
                                        (3-way stop)
Tower Road                              Moore Road (4-way stop)
Tower Road                              Nebraska Road (4-way stop)
Tower Road                              Ridge Road (4-way stop)
51/2 Street                             Austin Avenue (north to south)
51/2 Street                             Duranta Avenue (north to south)
51/2 Street                             Ebony Street (south to north)
51/2 Street                             Highway 83 business (south to north)
6th Street                              Acacia Street (north to south)
6th Street                              Austin Avenue (north to south)
6th Street                              Bowie Avenue (north to south)
6th Street                              Crockett Avenue (north to south)
6th Street                              De Soto Avenue (north to south)
6th Street                              Ellis Street (north to south)
6th Street                              Fannin Street (north to south)
6th Street                              Freeway frontage (north to south)
6th Street                              Hackberry (southbound will be Nora
                                        Circle)
6th Street                              Highway 83 business (south to north)
6th Street                              Railroad Street (north to south)
61/2 Street                             Duranta Avenue (north to south)
61/2 Street                             Hackberry Avenue (north to south)
61/2 Street                             Highway freeway frontage (north to
                                        south)
7 Place                                 Austin Avenue (north to south)
7 Place                                 Bowie Avenue (north to south)
7 Place                                 Highway 83 business (south to north)
7th Street                              Acacia Street (north to south)
7th Street                              Birch Avenue (4-way stop)
7th Street                              Bowie Avenue (4-way stop)
7th Street                              Hackberry Avenue (north to south)
7th Street                              Highway 83 business (north to south)
7th Street                              Highway 83 freeway (north to south)
71/2 Street                             Highway 83 freeway frontage (north to
                                        south)
8th Street                              Acacia Street (north to south)
8th Street                              Bowie Avenue (north to south)
8th Street                              Duranta Avenue (north to south)
8th Street                              East Birch Avenue
8th Street                              East Citrus Avenue
8th Street                              Fannin Street (north to south)
8th Street                              Highway 83 business - Stop sign and
                                        caution light - (north to south)
8th Street                              Highway 83 freeway frontage (north to
                                        south)
8th Street                              Main Street (north)
9th Street                              Acacia Street (north to south)
9th Street                              Duranta Avenue (north to south)
9th Street                              Highway 83 business traffic light
                                        (north to south)
9th Street                              U.S. 83 Highway frontage (south to
                                        north)
9th Place                               Acacia Street (south to north)
9th Place                               Austin Avenue (north to south)
9th Place                               Bowie Avenue (north to south)
9th Place                               Duranta Avenue (north to south)
9th Place                               Highway 83 business (north to south)
10th Street                             Acacia Street (north to south)
10th Street                             Austin Avenue (north to south)
10th Street                             Birch Avenue (north to south)
10th Street                             Bowie Avenue (north to south)
10th Street                             De Soto Avenue (north to south)
10th Street                             Duranta Avenue (north to south)
10th Street                             Fannin Street (north to south)
10th Street                             Highway 83 business (south to north)
North 10th Street                       West Nebraska Road
12th Street                             Austin Avenue (north to south)
12th Street                             Austin Lane (north to south)
12th Street                             Crockett Avenue (north to south)
12th Street                             Duranta Avenue (north to south)
12th Street                             Highway 83 business (south to north)
12th Street                             Highway 83 freeway frontage (north to
                                        south)
12th Street                             Jasmine Street (south to north)
13th Street                             Crockett Avenue (north to south)
13th Street                             Duranta Avenue (north to south)
13th Street                             Highway 83 business (north to south)
13th Street                             Highway 83 freeway frontage (north to
                                        south)
 
(Ord. 651A, 10-17-1978; amd. Ord. 3-18-97, 4-22-1997; Ord. 7-15-97, 7-15-1997;
Ord. 3-02-99, 3-2-1999; Ord. 5-04-99, 5-4-1999; Ord. 3-21-00, 3-21-2000; Ord.
41-12-01, 12-18-2001; Ord. 13-09-02, 9-17-2002; Ord. 13-06-03, 6-17-2003; Ord.
03-05-05, 7-5-2005; Ord. 02-01-06, 1-3-2006; Ord. 13-07-06, 7-11-2006; Ord. 01-
01-07, 1-16-2007; Ord. 13-07-07, 7-17-2007; Ord. 01-01-08, 1-8-2008; Ord. 04-
02-08, 2-12-2008; Ord. 15-07-08, 7-8-2008; Ord. 14-09-10, 9-7-2010; Ord. 09-09-
11, 9-20-2011; Ord. 14-01-11, 11-1-2011; Ord. 12-08-12, 8-21-2012; Ord. 01-01-
13, 1-2-2013; Ord. 03-01-13, 1-19-2013; Ord. 18-07-13, 7-16-2013; Ord. 06-04-
14, 4-18-2014; Ord. 10-06-15, 6-2-2015; Ord. 08-06-19, 6-18-2019; Ord. 07-02-
21, 2-2-2021; Ord. 84-3-24, 3-19-2024; Ord. 85-3-24, 3-19-2024; Ord. 86-3-24,
3-19-2024; Ord. 113-8-24, 8-6-2024; Ord. 114-8-24, 8-6-2024; Ord. 172-04-25, 4-
15-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  6-2-4 of this title for authority.
6-4-3: THROUGH STREETS:
The following public streets located within the City limits shall be and are
hereby designated thoroughfares, and traffic control devices are hereby
authorized to be erected controlling the crossing of these thoroughfares by
other public streets, except where specifically designated to the contrary in
section
6-4-2 of this chapter:
NORTH TO SOUTH
Through Street Ordinance
Alamo Road        650
Tower Road        650
7th Street        650
8th Street        2-16-65
9th Street        650
13th Street       650
EAST TO WEST
Through Street Ordinance
Acacia Avenue     650
Austin Avenue     650
Duranta Avenue    650
Duranta Avenue    10-06-15
Fannin Street     650
Lopez Drive       03-05-05
 
6-4-4: ONE-WAY STREETS:
 
 Street       Direction Location
                         Between 9th and 10th Streets, between the hours of 7:
Birch Avenue   West      30 A.M. to 8:15 A.M. and 3:30 P.M. to 4:15 P.M.,
                         during school days, Monday through Friday
Bowie Avenue   East      Between 8th and 9th Streets, between the hours of 7:30
                         A.M. to 8:30 A.M. and from 3:00 P.M. to 4:30 P.M.
                         Between Alamo Road and 12th Street, between the hours
Jasmine Avenue West      of 7:30 A.M. to 8:30 A.M. and from 3:00 P.M. to 4:30
                         P.M.
                         Between Bowie Avenue and De Soto Avenue, between the
8th Street     South     hours of 7:30 A.M. to 8:30 A.M. and 3:30 P.M. to 4:30
                         P.M., during school days, Monday through Friday
 
(Ord. 26-09-01, 9-4-2001; amd. Ord. 24-10-07, 10-16-2007; Ord. 25-10-07, 10-16-
2007; Ord. 07-02-13, 2-1-2013)
6-4-5: WEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.   Acacia Street:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having custody of any
truck whose minimum rated capacity exceeds three-quarters (3/4) of one ton to
park said truck on any portion of Acacia Street from its intersection with
Alamo Road to its intersection with 8th Street.
      2.   Signs setting forth this prohibition shall be erected along Acacia
Street at regular intervals to give additional notice to any person owning or
having custody of a truck which has a minimum rated capacity of over three-
quarters (3/4) of one ton. (Ord. 521, 8-15-1967)
      3.   Any owner or person having custody of a truck exceeding the minimum
rated capacity of three-quarters (3/4) of one ton who parks such truck on any
part or portion of Acacia Street from its intersection with 8th Street shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 521, 8-15-1967; amd. 1994 Code)
6-4-6: NO PARKING ZONES:
No parking zones are hereby designated in the following areas:
Street No Parking Area
Street                               No Parking Area
                                     From the south curb on the Expressway
Alamo Road                           Frontage Road 83 to the north curb line of
                                     business 83.
                                     On the east side, from the north curb line
                                     of East Duranta Avenue northward for a
Alamo Road                           distance of 158 feet, to a point being the
                                     north property line of lots 1, 2 and 3 of
                                     the Cuellar-Hutchins subdivision.
                                     The westernmost fifty feet (50') as Becker
Becker Street                        intersects with the east side of Tower
                                     Road's curb; both north and south sides of
                                     Becker shall be so designated and marked.
Expressway frontage                  On city right of way between Cesar Chavez
                                     Road and 13th Street.
Frontage roads of U.S. Expressway 83 Between the intersections of State Highway
westbound                            907 and 12th Street.
Nebraska Road                        On city right of way between Cesar Chavez
                                     Road and 13th Street.
                                     From the intersection of Santa Ana Drive
                                     and Country Club Drive northward along the
Santa Ana Drive                      east side of Santa Ana Drive to a point
                                     approximately 195 feet from the
                                     intersection.
N. 9th Street                        On city right of way between the
                                     Expressway frontage and Duranta Avenue.
 
Parking in the above parking zones shall be considered a misdemeanor and in
addition to any other remedy which the city may have for parking in such area,
the owner and/or operator of the vehicle parked at such prohibited location may
be subject to penalty/penalties as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each time a vehicle is parked in such a 'No Parking'
zone, and such person is convicted for a violation hereof. The Alamo Police
Department is hereby authorized to tow away, or cause to tow away, any vehicle
illegally parked in such designated 'No Parking' area. These provisions are
specifically intended to improve fire safety, traffic safety, and remove
traffic constraints so first responders may promptly tend to the general
public's health and safety. Each time a vehicle is parked in such a 'No
Parking' zone is shall be a separate offense. Furthermore, if a trailer, hitch,
boat, or other object is placed, temporarily or otherwise, in such 'No Parking'
area, such shall be subject to being similarly towed away and/or removed.
(Ord., 5-18-1993; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 06-04-96, 6-4-1996; Ord. 8-6-96, 8-6-
1996; Ord. 01-21-97, 1-21-1997; Ord. 8-1-00, 8-1-2000; Ord. 07-03-08, 3-5-2008;
Ord. 04-02-09, 2-3-2009; Ord. 37-06-22, 6-7-2022)
6-4-7: OTHER SIGNAGE:
 
Street   Location of Other Signage
Crockett ‘Slow’ or similar intent sign on north side of Crockett/ Serge Loop (E)
Avenue   intersection
Crockett ‘Slow’ or similar intent sign on north side of Crockett/ 500' east of Palmview
Avenue   Drive
Crockett Painted directional arrows (straight + right turn; straight + left turn) at the
Avenue   following intersections with Crockett Avenue: Meadow Creek, South 4th Street,
         Palmview Drive, Cripple Creek Circle, Serge Loop
 
(Ord. 172-40-25, 4-15-2025)
CHAPTER 5
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Public Nuisance Declared
6-5-3: Notice of Violation
6-5-4: Right of Entry for Inspection
6-5-5: Public Hearing Prior to Removal
6-5-6: Exceptions
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ANTIQUE AUTO: A passenger car or truck that was manufactured in 1925 or
before, or which is thirty five (35) or more years old.
   COLLECTOR: The owner of one or more antique or special interest vehicles who
collects, purchases, acquires, trades or disposes of special interest or
antique vehicles or parts of them for his own use in order to restore, preserve
and maintain an antique or special interest vehicle for historic interest.
   DEMOLISHER: Any person whose business is to convert a motor vehicle into
processed scrap or scrap metal or otherwise to wreck or dismantle motor
vehicles.
   JUNKED VEHICLE: A motor vehicle as defined in Vernon's Annotated Civil
Statutes, article 6701d-11:
   A.   That is inoperative; and
   B.   That does not have lawfully affixed to it either an unexpired license
plate or a valid motor vehicle safety inspection certificate; that is wrecked,
dismantled, partially dismantled or discarded; or that remains inoperable for a
continuous period of more than forty five (45) days.
   SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE: A motor vehicle of any age which has not been
altered or modified from original manufacturer's specifications and, because of
its historic interest, is being preserved by hobbyist. (Ord., 6-29-93)
6-5-2: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
   A.   A junked vehicle that is located where it is visible from a public
place or a public right of way is detrimental to the safety and welfare of the
general public, tends to reduce the value of private property, invites
vandalism, creates fire hazards, constitutes an attractive nuisance creating a
hazard to the health and safety of minors, and is detrimental to the economic
welfare of the City by producing urban blight, adverse to the maintenance and
continuing development of the City and is a public nuisance 1 .
   B.   A person commits an offense if that person creates or maintains a
public nuisance as determined under this Section.
   C.   A person who commits an offense under this Section is, upon conviction,
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. On conviction, the Court shall order removal and abatement
of the nuisance. (Ord., 6-29-93; 1994 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 4, Chapter 4 of this Code for nuisance provisions.
6-5-3: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   Notice by Chief of Police: Whenever it is brought to the attention of
the Chief of Police that a public nuisance, as defined in this Chapter, exists
on private property or on a public right of way or public property in the City,
the Chief of Police shall give or cause to be given to the last known
registered owner of the junked motor vehicle, any lienholder of record, and the
owner or occupants of the private premises or owner or occupant of private
property adjacent to the public right of way or owner or occupant of the public
premises on which the public nuisance exists, a notice, in writing, stating:
      1.   The nature of the public nuisance;
      2.   That it must be removed and abated within ten (10) days; and
      3.   That a request for a hearing must be made before the expiration of
the ten (10) day period.
   B.   Time for Taking Action: The notice shall be mailed by certified mail
with a five (5) day return requested. If the notice is returned undelivered by
the United States post office, official action to abate such nuisance shall be
continued to a date not less than ten (10) days from the date of such return.
(Ord., 6-29-93)
6-5-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION:
The Chief of Police, or his duly authorized agent, may enter upon private
property for the purposes specified in this Chapter and to examine vehicles or
parts thereof, obtain information as to the identity of vehicles and to remove
or cause the removal of a vehicle or parts thereof declared to be a nuisance,
in accordance with this Chapter. The Municipal Court shall have authority to
issue all orders necessary to enforce this Chapter. (Ord., 6-29-93)
6-5-5: PUBLIC HEARING PRIOR TO REMOVAL:
A public hearing shall be held prior to the removal of any vehicle or part
thereof as a public nuisance. Such hearing shall be held before a Municipal
Judge of the City. Failure of any party notified under Section
6-5-3 of this Chapter to request a hearing within ten (10) days after service
of notice or return of such notice undelivered by the United States post office
shall be deemed a waiver of that party's attendance at such public hearing. If,
at such hearing, the Municipal Court finds that the vehicle in question is a
public nuisance, the Court may issue orders necessary to enforce the provisions
of this Chapter. If the order provides for removal of the vehicle, such order
shall a) prohibit the vehicle from being reconstructed or made operable after
removal, and b) provide for notice to the State Department of Highway and
Public Transportation not later than the fifth day after removal. (Ord., 6-29-
93)
6-5-6: EXCEPTIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   A vehicle or part thereof which is completely enclosed within a
building in a lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other
public or private property;
   B.   A vehicle or part thereof which is stored or parked in a lawful manner
on private property in connection with the business of a licensed vehicle
dealer or junk yard; or
   C.   Unlicensed, operable or inoperable antique and special interest
vehicles stored by a collector on his property; provided, that the vehicle and
the outdoor storage areas are maintained in such a manner that they do not
constitute a health hazard and are screened from ordinary public view by means
of a fence, rapidly growing trees, shrubbery or other appropriate means. (Ord.,
6-29-93)
CHAPTER 6
WRECKERS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: Purpose
6-6-3: Required Application
6-6-4: Permit Issuance By Chief Of Police; Minimum Requirements To Be Met;
Insurance Required; Other Requirements
6-6-5: State Inspection Required; Inspection Certificate Nontransferable
6-6-6: Suspension And/Or Revocation Of Permit
6-6-7: Suspension Or Revocation Of Permit Hearing
6-6-8: Wreckers To Be Summoned By Police Or Fire Department
6-6-9: Soliciting Wrecker Business At Scene Of Accident Prohibited; Presence At
Scene As Evidence Of Violation
6-6-10: Communication From The Police Or Fire Department Radio Frequency May
Not Be Intercepted, Etc.
6-6-11: Voluntary Wrecker Rotation List
6-6-12: Maximum Rates
6-6-13: Safety Precautions
6-6-14: Penalty
6-6-15: Establishing A Limit On The Number Of Wrecker Companies On Rotation
Within The City
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDONED: As defined in section 683.031 of the Texas Transportation Code,
as may be amended.
   AUCTION: The sale of motor vehicles not claimed by the lawful owners and
reported to the Alamo police department as abandoned.
   CHIEF OF POLICE: Chief of police for the Alamo police department.
   DESIGNATED PERSON: Person designated by the chief of police.
   INSPECTIONS: The inspection of insurance certificates and permits by
officers of the Alamo police department for wreckers on rotation responding to
calls for service. The designated officer or person in charge of overseeing the
wrecker rotation list can also, upon request check wrecker bill invoices at the
vehicle storage facility.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   OWNER: Any person who holds the legal title of a motor vehicle, or has the
legal right of possession thereof, or the legal right to such vehicle.
   TWENTY FOUR HOUR WRECKER SERVICE: In order to be categorized as a twenty
four (24) hour wrecker service, the permit holder must have two (2) telephone
lines or a telephone capable of receiving two (2) lines listed with the city
which can be answered twenty four (24) hours, seven (7) days a week. The
wrecker company must be able to immediately advise the police department of the
availability of a wrecker. The permit holder must have two-way communications
between the wreckers and the wrecker service office.
   VEHICLE: A device in, on, or by which a person or property may be
transported on a public roadway. The term includes an operable or inoperable
automobile, truck, motorcycle, recreational vehicle, except devices moved by
human power or used exclusively on a stationary rail or track, including
trailers and semitrailers.
   VEHICLE STORAGE FACILITY: A garage, parking lot, or any facility owned or
operated by a person other than a governmental entity for storing or parking
ten (10) or more vehicles a year, as stated in article 6687-9a, vehicle storage
act, or the successor statute/code provisions.
   VOLUNTARY WRECKER ROTATION LIST: The rotation list of wrecker companies
prepared and used as provided in this chapter.
   WRECKER: Any motor vehicle used for the purpose of towing or removing
disabled or wrecked vehicles.
   WRECKER BUSINESS: The business of towing or removing vehicles on the public
streets, regardless of whether the purpose of the towing is to remove, repair,
wreck, store, trade or purchase such vehicle, when the towing is done to remove
a wrecked or disabled vehicle from the scene of a collision at the instance or
request of the owner thereof, or the police department or fire department, or
to remove a vehicle from an unlawfully parked position at the instance or
request of the police department or fire department.
   WRECKER COMPANY: Any person or entity engaged in the wrecker business. (Ord.
01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-2: PURPOSE:
The operation of emergency wreckers and emergency wrecker service with respect
to those wreckers providing services on the city's voluntary wrecker rotation
list requires regulation in order to avoid competitive speeding, unnecessary
delay, and confusion by wreckers and emergency wrecker services in the city.
Such regulations are necessary in order to avoid traffic hazards and to
minimize the danger of injury to persons and damage to property. (Ord. 01-02-
11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-3: REQUIRED APPLICATION:
Each wrecker company desiring to be placed on the voluntary wrecker rotation
list with the Alamo police department, shall make application, in writing, on a
form provided for that purpose, to the chief of police. Each application shall
contain the name, address and telephone number of the wrecker company. The
application shall also contain a list of all wreckers to be used by the
company, to include type of unit, year, model, vehicle identification number
and current tow truck registration. Copies of current insurance policies for
all wreckers listed and the storage facility shall also be provided. A current
copy of the storage facility license shall be provided with the application.
Photocopies of all driver's licenses for all drivers of the company, and a
statement that the applicant does or does not desire to appear on the wrecker
rotation list shall accompany the application. Every application when filed
shall be sworn to by the applicant. Any application with false information or
incomplete documentation will not be processed. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-4: PERMIT ISSUANCE BY CHIEF OF POLICE; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS TO BE MET;
INSURANCE REQUIRED; OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
Subject to the maximum numerical limits on the number of wrecker companies
which may be placed on the voluntary wrecker rotation list as set out in
section
6-6-15 of this chapter, the chief of police, or his designee, shall issue a
permit to, and place on the voluntary wrecker rotation list, all wrecker
companies making appropriate application and desiring to be placed on the
city's voluntary wrecker rotation list; provided, however that any such
applicants selected must comply with the provisions of this chapter. No
certificate authorizing the placement of a wrecker company on the voluntary
wrecker rotation list shall be issued unless the following requirements are
met:
   A.   Safety Requirements: Every wrecker proposed to be used by the applicant
shall comply with the following minimum safety requirements:
      1.   Each wrecker shall be not less than three-quarters (3/4) ton in size
and shall be equipped with booster brakes.
      2.   Each wrecker shall be equipped with a power winch line and boom,
with a factory rated lifting capacity of not less than five thousand (5,000)
pounds single line capacity.
      3.   Each wrecker shall carry as standard equipment tow bars, or roller
bars, safety chains, a fire extinguisher, wrecking bars, an axe, and oil
absorbent material. The applicant shall have dollies if needed, but they are
not required equipment for each wrecker.
      4.   Each wrecker proposed to be used shall comply with the requirements
of section
6-6-5 of this chapter.
      5.   Each wrecker so qualifying shall be issued safety and insurance
compliance inspection certificates.
   B.   Insurance Requirements:
      1.   Each wrecker company shall produce and keep in full force and effect
a policy of public liability and property damage insurance issued by a casualty
insurance company authorized to do business in the state of Texas and in the
standard form approved by the board of insurance commissioners of the state,
with the insured provision of such policy including the city as an insured, and
the coverage provision insuring the public from any loss or damage that may
arise to any person or property by reason of the operation of a wrecker of such
company and providing that the amount of recovery on each wrecker shall be in
limits of not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for damages
arising out of bodily injury to or death of one person in any one accident, and
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for injury to or destruction of
property in any one accident. Failure to maintain insurance will result in
immediate removal from the rotation list.
      2.   A list of all wrecker operators/drivers and a copy of their Texas
operator license shall be submitted with the above insurance policies. It shall
be the obligation of the wrecker company to keep the Alamo police department
informed of any changes in their drivers and to provide the city with evidence
of compliance with section 521.459 of the Transportation Code.
      3.   Each wrecker company on the rotation list must meet all vehicle
storage facility requirements as stated in section 18.91 of the Texas
department of transportation motor carrier rules and regulations and the
requirements of this chapter.
      4.   In addition to the minimum requirements for wreckers required in
this section, each wrecker company desiring to be on the voluntary wrecker
rotation list must possess at least one licensed wrecker not less than one and
one-half (1 1/2) tons in size, equipped with a power operated winch, lifting
capacity of not less than ten thousand (10,000) pounds, single line capacity.
   C.   Delinquent Taxes: No delinquent taxes shall be due the city upon any
wrecker company or vehicle storage facility for which such permit is sought,
and the owner thereof shall not have failed to render the amount due for ad
valorem taxation.
   D.   Fees:
      1.   Annual Fee: There is hereby imposed an annual fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) per wrecker company for each such company placed on the
wrecker rotation list.
      2.   Inspection Fee: There is hereby imposed an annual inspection fee of
thirty five dollars ($35.00) per wrecker unit for each unit of each wrecker
company on the city wrecker rotation list.
   E.   Licenses, Registration, Certificates: A copy of all current licenses,
registration and/or certificates issued by the state allowing the applicant to
operate a wrecker or a vehicle storage facility shall be required upon initial
application and upon payment of annual fees per wrecker company or wrecker
unit.
   F.   Company Identification; Temporary Signs Prohibited: Each wrecker unit
shall have the wrecker company's name, and telephone number of the business
operating the wrecker unit, permanently inscribed on each side of the cab of
the wrecker in letters no less than two inches (2") high in contrasting colors.
No temporary signs of any kind will be permitted.
   G.   Revocation: A certification to continue providing services on the
city's voluntary wrecker rotation list may be revoked for failure to meet and/
or maintain the required standards and regulations of state law and/or this
chapter.
   H.   Revocation Prohibits Continued Service: If a wrecker certification is
revoked, the wrecker will not be allowed to continue service on the city's
voluntary wrecker rotation list until an application for recertification is
made which application shall be acted upon, as soon as the wrecker company
produces proof of compliance with the required standards and regulations.
   I.   Vehicle Storage Facility: Any wrecker business desiring to be placed on
the city's voluntary wrecker rotation list shall maintain a state permitted
vehicle storage facility within the city limits of the city of Alamo, Texas.
   J.   Sharing Of Vehicle Storage Lots Prohibited: Two (2) wrecker companies
will not share the same vehicle storage facility lot. The size of the lot must
store not less than twenty five (25) vehicles at one time. All vehicles must be
impounded in a storage facility lot located in the city of Alamo and released
to the owner from the same lot. Payment for the release of the impounded
vehicles received by the wrecker company in the city of Alamo.
   K.   Wrecker Service Location: Any wrecker service wishing to provide
services on the city's voluntary wrecker rotation list shall maintain a place
of business for conducting business with citizens within the city limits of the
city of Alamo, Texas.
   L.   Compliance Required: All wrecker companies must agree to comply with
all sections of the Alamo police department wrecker ordinance/SOP, a copy of
which will be provided at time of application or annual renewal.
   M.   Response To Requests For Service Required: All wrecker companies
applying for placement on the voluntary wrecker rotation list must agree to
respond to all requests for wrecker service initiated by the city and must
abide by this chapter as well as all other applicable local, state and federal
laws and regulations. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-5: STATE INSPECTION REQUIRED; INSPECTION CERTIFICATE NONTRANSFERABLE:
   A.   Each application for placement upon the wrecker rotation list shall
state that each wrecker of the company has been inspected and approved under
the direction of the Texas department of public safety, and a current
inspection sticker shall be affixed securely to the inside of the windshield of
the wrecker vehicle. No person shall operate a wrecker on the wrecker rotation
list of the city unless a permit to engage in such activity has been issued to
such wrecker on rotation with the Alamo police department. No permit or safety
and insurance compliance inspection certificate shall be transferable, and
every permit and safety and insurance compliance inspection certificate shall
expire at twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on December 31 of the calendar year
in which issued. Each permit and safety and insurance compliance inspection
certificate will be void immediately upon expiration and/or cancellation at
which time any such wrecker shall no longer be used on rotation with the Alamo
police department, and the wrecker company shall return the permit and safety
and insurance compliance inspection certificate to the city police department
upon request. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-6: SUSPENSION AND/OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
For those wrecker companies engaged in providing services on the city's
voluntary rotation list, the companies may have their permits suspended and/or
revoked under the following conditions:
   A.   A wrecker company may have its permit suspended:
      1.   For seven (7) days for any violation of this chapter.
      2.   For twenty (20) days for a second or subsequent violation of this
chapter.
   B.   A wrecker company may have its permit revoked:
      1.   For a third or subsequent violation of this chapter.
      2.   If it causes or permits the operation of a city certified wrecker
either owned or contracted for, by an unlicensed driver on the public roadways.
      3.   If it causes or permits the operation of a wrecker (either owned or
contracted for) not certified by the city, on the public roadways.
      4.   If it fails to maintain in force the insurance required for the
operation of a wrecker company, vehicle storage facility or its wreckers as
required by the laws of Texas.
      5.   If it operates the wrecker company in any way which endangers the
life or safety of any person in any of the following ways:
         a.   The grossly negligent operation of a wrecker used by the wrecker
company.
         b.   Criminal assault committed by the permit holder, his agents, or
employees during the normal course of business. The chief of police shall not
revoke the permit if the permit holder permanently terminates the employment of
such employee immediately upon it becoming known to him that such conduct did
take place.
         c.   If it submits false information on the application to be placed
on the wrecker rotation list with the Alamo police department.
         d.   If it is convicted of a violation under this chapter.
         e.   If it is convicted of fraud or theft, as defined in the Texas
Penal Code, in the conduct or operation of the permit holder's wrecker company.
(Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-7: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT HEARING:
   A.   Upon complaint against a wrecker company or any agent or employee
thereof filed by any person with the chief of police or designated person, upon
his own motion charging violation of any of the terms of this chapter or any
ordinance of the city or laws of the state regulating motor vehicles or crimes
of moral turpitude or for good cause shown, the chief of police or designated
person after giving five (5) days' notice of such complaint to such wrecker
company, may hear evidence with reference to such complaint and after such
hearing the chief of police may revoke or suspend the authorization of the
wrecker service company to continue providing service on the city's voluntary
wrecker rotation list.
   B.   After the chief of police has reviewed the findings of the complaint
for suspension or revocation of the permit of any wrecker company, he shall
make a determination and declare such findings along with the terms, if any, of
the suspension of a temporary or permanent nature. The decision of the chief of
police shall be reduced to writing.
   C.   The decision of the chief of police under this section may be appealed
to the city manager, provided that notice of appeal be perfected within ten
(10) calendar days of the chief of police's decision. Notice of appeal is
perfected by sending a certified letter, return receipt requested, addressed to
the city manager of the city of Alamo, stating that an appeal from the decision
of the chief of police is desired. The city manager shall hold a hearing on the
matter within a reasonable time after receipt of such return and shall issue a
decision thereon within a reasonable time after such hearing.
   D.   The provisions of Enforcement Suspension or Revocation of Permit
Hearing for a wrecker permitted under the Conditional Use Permit process shall
defer such enforcement to the ordained CUP processes wherein the Police Chief's
assessment may be fully considered and acted upon. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011;
amd. Ord. 03-01-21, - -2021)
6-6-8: WRECKERS TO BE SUMMONED BY POLICE OR FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   No person shall drive a wrecker to or near the scene or site of an
accident or collision on the streets of the city unless such person has been
called by the police or fire department or by the owner or operator of a
vehicle involved in said collision; provided, that when it is necessary to
prevent death or bodily injury to any person involved in an accident or
collision, the prohibition in this section may be waived. The owner or operator
of a wrecker shall not use or act upon any information received on a radio
frequency of the police or fire department of the city for his own benefit or
the benefit of any other person in connection with the operation of a wrecker
business unless such owner or operator was called or summoned by the police or
fire department. If any wrecker appears at the scene of an accident or
collision, the owner or operator of which was not specifically called pursuant
to this section, it shall be conclusively presumed that such owner or operator
unlawfully intercepted and acted on the information transmitted by the police
or fire department on its radio frequency.
   B.   Wreckers summoned by the police department are subject to cancellation.
If canceled, the wrecker company will be placed back on the rotation list for
another call. Wreckers summoned to calls where the police have not arrived,
will not hook up the vehicle until the police arrive. Fees for nonhookups will
not be charged. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-9: SOLICITING WRECKER BUSINESS AT SCENE OF ACCIDENT PROHIBITED; PRESENCE AT
SCENE AS EVIDENCE OF VIOLATION:
No person shall solicit in any manner, directly or indirectly on the streets of
the city, the business of towing any vehicle which is wrecked or disabled on a
street, regardless of whether the solicitation is for the purpose of soliciting
the business of towing, removing, repairing, wrecking, storing, trading or
purchasing such vehicle. Proof of the presence of any person engaged in the
wrecker business or the presence of any wrecker or motor vehicle owned or
operated by any person engaged in the wrecker business, either as owner,
operator, employee or agent, on any public street of the city at or near the
scene or site of a wreck, accident or collision, within one hour after the
happening of a wreck, accident or collision, shall be prima facie evidence of a
solicitation in violation of this section. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-10: COMMUNICATION FROM THE POLICE OR FIRE DEPARTMENT RADIO FREQUENCY MAY
NOT BE INTERCEPTED, ETC.:
No owner of a wrecker company shall intercept any message emanating through the
medium of the police or fire department radio frequency or divulge or publish
the existence, contents, substance, purpose, effect, or meaning of such
intercepted communication; and no person, not being entitled thereto, shall
receive or assist in receiving any such message and use such message, or any
information therein contained, for his own benefit or for the benefit of
another person. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-11: VOLUNTARY WRECKER ROTATION LIST:
   A.   If the owner of a vehicle involved in an accident or collision is
physically unable to name the wrecker company desired, or declines to name one
or if the Alamo police department is called relating to a request for wrecker
service, the investigating or responding officer or employee shall cause the
request for wrecker service from the wrecker rotation list maintained by the
Alamo police department. Any wrecker company requesting to be placed on the
city wrecker rotation list shall meet the requirements as set out in section
6-6-4 of this chapter.
   B.   The owner or operator of the wrecker company shall immediately notify
the chief of police or his designated person, in writing, any changes in status
as it relates to any insurance, drivers, wreckers' registration, certificates,
permits or any factor that may impede its ability to comply with this chapter.
   C.   The owner or operator of each wrecker company on the wrecker rotation
list shall produce a monthly report, in writing, to the Alamo police department
on a form provided for that purpose, on the third Monday of each month listing
the status of any and all vehicles towed for the city that are considered
abandoned in their vehicle storage facility, after proper notification has been
given in accordance with the Transportation Code, subchapter C, vehicle
abandoned in storage facility, subsection 683.031.
   D.   On receiving a communication from the Alamo police department, the
wrecker company presently on call, or its duly authorized agent, shall tow the
disabled vehicle and remove such vehicle from the public streets of the city.
On each succeeding communication of the inability or refusal of an owner to
name a wrecker company, the next wrecker company on the list shall be called,
and proper rotation on such list, be on a per call basis for each wrecker
company holding a permit in accordance with procedures established by the chief
of police.
   E.   Inspections will be conducted periodically by officers of the Alamo
police department for insurance, inspection certificates and permits of
wreckers on rotation responding to calls for service. Wreckers that respond to
calls for the police department that do not have an issued permit on file, will
not be allowed to tow any vehicles. Violation of this chapter will result in a
complaint filed against the wrecker company. The designated officer or person
in charge of overseeing the wreckers on the rotation list can also upon request
check receipts at the vehicle storage facility. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-12: MAXIMUM RATES:
Those wrecker companies who volunteer to be on rotation agree to follow the
rates as set herein as a condition of being placed on the rotation list. The
maximum rates or fees authorized to be charged for the following enumerated
wrecker services, in response to a call from any employee of the city acting in
his official capacity, are as follows:
   A.   Class A: Base Fees For Vehicles Ten Thousand (10,000) Pounds Or Less:
      1.   Initial Base Fee Towing:
         a.   Non-accident Initial Towing Fee: $200.00.
         b.   Accident Initial Towing Fee (Range): max of $550.00.
      2.   Motorcycle Tow: $350.00.
      3.   Towing Vehicle From Outside City Limits: $150, plus $1.50 per mile
to and from site to VSF, plus $50/hour or portion thereof).
      4.   Note:
         a.   Dependent on the towing circumstance confronted with, see 'Other
Special Services and Fees' as they may be necessary to activate; also, the
Police Chief will annually assess the mileage (diesel) cost for possible
adjustment dependent on wavering cost/gallon patterns.
         b.   The City of Alamo's PD will continue to assess the fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per vehicle administrative processing fee.
   B.   Class B: Base Fee For Vehicles Ten Thousand (10,000) - Twenty-Six
Thousand (26,000) Pounds:
      1.   Initial Base Fee Towing:
         a.   Non-accident Initial Towing Fee: $650.00.
         b.   Accident Initial Towing Fee: $1,250.00.
      2.   Waiting Time (No Charge in First Hour; Fee Levied After First Hour):
$50.00.
      3.   Clean-up; Needful Extra Labor: $50.00.
      4.   Needed Equipment Rental: Cost plus 25% rental.
      5.   Note:
         a.   Dependent on the towing circumstance confronted with, see 'Other
Special Services and Fees' as they may be necessary to activate; also, the
Police Chief will annually assess the mileage (diesel) cost for possible
adjustment dependent on wavering cost/gallon patterns.
         b.   The City of Alamo's PD will continue to assess the fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per vehicle administrative processing fee.
   C.   Class C: Base Fees For Vehicles Twenty-Six Thousand (26,000) Plus
Pounds:
      1.   Non-accident Initial Towing Fee: $1,500.00.
      2.   Accident Initial Towing Fee: $2,000.00.
      3.   Due to the many weight sizes of vehicles that this category may
encompass for any multitude of challenging circumstances, it has been
determined that the following wrecker services shall be non-exclusive (no cap
on fees). However, the wrecker company shall provide a detailed and itemized
cost(s) for the service(s) provided; a copy which must be provided to the
Police Department's representative within twenty-four (24) hours of said
itemized invoice being completed. Such services include but are not limited to
the following:
         a.   Truck and driver waiting time after first hour;
         b.   Haul trailer or off-load cargo/pay-load trailer dollies (to move
semi-trailer);
         c.   Extra labor as needed (includes equipment operator);
         d.   Specialized Equipment (snatch block, cable, etc.);
         e.   Forklift Winching;
         f.   Haul truck and trailer;
         g.   Rental equipment; and
         h.   Debris removal.
      4.   Note:
         a.   Dependent on the towing circumstance confronted with, see 'Other
Special Services and Fees' as they may be necessary to activate; also, the
Police Chief will annually assess the mileage (diesel) cost for possible
adjustment dependent on wavering cost/gallon patterns.
         b.   The City of Alamo's PD will continue to assess the fifteen
dollars ($15.00) per vehicle administrative processing fee.
   D.   Other Special Services And Fees: The use of these items are permitted
at the rates shown, unless they have been specifically omitted from their fee
being levied in the Class A, B, or C categories
      1.   Dolly fee and/or skates: $75.00.
      2.   Ditch or San Pull/tow: Base Tow Fee plus $65.00.
      3.   Vehicle - No Keys: Base Fee of $50.00.
      4.   Remove Drive Shaft: Base Fee of $50.00.
      5.   Tow requires Replacing/inflating Tire and Tow Base Fee: $50.00.
      6.   Release of Personal Property before eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. or
after five o’clock (5:00) p.m.: $15.00 (No fee if release of personal property
is between eight o’clock (8:00) a.m. to five o’clock (5:00) p.m.).
      7.   Pick-up and delivery of vehicle to city warehouse or facility
         a.   Daytime (six o’clock (6:00) a.m. until six o’clock (6:00) p.m.):
$35.00.
         b.   Nighttime (6:01 p.m. until 5:59 a.m.): $50.00.
      8.   Note: Any wrecker towing within the City of Alamo, Texas (consent or
non-consent) must strictly follow the State of Texas and the Texas Department
of Licensing and Regulation (TDLR) guidelines and mandates for such services.
(Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011; amd. Ord. 31-06-21, 6-1-2021)
6-6-13: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
Each wrecker company that has been issued a permit by the police department
shall follow standard safety precautions and operation procedures generally
recognized in the wrecker business to and from and at the scene of an accident
or collision and shall comply with all traffic code ordinances of the city.
Each wrecker company at the scene of an accident or collision shall promptly
remove all debris from accidents or collisions occurring on the public right of
way. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-14: PENALTY:
   A.   Any owner of a wrecker company, agent or employee of a wrecker company,
driver or operator of a wrecker found guilty of violating this chapter or any
of the state laws, on complaint filed in municipal court or in any other court
of competent jurisdiction shall, upon finding of guilty, be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.   In addition to the remedies in this section, the city shall be entitled
to injunctive or other civil remedy in any court of competent jurisdiction in
accordance with the laws of the state. (Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
6-6-15: ESTABLISHING A LIMIT ON THE NUMBER OF WRECKER COMPANIES ON ROTATION
WITHIN THE CITY:
   A.   The number of wrecker companies on the rotation list shall be based on
the annual population census at one wrecker company per each full two thousand
(2,000) residents in population. After the initial list of wreckers, any
additions thereto or replacement of wreckers who lose their certification will
be made by the city manager after a list of certified wreckers is presented to
him by the chief of police.
   B.   The city planning department is hereby charged with the responsibility
of determining the yearly population of the city. Such report shall be
generated within the first six (6) months of each calendar year. Such
population report shall thereafter be approved by the board of commissioners at
a regular meeting of such board. The chief of police, or his designated
representative, shall not increase the number of wrecker companies until such
population report has received the approval of the board of commissioners.
(Ord. 01-02-11, 2-15-2011)
CHAPTER 7
BICYCLE CORRIDORS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Definitions
6-7-2: Bicycle Corridor Designation
6-7-3: Parking Of Motor Vehicles Prohibited On Designated Bicycle Corridors
6-7-4: Exceptions
6-7-5: Enforcement; Penalty
6-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A fire department or police vehicle and a
public or private ambulance.
   BICYCLE: A device that a person may ride and that is propelled by human
power and has two (2) tandem wheels at least one of which is more than fourteen
inches (14") in diameter.
   DESIGNATED BICYCLE CORRIDOR: Any public right of way within the corporate
limits of the city of Alamo designed and/or designated to accommodate self-
propelled vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every "vehicle", as herein defined, which is self-propelled
by an engine or motor. Without limitation, and by way of example only, motor
vehicle includes truck-tractors, trailers, semitrailers, house-trailers and
motorcycles.
   STREET: Any public right of way within the corporate limits of the city of
Alamo designed primarily for accommodating vehicular traffic, including any
unpaved portions thereof.
   VEHICLE: Every mechanical device, in, upon or by which any person or
property may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, which may be
required to be registered or licensed under the laws of this state including
motor vehicles, but excepting devices moved by human power or used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks. (Ord. 4-6-99, 4-6-1999)
6-7-2: BICYCLE CORRIDOR DESIGNATION:
The city of Alamo designates the following streets as a city bicycle corridor:
FM 495 within the city corporate limits from FM 907 to one-half (1/2) mile east
of Tower Road.
US Business 83 within the city corporate limits from east side of Cesar Chavez
Road to the west side of Whalen Road. (Ord. 4-6-99, 4-6-1999)
6-7-3: PARKING OF MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON DESIGNATED BICYCLE CORRIDORS:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any designated bicycle lane
or right of way in a designated bicycle corridor within the corporate limits of
the city of Alamo. All motor vehicle traffic is prohibited from parking unless
further excepted by this chapter. (Ord. 4-6-99, 4-6-1999)
6-7-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The operation of any emergency vehicles may be permitted on any bicycle lane
within the bicycle corridor within the corporate limits of the city of Alamo,
provided such emergency motor vehicle is being operated or parked for the
following limited purposes:
   A.   A bona fide business purpose requiring the use of emergency equipment,
such as, but not limited to, fire trucks, police cars, ambulances, or personnel
associated with the emergency; or
   B.   To provide emergency medical services or conduct rescue operations for
persons in health or life endangered situations; or
   C.   The operation of truck or commercial motor vehicles owned or operated
by the city of Alamo, or any of its lawful agents, while engaged in legitimate
governmental or proprietary function of the city of Alamo, such as, but not
limited to, public utilities, public works, police and fire activities, within
the city. (Ord. 4-6-99, 4-6-1999)
6-7-5: ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY:
The chief of police of the city of Alamo, or his designee, shall be the
principal agent for enforcement of this chapter, subject however, to the
exception that the chief of police in his discretion may temporarily appoint
another person to enforce this chapter. Any person who violates any provision
of this chapter, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of no less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for
each offense. Any person convicted under this chapter shall be liable for any
damages such person causes as a result of violating this chapter. It shall be
an affirmative defense of prosecution under this chapter that the person was
excused from compliance herewith because he was acting under the provisions set
forth in section
6-7-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 4-6-99, 4-6-1999)
CHAPTER 8
CELL PHONE AND PED POLICY
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Use Of A Commercial Mobile Service Device; Offense
6-8-3: Penalty
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
AUTHORIZED A person who is a law enforcement officer, firefighter, member of a
EMERGENCY  governmental emergency medical services function, or a member of a
PERSONNEL: governmental emergency management function such as Public Works.
AUTHORIZED A motor vehicle owned by the United States, the State of Texas, or a
GOVERNMENT political subdivision of the State of Texas.
VEHICLE:
           A self-contained piece of digital communication that is designed or
           intended to be transmitted to or from a wireless communication device,
ELECTRONIC other than a voice message. An electronic message includes, but is not
MESSAGE:   limited to, a text-based communication, a nonverbal message, an instant
           message or such other data that uses a commonly recognized electronic
           communications protocol.
           Speakerphone capability, a telephone attachment, or another function or
           other piece of equipment, regardless of whether permanently installed in or
HANDS-FREE on a portable electronic device or in a motor vehicle, that allows use of
DEVICE:    the portable electronic device without use of either of the operator’s
           hands, except to activate or deactivate a function of the portable
           electronic device or hands-free device. The term includes voice- operated
           technology and a push-to-talk function.
 
   November 2024
 
           A self-propelled vehicle, with an internal combustion engine or an electric
MOTOR      motor, that is designed to travel on public/private roads for the general
VEHICLE:   transportation of person(s) and/or goods including, but not limited to, cars,
           motorcycles, buses, trucks, vans, tractor-trailers, or any semblance of
           vehicles meeting this general criteria.
OPERATE OR To drive or be in physical control of a motor vehicle that is in motion.
OPERATING:
OPERATOR:  A person to drive or be in physical control of a motor vehicle that is in
           motion.
           A handheld mobile telephone, personal digital assistant, a hand-held music
PORTABLE   player, electronic reading device, laptop computer, a broadband personal
ELECTRONIC communication device, a global positioning or navigation system, an electronic
DEVICE:    game device, a portable computing device; or any other electronic device that
           diverts the operator’s attention and focus, though momentarily, away from
           driving.
ROADWAY:   Any public or private road or street designed for motorists to travel a motor
           vehicle on.
           Employing a Portable Electronic Device (PED) for any reason including, without
           limitation, the following activities while holding, operating, and/or trying to
           operate the PED: 1) dialing or terminating a phone call; 2) speaking into or
           listening to a conversation or a transmitted message; 3) viewing images, taking
           images, and/or transmitting electronic images; 4) entering or changing
USE:       information in a global positioning or navigation system or any software or
           application designed for navigation; 5) accessing or viewing an internet
           website or computer application; 6) playing a game or viewing someone else play
           a game; or 7) any other ‘use’ of a PED that may generally distract the operator
           of a motor vehicle from safe driving. (Ord. 13-01-11, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 139-
           10-2024, 10-15-2024)
 
6-8-2: USE OF PORTABLE ELECTRONIC DEVICE; OFFENSE:
   A.   Unlawful Use of Portable Electronic Device. It shall be unlawful for an
operator of a motor vehicle to use a portable electronic device to view, send,
or compose an electronic message; or manually engage other application software
features while operating a motor vehicle upon any public or private roadway in
the city, including when stopped, except as provided in subsection B2 of this
section.
   B.   Exceptions: it is an exception to the prohibition in subsection A of
this section if:
      1.   An operator of a motor vehicle uses a portable electronic device or
other wireless communication device to converse on a telephone call, or to
listen to a voicemail message, including dialing, or terminating a phone call;
      2.   An operator of a motor vehicle uses a portable electronic device or
other wireless communication device while safely stopped or standing in a
position parallel to and as close as reasonably possible to the right-hand curb
or roadway where parking, standing or stopping in a non-emergency situation is
not prohibited; or
      3.   An operator of a motor vehicle safely uses a portable electronic
device or other wireless communication device solely in a voice activated or
other hands-free mode.
   C.   Affirmative Defense: it is an affirmative defense to prosecution of
conduct prohibited in subsection A of this section if:
      1.   Authorized emergency personnel operating an authorized government
vehicle necessarily uses a portable electronic device or other wireless
communication device to respond to an emergency while acting in their official
capacity to address/resolve said emergency;
      2.   An operator of a motor vehicle uses a wireless communication device
to:
         a.   Operate only in a global positioning or navigation system;
         b.   Obtain emergency assistance by contacting: 1) an emergency
response service, including a rescue, emergency medical, or hazardous material
response; 2) a hospital; 3) a fire department; 4) a law enforcement agency; 5)
a medical doctor’s office; or 6) an individual to administer first aid
treatment;
         c.   Obtain emergency assistance to prevent a crime about to be
committed;
         d.   Report a traffic accident or serious traffic hazard; or
         e.   Communicate with the reasonable and urgent belief that a person’s
life, safety, or property is in immediate danger.
   D.   Conflicting Regulations: To the extent that any clause, phrase,
provision, sentence or part of this section conflicts with Texas Transportation
Code Section 545.424 regarding the use of wireless communication devices while
operating a motor vehicle by minors; or Texas Transportation Code Section
545.425, regarding the use of wireless communication devices in school crossing
zones, this Section does not apply.
   E.   After consulting with the Chief of Police, the City Manager is hereby
authorized to have the Public Works Department erect and/or install traffic
safety signs at locations determined to be in the City’s best interests, to
thus notify/warn motorists of the restrictions hereby ordained by these
regulations, State Law, or both. (Ord. 13-01-11, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 139-10-
24, 10-15-2024)
6-8-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty as provided in section
1-4-1  of this code. (Ord. 13-01-11, 11-1-2011; amd. Ord. 139-10-24, 10-15-
2024)
CHAPTER 9
SPEED BUMP POLICY
SECTION:
6-9-1: Speed Bump Policy
6-9-1:    SPEED BUMP POLICY:
The document entitled “Speed Bump Policy”, as amended, is incorporated herein
by reference for all purposes and is now hereby adopted.
(Ord. 87-3-24, 3-19-2024; amd. Ord. 112-7-24, 7-16-2024)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Street Classifications
7-1-2: Encroachments
7-1-3: Advertisements
7-1-4: Right-Of-Way Conveyance Process And Policy
7-1-5: Delegated Authority To Accept Dedicated Public Ways
7-1-1: STREET CLASSIFICATIONS:
   A.   Designations: Designation of street classifications shall be as
follows:
      1.   Arterials:
Alamo Road
Earling Road
FM 495
Loop 374 (Business 83)
Morningside Road
Ridge Road
Tower Road
      2.   Collectors:
Alamo Road
Border Road
Crockett/De Soto Avenue
Duranta Avenue
Eldora Road
Moore Road
Morningside Road
Nebraska Road
Sioux Road
Tower Road
Unnamed street midway between Alamo Road and Tower Road
Unnamed street midway between Morningside and Alamo Road
Unnamed street midway between Tower Road and Border Road
      3.   Local Roads: All streets not on the arterial or collector system.
   B.   New Developments:
      1.   New developments shall provide rights of way that are in line with
existing arterial and collector streets even if the arterial or collector is
not currently developed or dedicated on adjacent properties. (Ord. 87-09, 3-3-
1987)
      2.   The rights of way in all new developments and the design
specifications for all streets within the City and its statutorial jurisdiction
shall be as set out in subsection 11-3-4J of this Code. (Ord. 2-18-97A, 2-18-
1997)
      3.   Roadway standards shall be as follows measured from back of curb to
back of curb:
 
Arterials   64 feet
Collectors  52 feet
Locals      32 feet
 
      (Ord. 87-09, 3-3-1987; amd. Ord. 2-18-97A, 2-18-1997)
   C.   Thoroughfare Map: The City Engineer shall develop an official
thoroughfare map indicating the above designated streets and the required
rights of way. (Ord. 87-09, 3-3-1987)
7-1-2: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Encroachments Prohibited: Except for typical paved driveways or other
common improvements, e.g., mailboxes, etc., no person may erect, construct, or
permit to place any structure, obstruction, fence/wall (or portion thereof), or
other private object(s), in public rights of way (ROW), streets, or alleys
owned or controlled by the City of Alamo, Texas.
   B.   Exceptions: The City may issue building permits granting exceptions to
the above through the City of Alamo’s Board of Commissioners. During this
application process of requesting encroachment of private improvements on/over
public ROW, it is expected that the city will discuss, dissect, and discern
what is in the City’s best interests; but being allowed to factor in unique
private conditions that, should the permit be issued, would improve the
personal circumstances of the applicant; though for a limited period of
approved tenure.
   C.   Definition of Applicant: Applicant means the person making application
for a building permit hereunder.
   D.   Application for Permit:
      1.   The applicant for the building permit shall submit to the City’s
Community Planning and Development (CPD) Department the completed building
permit application along with detailed plans and specifications as are
necessary to fully explain the intent of the private improvement; accompanied
by a written summary on why it is perceived as ‘needed’-r and also stating that
if it is not approved, what would the repercussions be. The filing of such
application requires a permit administration processing fee of $75 (non-
refundable).
      2.   Should the proposed private improvements affect drainage in any
degree, then said plans, specifications and application must conclusively show,
or substantially show, that the proposed private improvements will in no way
interfere with the City of Alamo’s public use or purpose of its right of way,
street, or alley.
   E.   (Conditional) Approval Board of Commissioners shall then approve or
reject the permit, or modify the plans and specifications to allow a permit to
be conditionally issued.
   F.   Permit Fee: If the permit is (conditionally) granted, the applicant
shall pay the building permit fee pursuant to the typical permit fee rate
schedule, as if it was to be on private property. However, if there is no set
fee for the unique private improvement, then the fee shall be not less than $50
nor more than $200 (dependent on its scope), as determined by the CPD Director.
   G.   If the building permit is conditionally approved, the CPD Director
shall then inform the applicant within 2 working days after action is taken of
the City’s terms of approval, inclusive of any encumbrance agreement (or
similar document such as a Hold Harmless Agreement where the City of Alamo is
indemnified) that needs to be signed, notarized, and/or recorded at the County
of Hidalgo with recording costs fully borne by the applicant.
   H.   Terms and Conditions: The permit shall be subject to the following non
all- inclusive list of terms and conditions:
      1.   If applicable, the applicant will provide adequate traffic-safety
protection measures before, during, and if necessary, after the work involved
is completed; such measures will be discussed and agreed-upon with the Public
Works Department before the work commences. Compliance monitoring by the City
of Alamo will be expected; if violation is evident, immediate compliance will
be imposed. Should continued disobedience be evident and documented, then the
CPD Director may suspend the permit, but understanding that said permit be
reinstated upon clear compliance efforts.
      2.   Issuance of a permit grants the applicant permission to work within
the right of way, street, or alley, or other public place, for the purpose of
building/erecting a private improvement. It is always the inherent duty and
responsibility of the applicant or his agents to contact all utility companies
to determine the location of all utility lines that may be affected by the
proposed private improvements; and to make any necessary adjustments to their
scope of work to safeguard said utility infrastructure. In the event damage
occurs to said lines, it is the duty and full responsibility of the applicant
to immediately pay for the repair work involved, as determined by the affected
utility company, including any and all punitive/administrative/legal costs
involved.
      3.   Any damage to the right of way, street, or alley shall be repaired
by the City but the applicant shall immediately reimburse the City for the
materials cost thereof; and inclusive of calculated administrative costs,
equipment costs, labor costs, plus any other associated costs involved.
      4.   Maintenance of the permitted private improvements on public ROW
shall be the sole and perpetual responsibility of the applicant. The City of
Alamo shall not be responsible, in any degree, for any private improvement’s
repair and upkeep. Permitted private improvements shall and must always be
properly maintained by the applicant at all times.
      5.   All private work approved by the building permit, once issued, shall
be completed within ninety (90) calendar days from the date of issuance, though
the CPD Director may factor-in documented inclement weather days to fairly
provide for its completion.
      6.   If the private work done, as approved by the building permit
interferes and/or hampers with the City’s right of way, street or alley
maintenance and/or construction, the applicant, the authorized agent, and/or
his successors shall remove the private improvement(s) at his expense; and
return the public property’s condition back in a like manner as it was before
construction, or in a better condition than before the work involved.
      7.   All work authorized by the approved building permit shall be done
during dry weather.
      8.   All pre-existing trees and shrubbery shall remain undisturbed, but
unnecessary native shrubbery may be removed under the authorized supervision of
the City. Any shrubbery removed must be disposed of, and will not be authorized
to be re-planted or sold for private purposes.
      9.   Upon completion of the approved private work, the applicant shall
remove all excess earth and debris; and leave the right of way in a neat, clean
condition.
   I.   Term of Permit: All permits shall be valid for no longer than six (6)
months; work must commence within three (3) months; and be fully complete
within the 6-month validation tenure. The CPD Director is authorized to provide
one extension period of no more than three (3) consecutive months; after this
period, there will be no further extensions wherein if the work is not
completed, then the permit is automatically revoked.
   J.   Revocation of Permit:
      1.   The permit may be revoked at any time by the City for just cause
which is (photo) documented. Such revocation will be tendered by the CPD
Director; although he/she may, if deemed necessary, first confer with the City
Manager’s office for direction.
      2.   Failure of the applicant or his/her agent(s) to comply with any of
the City’s requirements and imposed conditions shall automatically void such
permit; especially after the City alerted the applicant/agent of its non-
compliant circumstance.
      3.   At any time the permit is no longer valid, the applicant and/or his
agent(s) shall immediately replace and repair City’s the right of way, street
and alley to the condition in which it was at the time of issuance of the
permit; or the City may perform such work and the applicant must immediately
pay the City the cost of such repair. The city will not be responsible for any
incidental during such demobilization efforts.
   K.   Penalties: The violation or breach by any person of any condition or
subsection of this Section shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1  of this Code. Each day in which a violation or breach occurs may be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 536; 1994 Code; amd. Ord. 140-10-24, 10-
15-2024)
7-1-3: ADVERTISEMENTS:
   A.   Prohibited Advertisements: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw
on any street in the City, or nail or tack upon the board or telephone or
electric light pole on any street, sidewalk or alley in the City, or distribute
in automobiles or other vehicles which may be parked on any streets, any form
of advertising. (Ord. 26, 7-3-26)
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the terms of this Section shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 26, 7-3-26; 1994 Code)
7-1-4: RIGHT-OF-WAY CONVEYANCE PROCESS AND POLICY:
   A.   When a request is made by a property owner, their agent, or assigned
representative to have the City of Alamo consider, in essence, conveying a
portion of its public right-of-way (ROW) to a private party, the following
process shall be activated:
      1.   Any request for partial ROW conveyance shall be done in a completed
and signed application form; said application form being provided by the City
of Alamo. A property owner may attach an additional, but brief, narrative
citing the reason(s) why they desire the surplus ROW, or other relevant data
thereto. Due to several department directors needing to perform extensive file
and field research of such requests, it is reasonable to levy a nominal
application fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) to activate the examination process.
This fee is non-refundable. It is further stated that the City shall not be
responsible to reimburse any applicant for any incidental cost(s) incurred
during any tenure of this process should he/she suspend, terminate, or cancel
the process.
      2.   The written request shall then be fully examined by City Staff,
including the Planning Director, the Public Works Director, the City Engineer,
and the City Manager or his/her designee. The examination may include visiting
with the inquiring party at the site, and may also include discussing the
matter with other utility franchise holders that may have a subsurface interest
in the subject ROW.
      3.   It is hereby declared that the City Manager or his/her designee
shall be integral to the ROW Conveyance Process and Policy; and as such, is
hereby delegated the authority to act justly on behalf of the Board of
Commissioners to pursue the needed and negotiating tasks incidental to this
policy's approved requests. It is further ordained that on all conveyance
applications, the City Manager's office or his/her designee shall submit an
annual report to the Board of Commissioners with Staff's specified
justifications to either approve or deny the request. The report, reflecting
full transparency and accountability, shall be provided within the first
quarter of each calendar year at a regular meeting of the Board of
Commissioners. If there are no requests for partial ROW conveyance in the
previous reporting year, then Management shall so indicate this in his/her
annual report.
      4.   Criteria that shall be considered by the City in the vetting process
shall include, but not be limited to, the following: confirming that the
subject property is indeed recorded and publicly dedicated right-of-way;
location of any existing utility infrastructure; the likelihood of still
needing the ROW for city services; the location of existing utility lines of
legitimate franchise holders; or other similar or potential uses. Staff shall
always be cognizant of what is in the city's best interests in such
deliberations. In this regard, it is firmly noted that in no case shall any ROW
be considered for conveyance if doing so will land-lock any adjoining
properties; or severely constrain public access onto said adjoiners. Also, if
the full ROW of a 'paper street' (a recorded street ROW but not paved/developed
as such) is requested by only one of the adjoining property owners, the City
shall first confer with the other adjoiner to ascertain their interest (or not)
on possible conveyance. If there is an interest by the other adjoining party to
purchase, then this may also be considered by the City of Alamo in its
examination.
      5.   After City Staff has concluded their internal assessment and a
consensus on the merits of the requested conveyance, the applicant shall be
informed, in writing, of the City's verdict.
         a.   Not Favored; Right To Appeal: If the verdict is to 'not convey',
then the applicant can accept the decision; or he/she may desire to appeal the
matter to the Board of Commissioners. Any and all appeals shall be in writing
with the applicant's justification as to why he/she feels that such a denial is
un-just and would not jeopardize the city's best interests. The fee to file an
appeal shall be a non-refundable fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00). Once a
written and complete appeal is received, the matter will be presented to the
Board of Commissioners for their review, assessment, and final action. If the
Board of Commissioners sustains the appeal, the Board shall specify the
conditions of conveyance. If the Board denies the appeal, the matter is closed.
No denied appeal shall be reconsidered by the Board of Commissioners until
twenty-four (24) consecutive months shall have first elapsed.
         b.   Favored: If the verdict by staff is 'to convey', then the
following measures shall be conditions of all approved conveyances:
            (1)   The applicant shall be informed that the City's ROW is a
(taxpayer) real estate asset to be purchased on a square footage basis. The
selling price shall be thirty percent (30%) of the HCAD-appraised price/square
foot of the applicants' adjoining property (improvements not factored-in). The
property's real estate appraised value per square foot that will be used shall
be identical as shown on the most prevailing Hidalgo County Appraisal
District's (HCAD's) records. This thirty percent (30%) of the appraised value
shall be the selling price, regardless if a utility easement, or other
encumbrance, is conditionally imposed on the surplus ROW.
            (2)   The applicant shall be informed that if there are delinquent
ad valorem city taxes (in arrears) applicable to his/her subject property
wherein the surplus ROW tract would abut, then all due property taxes shall
first be paid prior to any deed of conveyance is recorded. This required
condition shall be expressed in the Application form; thus, attesting full
disclosure and agreement by the applicant to abide thereby.
            (3)   The applicant shall privately engage a Registered Public Land
Surveyor (RPLS) to provide a hard-copy survey map with accompanying signed/
sealed metes and bounds description. The RPLS and the applicant shall meet with
a duly authorized City Staff representative in the field to properly coordinate
and confirm the extent of agreed conveyance.
            (4)   There will be legal fees incurred for correlating legal
services during the transaction process. As such, these costs will be borne by
the applicant. In this regard, the City Manager or his/her designee shall
provide the applicant with an estimated cost for the City Attorney's service
fees. This may be considered as an (initial) invoice. The applicant is to pre-
pay for the city's legal services in their quest for requested conveyance;
thus, the applicant shall pay the entire amount of the invoice prior to the
city activating the next step, being sub-section 5 below. If this service fee
is not pre-paid, the process shall be held in abeyance until full payment is
received by certified check or money order. If no payment is received within
one-hundred and twenty (120) calendar days from having received the estimated
legal costs, then the matter will be officially 'closed'. Any desire to
resurrect the same lapsed request shall require the applicant to start anew.
         (5)   Once the RPLS documents are provided to the City Manager's
office in three (3) hard copies and one (1) electronic file format, they will
be reviewed as to authenticity and accuracy, and in consultation with various
department directors. If in order, then the City will prepare the final
conveyance deed instrument. In promoting a streamlined process, the City
Manager's Office is highly encouraged to prepare and use any administrative
form(s) necessary to complete this conveyance process; and to structure same in
the most economical way possible for all parties involved.
         (6)   In the conveyance deed instrument, it is hereby declared that
the City of Alamo shall always have the inherent right to reserve most, if not
all, of the property being conveyed as a public utility easement. Furthermore,
other reasonable measures may also be imposed to retain and maximize the city's
best interests; such measures may include, but not be limited to, a specified
fence setback; a specified front setback (e.g., as to an open carport, etc.);
not having a permanent structure thereon (as to residential occupancy);
imposing indemnification unto the City for (non-living) structures; requiring
hold harmless protection unto the City and its franchise holders to continue
using the reserved easement but who may incidentally damage private
improvements by needful maintenance and/or replacement of buried
infrastructure, etc. In benefit to the applicant, the City of Alamo hereby
exempts conveyed surplus ROW tracts from the subdivision process should said
surplus tract only have minor non-occupancy structures, such as an open
carport. However, should there ever be a circumstance where there will be a
structure on the conveyed tract where part or all of it will include a living
area, then the subdivision ordinance will be fully complied with prior to
building permit issuance.
         (7)   Should surplus ROW be conveyed to an applicant who does not
(yet) hold a clear title of his/her adjoining property, i.e., the property has
a primary lien from a financial institution, the conveyed surplus ROW property
shall revert immediately back to the City of Alamo, Texas once the foreclosure
is completed. It is declared that any private structure(s) that may be existing
on the City's re-gained right-of-way tract shall be the property of the City of
Alamo as incidental collateral. The City of Alamo, through the City Manager's
Office, may undertake reasonable and fair measures to convey said structures to
others, inclusive of the new 'owner' of the foreclosed abutting property.
         (8)   In general, no surplus ROW tract shall be conveyed without an
explicit legal provision of having a driveway access easement perpetually
encumbered thereon.
         (9)   Once the deed instrument is administratively finalized, it will
be provided to the applicant who shall be given ample opportunity to review it
and/or forward it to his/her legal counsel. Once the applicant has
satisfactorily vetted the deed instrument, it may be executed by the
appropriate parties.
         (10)   Once the deed document is executed by the notarized signature
(s), the City will hold the signed document until all pending city fees, and/or
delinquent city taxes, if any, have been fully paid. This shall include
recording fees, postage fees, any lingering reimbursement service fees, etc.
Once the City is satisfied that all fees have been paid, the deed instrument
shall be sent to the County of Hidalgo for recordation.
(Ord. 18-04-21, - -2021; amd. Ord. 77-1-24, 1-16-2024)
7-1-5: DELEGATED AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT DEDICATED PUBLIC WAYS:
The Board of Commissioners hereby delegates its authority to the office of the
City Manager to review proposals by property owners desiring to dedicate public
ways in the form of public utility easements and/or Right-of-ways; and if such
requests are deemed to be in the City of Alamo’s best interests, then the City
Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to accept said proposals as ROW and/
or public easements. The City Manager is expected to consult with the City’s
consulting engineering firm and/or the Planning Director to help discern the
interest involved. If the proposal is determined to ‘not’ be in the city’s best
interests, then the request will be ‘Denied1 with the owner/agent being
promptly informed; whereafter, should the owner and/or agent desire to present
their proposal directly to the Board of Commissioners, then a filing fee of $50
shall be paid prior to the item appearing on the Commission’s agenda. The Board
of Commissioners will then review the proposal, and their action shall be final
and conclusive. The Board of Commissioners expresses that this delegation of
‘Acceptance’ authority bestowed to the City Manager’s Office shall be deemed
retroactive to previous acceptance actions by former or the current City
Manager to ROWs and/or public easements already dedicated of which the City is
the steward thereof. (Ord. 137-10-2024, 10-1-2024)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC LIBRARY 1
SECTION:
7-2-1: Department Created
7-2-2: Library Administrator
7-2-3: Gifts And Donations
7-2-4: Violation Of Lending Privileges
7-2-5: Neglect To Return Books, Etc.
7-2-6: Defacing Library Property
7-2-7: Penalties For Violations
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 5 of this Code for Library Board.
7-2-1: DEPARTMENT CREATED:
Pursuant to the Charter of the City, a department is hereby created within the
framework of the governmental organization of the City, which shall be known as
the Alamo Public Library and it shall function according to the laws of the
State 1 , the Charter of the City and the provisions of this enactment. (Ord.
734, 6-15-1982)
 
Notes
1 2. V.T.C.A., Local Government Code §315.005.
7-2-2: LIBRARY ADMINISTRATOR:
The position of Library Administrator is hereby created as the administrative
head of the Alamo Public Library, having department head status under the
control of the City Manager. (Ord. 734, 6-15-1982)
7-2-3: GIFTS AND DONATIONS:
The City hereby accepts all gifts and donations of books and equipment
heretofore made for the Alamo Public Library with grateful thanks to the donors
of books and time, and it is ordained that such books and equipment shall,
together with such additions as may be made, from time to time, constitute and
form the books and equipment of the Alamo Public Library. (Ord. 734, 6-15-1982)
7-2-4: VIOLATION OF LENDING PRIVILEGES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take from the public library any books,
pamphlet, periodical, paper, painting, print, tape, film or other property,
except in accordance with the rules of such library, as established from time
to time by the Library Administrator or the Library Board. (Ord. 05-21-96, 5-
21-1996)
7-2-5: NEGLECT TO RETURN BOOKS, ETC.:
It shall be unlawful for any person to take or borrow from the public library
any book, pamphlet, periodical, paper or other property and neglect to return
the same within the time period from the date of mailing a notice to such
person's address advising that the property has been overdue for a period as
set out in such letter. The Library Board may establish a fine system for the
return of an overdue book outside the requirements of a prosecution in
Municipal Court for violation hereof. Such fine may be established by the
Library Board from time to time and the Library Board may further provide that
no material may be lent to any person with an outstanding fine at the time of
the request to borrow items from the library. (Ord. 05-21-96, 5-21-1996)
7-2-6: DEFACING LIBRARY PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally cut, mutilate, mark, tear,
write upon, deface or otherwise destroy or injure in whole, or in part, any
book, pamphlet, periodical, map or document, picture, written or engraved or
printed paper or other property belonging to the public library. It shall be
unlawful for any person to allow such injury to be inflicted while such
property is in their custody. It shall be unlawful for any person to
intentionally mark or deface or in any way to injure the public library or any
part thereof, or any fixtures therein or appertaining thereto. (Ord. 05-21-96,
5-21-1996)
7-2-7: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS:
Any violations of the provisions of this Chapter shall be punishable upon
conviction in Municipal Court by a fine of not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00) for any violation thereof. Any penalty and prescription for violation
of this Chapter shall no way be interpreted to preclude prosecution by the
appropriate authorities of any person whose actions in violating such Chapter
constitute a Class B misdemeanor, Class A misdemeanor, or felony under the laws
of the State.
The penalties prescribed in this Section for violation of this Chapter should
not preclude a civil action for monetary damages or other relief brought by the
City against a person violating such Chapter or against the parent, guardian,
managing conservator, possessory conservator, or any other person having duty
of control and reasonable discipline of a child under the Family Code where
such child has violated the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 05-21-96, 5-21-
1996)
CHAPTER 3
COMMUNITY CENTER
SECTION:
7-3-1: Policies, Procedures And Rates
7-3-1: POLICIES, PROCEDURES AND RATES:
The Alamo Community Center shall be available to the general public; provided,
that: (Ord. 767, 9-20-1983)
   A.   Supervision: The office of the Utility Department shall be in charge of
renting and supervising the Alamo Community Center. (Ord. 09-05-95, 9-5-1995)
   B.   Use Restrictions:
      1.   The activities taking place shall be of a legal nature.
      2.   The person renting the Alamo Community Center shall not charge or
impose a cost upon other persons desiring to attend or participate in the
activity taking place.
      3.   The activity taking place shall not be of a profit-making nature.
      4.   There shall be no sale of items, goods, services, food or beverages
at the Alamo Community Center. (Ord. 767, 9-20-1983)
   C.   1. Rates And Charges: The rates and charges for use and cleanup of the
City Community Center shall be set by minute order of the Board of
Commissioners from time to time. (1994 Code)
      2.   Exempt From Charges: There will be no charge for any governmental
agency or community service organization for the use of the Alamo Community
Center for activities providing for general community involvement or
participation. (Ord. 09-05-95, 9-5-1995)
   D.   Procedures: The person desiring to rent the Alamo Community Center
shall pay the rental fee and cleaning deposit at least three (3) days prior to
the use of the building.
   E.   Cleanup:
      1.   If the person renting the Alamo Community Center does not provide
for the adequate cleanup of the building after the activity is over, the
cleaning deposit will be forfeited to the City.
      2.   The City shall provide for the inspection of the facility for
cleanup and damage prior to the return of the cleanup deposit.
   F.   Damages: The person renting the Alamo Community Center shall be liable
for any damages occurring during the activity. If damages are caused to the
building or other facilities, the City shall have the damage repaired and then
bill the person renting the center for the costs of repairs. (Ord. 767, 9-20-
1983)
CHAPTER 4
CITY SWIMMING POOL
SECTION:
7-4-1: Swimming Pool Rates
7-4-2: Rental Of Swimming Pool Facilities
7-4-1: SWIMMING POOL RATES:
The following rates shall be charged for the use of the swimming pool of the
city. (All nonprofit groups must be certified as per internal revenue service
requirements.)
Persons 5 years of age and older                   $ 1.00
Children 4 years of age and younger in little pool 0.25
Private party:                                      
 For 3 hours:                                      
  Resident                                       195.00
  Nonresident                                    225.00
  Nonprofit group                                160.00
 2 lifeguards                                     54.00
 
(Ord. 607, 6-7-1976; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 28-09-13, 9-24-2013)
7-4-2: RENTAL OF SWIMMING POOL FACILITIES:
Requests for rental of the swimming pool facilities shall be made at city hall
to the utility clerks. (1994 Code)
CHAPTER 5
IRRIGATION SYSTEM
SECTION:
7-5-1: Public Irrigation System
7-5-1: PUBLIC IRRIGATION SYSTEM:
   A.   System Constructed: From and after the time that water is made
available in underground pipelines to any particular lot or piece of property,
it shall be unlawful for the owner of such lot or piece of property to use or
attempt to use or irrigate through any canal, ditch or lateral or system of
canals, ditches or laterals, other than the underground irrigation system to be
built and constructed.
   B.   Unauthorized Use and Tampering Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any
person other than a duly authorized employee or agent of the City or County
Water Improvements District Number Two to open, close, regulate or in any way
tamper with any check- gates or valves or any other part of the underground
system to be constructed.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who, upon conviction, shall be found guilty of
violating this Section or any part hereof shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 132, 9-7-43; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Usage Rates
7-6-2: Restrictions And Regulations
7-6-3: Violation And Penalties
7-6-1: USAGE RATES:
   A.   City Park Pavilion/Ball Fields: The rate for usage of a city park
pavilion/ball field is as follows:
      1.   Usage of any available park pavilion shall incur a cost to any
person or group (NOTE: all non-profit group(s) must be certified as per
Internal Revenue Service requirements). The City’s park pavilions may be
temporarily rented by a ‘personal service’ business proprietor (exercise,
Zumba, dance, karate, or other similar service); but the City hereby prohibits
any retail use, food/beverage sales or similar such products/activity on such
properties, unless it is a city-sponsored civic event. Those who wish to use/
rent a park pavilion shall pay the following fee(s), which if City of Alamo
police officers are requested by the applicant to be assigned to provide
security during the events time period (pre and post tenure included), then the
applicant shall pay 100% of the calculated labor costs, which shall also
include vehicle presence/usage; plus pay a $100 administrative fee. Should the
applicant desire to engage private security officials, then such firm/officials
shall be subject to ‘clearance’ by the City of Alamo, Texas:
         a.   Resident: Cost shall be $75 per max of 4 hours + min. $50/hour
over (may pro-rate if less than 1 hour)
         b.   Non-resident: Cost shall be $85 max 4 hours + min. $50/hour over
(may pro-rate if less than 1 hour)
         c.   Non-profit group: Cost shall $200/day for maximum 6 hours; or
$300/8 hours + $50/hour (may pro-rate if less than 1 hour)
         d.   Alamo business: *Cost shall be $75/hour (Maximum of 3 hours) +
$50/hour over (may pro-rate if less than 1 hour)
         e.   Non-Alamo bus.: *Cost shall be $100/hour (maximum of 3 hours) +
$50/hour over (may pro-rate if less than 1 hour; however, if it takes longer
than 1 hour to depart, then impose $75/hour)
         f.   The Sports Complex Park Pavilion’s fees are as follows:
            (1)   Resident cost shall be $100/hour for maximum 6 hours, + $50/
hour over (may pro-rate if less than 1 hour; however, if it takes longer than 1
hour to depart, then impose rate of $75/hour)
            (2)   Non-resident: cost shall be $125/hour for maximum 6 hours, +
$50/hour over (may pro-rate if less than 1 hour; however, if it takes longer
than 1 hour to depart, then impose $75/hour rate)
            (3)   Non-profit: cost shall be $300/day (maximum 6 hours); or $350
for 8 hours per day + $50/hour over (may pro-rate if less than 1 hour)
            (4)   Alamo business: *Cost $100/hour (maximum of 3 hours) + $50/
hour over (may pro-rate if less than 1 hour)
            (5)   Non-Alamo business: “Cost shall be $150/hour (maximum of 3
hours) + $50/hour over (may pro-rate if less than 1 hour; however, if it takes
longer than 1 hour to depart, then impose $75/hour rate)
         *ONLY PERMITTED BETWEEN THE DAYTIME HOURS OF 9 A.M. THRU 4 P.M.
      2.   A refundable cost of $25 per event shall be charged to any person or
group who uses an city park pavilion to offset costs incurred by the City to
provide cleanup of the park area before and after usage.
      3.   Total cost to any person or group who uses any city park pavilion
shall be at charged as per Section
7-6-1 (A), and (B) of which is considered refundable if the park pavilion area
is left in a clean condition; clean condition being defined as no trash or
garbage lying about, cans and/or bottles deposited in a proper disposal unit,
trash/garbage bagged and stored and restroom areas left in a clean condition
(no trash on the floor, etc.). Should there be any disarray or discrepancy,
photo documentation shall be taken and the full $25 shall be retained by the
City of Alamo; there shall be no partial refundable cleanup deposit.
      4.   All park pavilions may be rented for use on a first come/first
served basis, and persons or groups who may wish to rent any park pavilion or
field must apply for dates at least three (3) weeks prior to the event through
the Utilities Billing Department located at City Hall, 420 North Tower Road,
Alamo, Texas 78516.
      5.   Furthermore, it is prohibited that the person or entity being rented
to, shall not turn around and rent it to others.
      6.   It is declared that the City of Alamo, Texas shall have the inherent
right to approve or disapprove any application considering such factors as
seasonal usage by the general public, public events, partnership events, and/or
other similar criteria.
      7.   Reservation of ball fields is accepted up to six (6) months in
advance of the reservation date. Ball fields for tournament use will require a
three hundred dollar ($300.00) refundable deposit at the time of the
reservation. Tournament leases must be paid in full thirty (30) days prior to
reserved date. Any cancellation by lessee less than thirty (30) days prior to
reserved date will forfeit date and any amount previously paid will not be
returned except for the refundable deposit. Tournament lessees must provide
proof of general liability coverage for scheduled event. Practice field lessees
must pay the full amount at the time of the reservation. There is no deposit
required for practice field lessees. There are no refunds for practice field
lessees in case of cancellation.
   Usage of ball field(s) shall incur a cost per day to any person or group
(all nonprofit group(s) must be certified as per internal revenue service
requirements) who wishes to use a ball field that cost being defined as
follows:
 
                    Resident            Nonresident         Nonprofit Group
Ball field use      $450.00 per field   $550.00 per field   $125.00 per field
Refundable deposit
(tournament use     $300.00 per event   $300.00 per event   $100.00 per event
only)
Concession stand
donation to Boys
And Girls Club      $300.00 per event   $300.00 per event   $100.00 per event
(tournament use
only)
Practice field no   $40.00 2 hour limit $40.00 2 hour limit $30.00 2 hour limit
lights
Practice field with $60.00 2 hour limit $60.00 2 hour limit $50.00 2 hour limit
lights
Daily rentals for
ball fields not     $40.00 per hour (2 hour maximum)
located at the
Sports Complex
 
      8.   The rental rate for each baseball cage, regardless of its physical
condition or weather. condition(s), shall be $20 per hour. Should the baseball
cage not be fully used for the entire hour, though weather conditions seem
tolerable, there shall be no (partial) rental refund.
      9.   Ball field(s) will be used for practice and tournaments only. Total
cost to any person or group who uses any city ball field shall be charged as
per subsection A5 of this section, and deposit is considered refundable if the
ball fields and area is left in a clean condition; “clean condition” being
defined as no trash or garbage lying about, cans and/or bottles deposited in a
proper disposal unit, trash/garbage properly bagged and stored and restroom
areas left in a clean condition (no trash on the ground, etc.).
      10.   All ball fields are leased for use on a first come, first serve
basis, and persons or groups who wish to lease ball fields must apply for dates
through the parks and recreation department. No glass containers or alcoholic
beverages are allowed on the premises.
   B.   Central Park Stage: The rate of usage of a Central Park stage is as
follows:
      1.   Cost: Usage of Central Park stage shall incur a cost per day to any
person or group (all nonprofit group(s) must be certified as per internal
revenue service requirements) who wishes to use the Central Park stage that
cost being defined as the following:
 
                Commercial      Resident        Nonresident     Nonprofit
7 hour maximum  $450.00         $300.00         $350.00         $200.00
lease
14 hour maximum 600.00          450.00          500.00          350.00
lease
Refundable      100.00          100.00          100.00          100.00
deposit
Bleacher (seat  $30.00 each     $20.00 each     $25.00 each     $10.00 each
40)
Portable
toilets         $75.00 each     $75.00 each     $75.00 each     $75.00 each
(required)
Security (may   $25.00 per hour $25.00 per hour $25.00 per hour $25.00 per hour
be required)
 
 
Availability: Monday - Thursday: 9:00 A.M. - 9:00 P.M.
             Friday - Sunday: 8:00 A.M. - 10:00 P.M.
 
      2.   Refundable Deposit: A refundable deposit cost of one hundred dollars
($100.00) per event shall be charged to any person or group who uses Central
Park stage to offset costs incurred by the city to provide cleanup of the stage
and park area after usage.
      3.   Clean Condition: Total cost to any person or group who uses Central
Park stage shall be charged as per subsections B1 and B2 (of which is
considered refundable) of this section, if the Central Park stage is in a clean
condition; “clean condition” being defined as no trash or garbage lying about,
cans and/or bottles deposited in a proper disposal unit, trash/garbage properly
bagged and stored and left in a clean condition. (Ord. 24-10-14, 10-21-2014)
      4.   Leasing Of Stage: Central Park stage shall be leased for use on a
first come, first served basis, and persons or groups who may wish to lease the
stage must apply for dates through the parks and recreation department. All
lessees must request official authorization from the city manager prior to use
of the Central Park stage. All lessees must provide proof of general liability
coverage for scheduled event. The application shall be made on a form prepared
by the city for such purpose and forwarded to the city manager for approval or
disapproval.
The city manager may decline to issue such a permit if determined:
         a.   That the purpose for which the public park property is to be used
is unlawful;
         b.   That the time, place or manner of use is likely to cause
substantial disturbance to persons residing in the surrounding area, or to
businesses, or is likely to result in damage to city property; or
         c.   For such other reason as the city manager, in his sole
discretion, may deem adequate.
         d.   Any applicant proposing the use of the park for any political
purposes must request official authorization from the city commission. (Ord.
23-12-16, 12-6-2016)
      5.   Reservation; Cancellation; Security: Reservation of Central Park
stage is accepted up to six (6) months in advance of reservation date. Stage
leases will require a one hundred dollar ($100.00) refundable deposit payable
at the time of reservation. Lease must be paid in full thirty (30) days prior
to reserved date. Any cancellation by lessee less than thirty (30) days prior
to reserved date will forfeit date and any amount previously paid will not be
returned except for the refundable deposit, security fees and any other
additional fees other than the stage lease fee. Rental fees will include stage
and electricity. Sound and lighting system is not provided. Bleachers are
optional and available for an additional fee. Portable toilets will be required
for all events for an additional fee and the quantity will be determined on the
projected attendance. Security may be required and based on the type of event.
Security rate is based on one officer per hour. The Alamo police department
will determine the number of officers that will be necessary in order to ensure
the safety of the public. Alcoholic beverages are prohibited on stage and park
area.
      6.   Central Park Benefit Plate Distribution Area Only: No cooking at
site permitted.
Distribution hours: Ten o’clock (10:00) A.M. to three o’clock (3:00) P.M. (5
hour maximum).
Benefit plates can be distributed at Central Park’s western corner (off 8th
Street) providing that users have registered with the parks and recreation
department before the event. Prospective park users must register for free in
order to secure date on event calendar. If date is taken, Central Park’s
eastern corner (off 7th Place) may be offered for secondary distribution area.
Park users must request official authorization from the city manager prior to
use of park for benefit plate distribution. Park users will be provided with a
list of park rules. (Ord. 24-10-14, 10-21-2014; amd. Ord. 23-12-16, 12-6-2016;
Ord. 11-02-22, 2-15-2022; Ord. 02.01.23, 1-17-2023; Ord. 119-9-24, 9-3-2024;
Ord. 136-10-24, 10-1-2024)
7-6-2: RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person or
persons to enter into or upon any of the parks and recreational facilities
owned by the city between the hours of ten o’clock (10:00) P.M. until six
o’clock (6:00) A.M. the following morning, unless otherwise posted by
appropriate lawful signs erected by the city.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section, as shown above, shall
not apply to the actual use of jogging trails, fitness facilities, and parking
areas when patrons use said parking incidental to such use. Further, this
section shall not apply to the authorized use of sports facilities equipped
with lights for their intended use, including, but not limited to, baseball and
softball diamonds, tennis courts and swimming pools, when their use beyond the
hours indicated in subsection A of this section is authorized in writing by the
Director of Parks and Recreation. Immediately upon such approval, the Police
Department and the City Manager’s office shall be notified of such
authorization.
   C.   Parking by patrons shall only occur in specifically striped areas of
the Parks’ parking lot, or in city authorized areas during special (overflow)
events that may occur from time to time, and as logistically needed. Needful
parking by patrons adjacent to public roads and streets may occur at their own
risk and pursuant to local traffic codes and fire-safety (fire lane)
regulations.
   D.   For purposes of enforcing the State Penal Code relating to activities
in parks or recreational facilities owned by the City of Alamo, all such parks
or recreational facilities are considered to be ‘public places’ as that term
relates to offenses in said State Penal Code. It is further declared that the
City of Alamo, Texas, its employees, authorized representatives, elected or
appointed officials, nor any of its agents shall be responsible or culpable for
any damage(s), loss(es), and/or injury/injuries seemingly caused on the grounds
of a City Park and/or on the grounds of a city recreational facility; because
any patron, regardless of age, should know and understand that they hold the
primary stewardship of risk to their own person and property when entering such
City Park or recreational facility.
   E.   No person or persons shall intentionally, maliciously, or even
accidentally, injure, damage, deface, mar or destroy any property owned,
operated or maintained by the Parks and Recreation Department of the City of
Alamo. This provision shall also be applicable to the owner(s) or caretaker(s)
of any pet(s) or animal(s) that may similarly cause such damage to the City’s
Park properties and amenities.
   F.   1. It shall be a violation of this section for anyone to operate,
drive, station or move any vehicles onto or upon any park or recreational area
owned, leased by, or operated by the parks and recreation department of the
city, except on areas of such parks or recreational areas clearly marked,
designated or defined as public roadways, streets, vehicle passageways or
parking areas, except for city vehicles or vehicles of another local
subdivision of this state, and then only to operate, repair, maintain or
inspect property under such subdivision control.
      2.   It shall be a violation of this section for anyone to operate,
drive, station or move any vehicles onto or upon any public roadways, streets,
vehicle passageways or parking areas within any park or recreational area
owned, leased by, or operated by the city or the parks and recreation
department in such a manner as to violate any of the provisions of title 6,
“Motor Vehicles And Traffic”, of this code, or any amendments to such title or
the provisions of any state law relating to the operation of motor vehicles as
incorporated within the provisions of title 6 of this code.
      3.   The speed limit in city parks, parking areas, and interior roadways
of such parks is hereby set at fifteen (15) miles per hour, and it shall be a
violation of this section to operate in any manner a vehicle in excess of such
speed limit.
   G.   1.   Any person, group or organization violating any of the provisions
of this section shall be subject to summary ejection from the facility in which
the violation occurs by either a member of the staff of the parks and
recreation department or a police officer of the city.
      2.   In addition to ejection, as provided in subsection G1 of this
section, the violation of any provisions of this section is declared to be
unlawful and a misdemeanor punishable as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this
code.
      3.   The provisions in this section of the two (2) remedies set out in
this section shall not be deemed to preclude the use of any other remedy at law
or equity to which the city may choose to resort to ensure that the provisions
of this section are not violated.
   H.    No Glass containers of any type are allowed on any city park at any
time other than within those buildings designated and operated as concession
stands, as authorized by the City of Alamo.
   I.   1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to take any dog(s), whether
under a leash or allowed to run at large, upon any city-owned park or
recreational facility at any time in which an organized athletic activity is
being conducted at the park or recreational facility, whether or not such
athletic activity is organized by the City, another authorized entity, or
another person(s).
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to take any dog and/or any other
animal upon any city owned park or recreational facility without making
adequate provision to ensure that said dog or animal is prevented from creating
an unclean environment in said city owned park or recreational facility and/or
without making adequate provision(s) to restore said park properties in a like
‘clean’ manner should said dog or animal create an unclean condition.
      3.    It shall be an affirmative defense to prosecution under this
section that the dog has been brought upon the premises of a park or
recreational facility during the periods prohibited under this section as a
legitimate accommodation of a person’s handicap such that the same would be
covered under the American with Disabilities Act (ADA).
   J.   1.   No person may possess or consume alcoholic beverages in a city
owned park or recreational facility during the time in which an organized
athletic activity is being conducted at that park or recreational facility,
whether or not such athletic activity is organized by the City, another entity,
or another person(s).
      2.   No person or persons shall possess or consume alcoholic beverages,
or partake of other intoxicating stimulants, to the degree of being in a
condition of ‘intoxication’ pursuant to the prevailing Penal polices as
enforced by the Alamo Police Department.
   K.   There shall be no person or person(s) undertaking any activity or
activities on a City Park or in its recreational facilities that may, under
normal and reasonable standards of behavior, be determined by the Alamo Parks &
Recreation Department or the Police Department or the City Manager’s Office, as
illicit, illegal, unsafe or unconventional/abnormal regarding expected and
reasonable use of such public park amenities other than what is typically
expected in such Parks and recreational facilities.
   L.   With so many type of variable scenarios of behaviors at City Parks or
its recreational facilities, it is hereby declared and ordained that the City
Manager’s Office, in consultation with the Parks & Recreation Director, shall
have the inherent and delegated authority to determine confronted circumstances
on a case-by-case basis as to being permitted or not, basing their
determination on reasonable precedence, safety toward patrons and patrons’
property, safety toward the Park’s amenities, health & hygiene considerations,
and/or other factors. (Ord. 26-12-03, 12-16-2003; amd. Ord. 12-02-22, 2-1-2022)
7-6-3: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person, group or organization violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to summary ejection from the facility in which
the violation occurs by either a member of the staff of the parks and
recreation department or a police officer of the city.
   B.   In addition to ejection, as provided in subsection A of this section,
the violation of any provisions of this chapter is declared to be unlawful and
a misdemeanor punishable as provided in title 1, chapter 4 of this code.
   C.   The provisions in this section of the two (2) remedies set out in this
section shall not be deemed to preclude the use of any other remedy at law or
equity to which the city may choose to resort to ensure that the provisions of
this chapter are not violated. (Ord. 06-02-16, 2-16-2016)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Public Works Department
8-1-2: Director Of Public Works (Rep. by Ord. 52-08-22; 8-2-2022)
8-1-3: Water Use Regulations
8-1-4: Fire Hydrant And Hose Standard
8-1-5: Unlawful Tampering, Damage And Obstruction
8-1-6: Trespassing On Waterworks Property
8-1-7: Right Of Entry
8-1-8: Late Payment Penalty
8-1-9: Violation And Penalties
8-1-1: PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT:
The waterworks system shall be under the control of the Public Works
Department. The purpose of the Department shall be to supply pure water to the
citizens of the City in as economical a manner as possible. (Ord. 199, 9-9-
1957; amd. 1994 Code)
8-1-2: DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS:
(Rep. by Ord. 52-08-22; 8-2-2022)
8-1-3: WATER USE REGULATIONS:
   A.   Water Connection Procedures:
      1.   Deposit Required: A deposit shall be required as provided in Section
8-5-1 of this Title.
      2.   Separate Connections: Except for one (1) single-dwelling residential
home existing on two (2) lots, no two (2) or more lots may use the same water
connection. If there are more than two (2) houses or buildings situated on any
one lot zoned R-2 that are occupied by different families, each house/building
must have a separate water meter connection.
      3.   Vacancy: In the event a user shall leave the City, notice shall be
given to the Utility Billing Department Supervisor who shall order a
disconnect. In the event a consumer does not notify the Utility Billing
Department Supervisor, it shall be logically determined that the consumer
desires continued water service, and a user charge shall be made accordingly.
      4.   Mandatory Use: All future subdivisions within the City of Alamo’s
water CCN shall be connected to City water facilities. All existing structures
on unsubdivided property which use water and are within Alamo’s water CCN shall
be connected to City-owned water facilities. No free service, nor free use, of
the City’s water facility will be permitted.
      5.   Services In Flood Plain Prohibited: The City is prohibited from
providing water services to any structure which did not exist in a designated
flood plain area on the date of public environmental notification of said
designated flood plain.
   B.   Meter Change: In the event a consumer desires a meter changed from one
use, structure, building or lot to another, he/she shall make a request,
preferably in writing, to the Water Billing Department and, after full payment
of all the associated costs of such change is made, inclusive of paying for the
increased number of water meters, saddles, projected boring cost, paving cost
to repair an open cut, and including other service related matters, then the
Water Billing Department shall notify the Public Works Department of the work
order generated. The Public Works Department will then schedule the work order
to be complied with. No work order shall be performed on any property or under
any circumstances without first having the associated costs fully paid for
first. It is further declared that should any water line or similar utility
infrastructure be damaged by a lot owner, a contractor/subcontractor, or any
other representative from the property owner, such repair shall be performed
immediately by the private party; however, should the City’s Public Works
Department need to repair or fix the damaged utility based on a semi-emergency
nature of the disrepair, e.g., plugging a leaking water line, then the lot
owner, contractor/subcontractor or other representative, shall be responsible
to reimburse the City of Alamo for the work performed, inclusive of the city
using its equipment and associated products, plus any needful use of overtime
wages. Should the demand for reimbursement not be paid within 30-calendar days,
this provision authorizes the Public Works Department, the Building Official,
and/or the Code Enforcement Officer to impose reasonable measures to induce
payment including, but not limited to, issuing a ‘Stop Work’ order, or
withholding the structure’s ‘Final Approval’ or its ‘Final Occupancy’; the city
may also induce the procedural protocol in activating the Municipal Court
process, as well.
   C.   Disputes: In the event that there should arise any disputes with water
consumers in connection with service, connections, disconnections,
circumstances relating to (alleged) leaks, related policy fees and their
procedural application, etc., which cannot be settled by the Director of Public
Works and/or the Utility Billing Department Supervisor, such shall be submitted
to the City Manger’s Office to fully assess the circumstances of the matter,
and resolve as justly as possible on a solution which shall be deemed ‘Final’,
i.e., there shall be no appeal.
   D.   Change In Ownership Of Property:Notice To City: In the event that any
person shall sell, rent, lease or otherwise dispose of his/her property, such
person must, within three (3) days after such disposition of his/her property,
so notify the Utility Billing Department Supervisor. After the payment of all
bills which may be due by such person, he/her may be entitled to a return of
his/her deposit minus a nominal twenty-five dollar ($25.00) ‘City of Alamo’
administrative refund processing fee. Should such person fail to do so, he/her
shall be considered as responsible for the water bill as it may continue
accruing thereafter. Note: Should the deposit not have sufficient funds to pay
the twenty-five dollar ($25.00) administrative refund processing fee, then it
is more cost-effective for the City of Alamo to absorb said fee.
   E.   Right Of Entry: The employees of the city shall have the right to enter
upon any premises for the purpose of inspecting, repairing, installing any
fixtures, pipe, etc., that may be required, to read meters and to do any other
matters that may be necessary to operate an efficient, economical water
department.
   F.   Utility Billing Procedures/Late Payment Penalty: Bills are sent out
biweekly, consisting of two (2) billing cycles, with payment due fifteen (15)
calendar days after the reading date.
   All services including water, sewer, refuse and brush will be billed
together under a customer account and be paid in a timely manner as established
by these regulations to be current.
   As per ordinance requirements, all services will be billed if a livable
house exists and the water service is being provided and in the case of a
vacant house or lot, sewer, water and brush will be billed with no exceptions
being made as long as the water service is being provided.
   Brush service will be provided only if a utility account is established and
location is within the corporate city limits.
   A vacated premises rate is available that will remove only the garbage
service charge during a period of time in which the customer has vacated their
premises for a period greater than thirty (30) days and has notified customer
billing in advance requesting such fee waiver.
   The customer must also provide a return date upon which garbage service fees
will automatically be reassessed. The date of reassessment shall be subject to
audit with a prorated fee adjustment charged if audit determines that customer
returned prior to the date provided.
   G.   Termination Notices/Disconnects: Termination notices for accounts with
a total outstanding balance of sixty dollars ($60.00) or more are sent out
fifteen (15) days after the original bill notifying the customer of disconnect
on the determined final disconnect date. Customers will be provided a period of
no less than ten (10) calendar days before disconnection of services.
   H.   Payment Extension: Payment extensions beyond the final due date will be
allowed for a period of no more than five (5) total additional days starting
from the day after the final due date. A five dollar ($5.00) extension
arrangements fee shall be paid to enable such extensions.
   In cases where the customer’s bill is three (3) times greater than normal
due to a leak on the customer’s side, customer oversight or other reasons that
are not the responsibility or fault of the city, the customer may request
installment payment arrangements of generally up to three (3) months for the
portion of the bill above the prior three (3) month average. An installment
arrangements fee of five dollars ($5.00) shall be paid to enable the
installment arrangements.
   I.   Disconnect Processing Fee: Accounts that are not paid by the final due
date or final extension date must pay a disconnect processing fee of thirty
dollars ($30.00), and must pay the entire delinquent balance in order to have
water services restored/reconnected if they have already been disconnected or
to avoid disconnection. Regarding the disconnect processing fee, the City of
Alamo desires to have a measure of sensitivity to its account holders; thus, it
shall hereafter be the city’s policy that the disconnect processing fee shall
be ‘waived’ once per each calendar (Jan thru Dec) year. It is further ordained
that a subsequent waiver for the next calendar year shall not occur if within
six (6) months from the previous waiver awarded.
   J.   Transfer Fees: Customers transferring to another address can transfer
their current deposit, but will have to pay a forty dollars ($40.00) reconnect
charge for the new location. Any past due balance on the old account must be
paid in full prior to the transfer. The old location can be left open for a
period of no longer than seven (7) calendar days from the date of request. This
is allowed in cases where customers move out from one location and need water
services for cleaning purposes. No customer can have two (2) accounts open
without the proper connect fee and deposit for more than seven (7) calendar
days.
   K.   Return Checks: Any utility payment that has been returned unpaid by the
financial institution will be reversed on the customer’s account and a thirty
five dollar ($35.00) returned check fee will be applied to the balance. All
checks will be processed through the financial institution only once. Any
customer with a total of three (3) returned checks at any time during the
course of their account with the city, will be required to pay in cash or money
order for future services and no further checks will be accepted. In addition,
checks will not be accepted for returned checks, only cash, cashier checks,
and/or money orders.
   L.   After Hour Reconnect: Weekend, holiday and/or after regular business
hour reconnection services will be provided at a forty dollars ($40.00)
reconnection fee. The employee to conduct reconnection must get direct verbal
authorization from the Utility Billing Department Supervisor, Director of
Public Works, or the City Manager, or authorized staff as may be assigned by
said personnel. The employee must turn in written documentation of the
reconnection to the utility billing office by eight thirty o’clock (8:30) A.M.
on the next regular business day. If payment from the reconnected customer is
not received by five o’clock (5:00) P.M. on the next regular business day from
the reconnection date, water services will be disconnected and an additional
forty dollars ($40.00) reconnection staff service charge will apply with no
further reconnection of water services made until full and complete payment is
received.
   M.   Straight (Bypass) Connections: Whenever the situation involves straight
or bypass connections, the matter will be immediately reported and turned over
to the Alamo police department for investigation and to prepare a thorough
report that will be used in the city’s prosecution efforts. In addition hereto,
the city of Alamo will resort to every available legal recourse to obtain a
conviction for theft of city services and any applicable fines will be assessed
through the Municipal Court process.
   N.   Tampering With Meter: Water meters disconnected for nonpayment will be
secured with a locking device or will be plugged at the water line. Any
tampering with locking devices and/or the water meter will result in a one
hundred dollars ($100.00) tampering fee. Additionally, the city of Alamo does
maintain its right to file a complaint with the municipal court for violations
of an established city ordinance and assess applicable fines, if deemed
appropriate, and pursue every legal remedy available.
   O.   Adjustment To Account: If a meter is found to be registering beyond
three percent (3%) fast the account will be granted an adjustment. This
adjustment will be determined by calculating the last six (6) months’ usage and
arriving at an average. This type of adjustment will be calculated by the
utility billing supervisor, reviewed by the finance director and approved by
the city manager.
   In the event of a bill error due to a misread, the utility billing
supervisor will process an adjustment using the bill reversal option in the
utility billing software which will calculate a new and correct bill for the
customer and create an audit trail in the billing history. This adjustment will
be reviewed by the finance director and approved by the city manager.
   Any adjustment may not be granted solely upon request but until all avenues
to determine cause and responsibility have been exhausted such as rereads,
meter tests and detection of water leaks. All adjustments will be calculated by
the utility billing supervisor, reviewed by the finance director and approved
or disapproved by the city manager.
   P.   Water Meter Connections: On the effective passage date hereof, utility
accounts may be established under renters as attested/permitted in Section
8-5-1(A) for properties zoned and/or used for apartments only. In all other
zoning districts, it shall be the property owner that will have the right to
establish a utility account on their property; in this regard, the City of
Alamo’s utility billing department will only accept utility deposits from the
property owner of the location needing the utility service. Property owners
must submit ownership documents that match property tax records in order to
open water service. (Ord. 199, 9-9-1957; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 1-6-98, 1-6-1998;
Ord. 17-09-14, 9-2-2014; Ord. 40-08-21, 8-3-2021; Ord. 67-11-23; 11-6-2023;
Ord. 157-01-25, 1-7-2025)
8-1-4: FIRE HYDRANT AND HOSE STANDARD:
National standard hose threads will forever be maintained and all future
purchases by the city of fire hydrants and fire hose will be equipped with the
national standard hose connections in strict accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Texas fire insurance department. (Res., 4-5-1929)
8-1-5: UNLAWFUL TAMPERING, DAMAGE AND OBSTRUCTION:
   A.   No person or persons shall tamper with any valve or water meter or any
associated utility connection belonging to the city or any utility equipment or
fixture under the legal stewardship of the City.
   B.   Metering Devices;
      1.   The willful or negligent damage, or intent to cause damage, on any
city water metering device or associated utility connection is unlawful.
      2.   Tampering with any city water metering device is unlawful.
“Tampering”, as that term is used herein, is the unauthorized touching,
damaging, taking, or meddling with any metering device regardless if said
tampering has the effect or not of mis-reading the meter and/or damaging the
meter’s effectiveness of accurately reading its intended service.
      3.   It shall be unlawful for anyone to willfully, or inadvertently,
obstructor impede access to any water meter or metering devices at any time so
as to interfere with the City’s need to read, service, repair, replace, and/or
provide any other service pursuant to its Codes and policies.
   C.   Fire Hydrants:
      1.   Unauthorized Use Prohibited: The unauthorized turning on of fire
hydrants belonging to the city causing water to flow therefrom is hereby
prohibited and declared a criminal offense.
      2.   Cumulative: This subsection C is cumulative of any other laws or
ordinances covering this subject matter, and any conflicts with other similar
ordinances or statutes shall be resolved in favor of the ordinance or statute
providing for the higher penalty for such offense.
      3.   Water Meters; Deposits; Forfeiture Of Deposits:
         a.   The city of Alamo will impose a deposit fee of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) to any person, firm or corporation wishing to obtain potable
water from a fire hydrant through the means of a water meter. Such deposit will
be paid at the utility billing office prior to the installation of such meter.
Upon installation of water meter the person, firm or corporation using such
water meter will not have the authority to remove or relocate meter and must
have water meter accessible to obtain monthly meter readings for billing
purposes.
         b.   The person, firm or corporation paying such deposit will be
responsible for the water meter in case of loss, theft, and damage of meter
until which time a disconnect work order is requested.
         c.   In the event of loss, theft, or damage beyond repair to the water
meter, the person, firm or corporation will forfeit the deposit in its
entirety.
         d.   In cases where minor and reparable damage has occurred to the
water meter, city staff will have the prerogative to evaluate the damage and
arrive at an amount which will cover all costs to repair. Said amount will then
be deducted from the deposit in addition to any unpaid utility bills and only
the remaining amount will be refunded. (Ord. 749, 10-28-1982; amd. Ord. 8-18-
92D, 8-18-1992; 1994 Code; Ord. 12-7-99, 12-7-1999; Ord. 189-07-25, 7-15-2025)
8-1-6: TRESPASSING ON WATERWORKS PROPERTY:
   A.   Trespass Prohibited: Trespassing upon the S1/2 of block 62, known as
the city waterworks property, is hereby prohibited. However, this shall not in
any manner affect parties who enter upon said premises for business purposes
and at the invitation of the proper officials of the city.
   B.   Recreation Prohibited: It is further prohibited the entrance of any
persons upon said premises for recreational purposes. By "recreational
purposes", it is meant fishing, swimming, boating, loitering, conducting
barbecues, picnics and similar activities.
   C.   Signs: The mayor shall cause appropriate signs to be placed on and
marking the boundaries of said sanitary zone, such signs to warn the public of
the acts prohibited within said zone and that a penalty is provided for the
violation thereof. (Ord. 119, 5-2-1941; amd. 1994 Code)
8-1-7: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The employees of the city shall have the right to enter upon any premises for
the purpose of inspecting, repairing and installing any fixtures, pipe, etc.,
that may be required to operate an efficient, economical water department.
(Ord. 199, 9-9-1957)
8-1-8: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
Any person failing to pay his water bill shall be subject to the provisions of
subsection 8-1-3F of this chapter. (Ord. 199, 9-9-1957; amd. 1994 Code; Ord.
17-09-14, 9-2-2014)
8-1-9: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise provided, any person who shall violate any provision of this
chapter or fail to comply with any order made hereunder shall, for each and
every such violation and noncompliance, be guilty of a misdemeanor subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 199, 9-9-1957; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 1A
WATER USE AND SERVICE
ARTICLE A. DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
SECTION:
8-1A-1: Declaration Of Policy, Purpose, And Intent
8-1A-2: Public Involvement
8-1A-3: Public Education
8-1A-4: Coordination With Regional Water Planning Groups
8-1A-5: Authorization
8-1A-6: Application
8-1A-7: Definitions
8-1A-8: Criteria For Initiation And Termination Of Drought Response Stages
8-1A-9: Drought Response Stages
8-1A-10: Enforcement
8-1A-11: Variances
8-1A-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY, PURPOSE, AND INTENT:
In order to conserve the available water supply and protect the integrity of
water supply facilities, with particular regard for domestic water use,
sanitation, and fire protection, and to protect and preserve public health,
welfare, and safety and minimize the adverse impacts of water supply shortage
or other water supply emergency conditions, the City of Alamo hereby adopts the
following regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of
water.
Water uses regulated or prohibited under this Drought Contingency Plan (the
plan) are considered to be non-essential and continuation of such uses during
times of water shortage or other emergency water supply condition are deemed to
constitute a waste of water which subjects the offender(s) to penalties as
defined in section
8-1A-10 of this article. (Ord. 09-06-19, 6-18-2019)
8-1A-2: PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT:
Opportunity for the public to provide input into the preparation of the plan
was provided by the City of Alamo by means of a City Commission meeting. (Ord.
09-06-19, 6-18-2019)
8-1A-3: PUBLIC EDUCATION:
The City of Alamo will periodically provide the public with information about
the plan, including information about the conditions under which each stage of
the plan is to be initiated or terminated and the drought response measures to
be implemented in each stage. This information will be provided by means of
utility bill inserts. (Ord. 09-06-19, 6-18-2019)
8-1A-4: COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUPS:
The service area of the City of Alamo is located within the Rio Grande Regional
Water Planning Group Region M and the City of Alamo has provided a copy of this
plan to the Rio Grande Regional Water Planning Group Region M. (Ord. 09-06-19,
6-18-2019)
8-1A-5: AUTHORIZATION:
The City Manager, or his/her designee is hereby authorized and directed to
implement the applicable provisions of this plan upon determination that such
implementation is necessary to protect public health, safety, and welfare. The
City Manager or his/her designee shall have the authority to initiate or
terminate drought or other water supply emergency response measures as
described in this plan. (Ord. 09-06-19, 6-18-2019)
8-1A-6: APPLICATION:
The provisions of this plan shall apply to all persons, customers, and property
utilizing water provided by the City of Alamo. The terms "person" and
"customer" as used in the plan include individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, and all other legal entities. (Ord. 09-06-19, 6-18-2019)
8-1A-7: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this plan, the following definitions shall apply:
   AESTHETIC WATER USE: Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools, and water gardens.
   COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE: Water use which is integral to the
operations of commercial and non-profit establishments and governmental
entities such as retail establishments, hotels and motels, restaurants, and
office buildings.
   CONSERVATION: Those practices, techniques, and technologies that reduce the
consumption of water, reduce the loss or waste of water, improve the efficiency
in the use of water or increase the recycling and reuse of water so that a
supply is conserved and made available for future or alternative uses.
   CUSTOMER: Any person, company, or organization using water supplied by the
City of Alamo.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE: Water use for personal needs or for household or
sanitary purposes such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation, or
for cleaning a residence, business, industry, or institution.
   EVEN NUMBER ADDRESS: Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route
numbers ending in 0, 2, 4, 6, or 8 and locations without addresses.
   INDUSTRIAL WATER USE: The use of water in processes designed to convert
materials of lower value into forms having greater usability and value.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION USE: Water used for the irrigation and maintenance of
landscaped areas, whether publicly or privately owned, including residential
and commercial lawns, gardens, golf courses, parks, and rights-of-way and
medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE: Water uses that are not essential or required for
the protection of public health, safety, and welfare, including:
   A.   Irrigation of landscape areas, including parks, athletic fields, and
golf courses, except otherwise provided under this plan;
   B.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle;
   C.   Use of water to wash down any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking
lots, tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
   D.   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes other
than fire protection;
   E.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any gutter
or street;
   F.   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor swimming
pools or jacuzzi- type pools;
   G.   Use of water in a fountain or pond for aesthetic or scenic purposes
except where necessary to support aquatic life;
   H.   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable period
after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s); and
   I.   Use of water from hydrants for construction purposes or any other
purposes other than fire fighting.
   ODD NUMBERED ADDRESS: Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route
numbers ending in 1, 3, 5, 7 or 9. (Ord. 09-06-19, 6-18-2019)
8-1A-8: CRITERIA FOR INITIATION AND TERMINATION OF DROUGHT RESPONSE STAGES:
The City Manager or his/her designee shall monitor water supply and/or demand
conditions on a daily basis and shall determine when conditions warrant
initiation or termination of each stage of the plan. Public notification of the
initiation or termination of drought response stages shall be by means of
notification on utility bill and publication in a newspaper of general
circulation and signs posted in public places.
The triggering criteria described below is based on lack of sufficient water
for continued normal use considering future supply.
   A.   Stage 1 triggers - mild water shortage conditions:
      1.   Requirements for initiation: Customers shall be requested to
voluntarily conserve water and adhere to the prescribed restrictions on certain
water uses, annually, beginning on May 1 through September 30.
      2.   Requirements for termination: Stage 1 of the plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of seven (7) consecutive days.
   B.   Stage 2 triggers - moderate water shortage conditions:
      1.   Requirements for initiation: Customers shall be required to comply
with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water uses
provided in section
8-1A-9 of this article when the daily water use equals or exceeds eighty five
percent (85%) of treatment capacity for seven (7) consecutive days or if
conditions of the Rio Grande River warrant this action.
      2.   Requirements for termination: Stage 2 of the plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of seven (7) consecutive days. Upon termination of stage 2, stage 1
becomes operative.
   C.   Stage 3 triggers - severe water shortage conditions:
      1.   Requirements for initiation: Customers shall be required to comply
with the requirements and restrictions on certain non- essential water uses for
stage 3 of this plan when the daily water use equals or exceeds ninety five
percent (95%) of treatment capacity for seven (7) consecutive days and/or
reservoir levels continually recede on a daily basis and remain below seventy
five percent (75%) of storage capacity for forty eight (48) consecutive hours,
and/or water pressure below twenty (20) psi occurs in the distribution system.
      2.   Requirements for termination: Stage 3 of the plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of seven (7) consecutive days. Upon termination of stage 3, stage 2
becomes operative.
   D.   Stage 4 triggers - critical water shortage conditions:
      1.   Requirements for initiation: Customers shall be required to comply
with the requirements and restrictions on certain non- essential water uses for
stage 4 of this plan when daily water use equals or exceeds one hundred twenty
percent (120%) of treatment capacity for three (3) consecutive days and/or the
reservoir levels continually recede on a daily basis and remain below fifty
percent (50%) storage capacity for twenty four (24) consecutive hours and/or
water pressure below twenty (20) psi occurs in the distribution system and the
City Manager determines that such conditions are a hazard to public health and
safety. Critical drought or system limitation conditions will be in effect upon
the occurrence of limitations on the availability of raw water for prolonged
periods and the City Manager determines that such conditions are a hazard to
public health and safety.
      2.   Requirements for termination: Stage 4 of the plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of seven (7) consecutive days. Upon termination of stage 4, stage 3
becomes operative.
   E.   Stage 5 triggers - emergency water shortage conditions:
      1.   Requirements for initiation: Customers shall be required to comply
with the requirements and restrictions for stage 5 of this plan when the City
Manager, or his/her designee, determines that a water supply emergency exists
based on:
         a.   Major water line breaks, or pump or system failures occur, which
cause unprecedented loss of capability to provide water service; or
         b.   Natural or man-made contamination of the water supply source(s).
      2.   Requirements for termination: Stage 5 of the plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of seven (7) consecutive days.
   F.   Stage 6 triggers - water allocation:
      1.   Requirements for initiation: Customers shall be required to comply
with the water allocation plan prescribed in section
8-1A-9 of this article and comply with the requirements and restrictions for
stage 5 of this plan when system facility capacity limitations are exceeded.
      2.   Requirements for termination: Water allocation may be rescinded when
all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for a
period of three (3) consecutive days. (Ord. 09-06-19, 6-18-2019)
8-1A-9: DROUGHT RESPONSE STAGES:
   A.   Notifications: The City Manager, or his/her designee, shall monitor
water supply and/or demand conditions on a daily basis and, in accordance with
the triggering criteria set forth in section
8-1A-8 of this article, shall determine that a mild, moderate, severe,
critical, emergency or water shortage condition exists and shall implement the
following notification procedures:
      1.   Notification Of The Public: The City Manager or his/her designee
shall notify the public by means of:
         a.   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation, direct mail to
each customer,
         b.   Public service announcements, City's website, social media
outlets,
         c.   Code red,
         d.   Signs posted in public places.
      2.   Additional Notification: The City Manager or his/her designee shall
notify directly, or cause to be notified directly, the following individuals
and entities:
         a.   Board of Commissioners.
         b.   Fire Chief.
         c.   City and/or County Emergency Management Coordinator(s).
         d.   County Judge and Commissioner(s).
         e.   State Disaster District/Department of Public Safety.
         f.   TCEQ (required when mandatory restrictions are imposed).
         g.   Major water users.
   B.   Stage 1 Response - Mild Water Shortage Conditions:
      1.   Target: Achieve a voluntary five percent (5%) reduction in average
daily water demand.
      2.   Best Management Practices for supply management: Reduce flushing of
water mains.
      3.   Voluntary water use restrictions for reducing demand:
         a.   Water customers are requested to voluntarily limit the irrigation
of landscaped areas to Sundays and Thursdays for customers with a street
address ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6 or 8), and Saturdays and
Wednesdays for water customers with a street address ending in an odd number
(1, 3, 5, 7 or 9), and to irrigate landscapes only between the hours of twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on designated watering days.
         b.   All operations of the City of Alamo shall adhere to water use
restrictions prescribed for stage 2 of the plan.
         c.   Water customers are requested to practice water conservation and
to minimize or discontinue water use for non- essential purposes.
   C.   Stage 2 Response - Moderate Water Shortage Conditions:
      1.   Target: Achieve a 7.5 percent reduction in average daily water
demand.
      2.   Best Management Practices for supply management: Reduce flushing of
water mains.
      3.   Water use restrictions for demand reduction: Under threat of penalty
for violation, the following water use restrictions shall apply to all persons:
         a.   Irrigation of landscaped areas with hose-end sprinklers or
automatic irrigation systems shall be limited to Sundays and Thursdays for
customers with a street address ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6 or 8), and
Saturdays and Wednesdays for water customers with a street address ending in an
odd number (1, 3, 5, 7 or 9), and irrigation of landscaped areas is further
limited to the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight until ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. and between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight on designated watering days. However, irrigation of landscaped areas
is permitted at anytime if it is by means of a hand-held hose, a faucet filled
bucket or watering can of five (5) gallons or less, or drip irrigation system.
         b.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except on designated watering days
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. and between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight.
Such washing, when allowed, shall be done with a hand-held bucket or a hand-
held hose equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle for quick rinses. Vehicle
washing may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a commercial car
wash or commercial service station. Further, such washing may be exempted from
these regulations if the health, safety, and welfare of the public is
contingent upon frequent vehicle cleansing, such as garbage trucks and vehicles
used to transport food and perishables.
         c.   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools, wading pools, or jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited except on
designated watering days between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight.
         d.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
         e.   Use of water from hydrants shall be limited to fire fighting,
related activities, or other activities necessary to maintain public health,
safety, and welfare, except that use of water from designated fire hydrants for
construction purposes may be allowed under special permit from the City of
Alamo.
         f.   Use of water for the irrigation of golf course greens, tees, and
fairways is prohibited except on designated watering days between the hours
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and between eight
o'clock (8:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight. However, if the golf
course utilizes a water source other than that provided by the City of Alamo,
the facility shall not be subject to these regulations.
         g.   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to patrons
except upon request of the patron.
         h.   The following uses of water are defined as non-essential and are
prohibited:
            (1)   Wash down of any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking
lots, tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
            (2)   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for
purposes other than immediate fire protection;
            (3)   Use of water for dust control;
            (4)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street; and
            (5)   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable
period after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s).
   D.   Stage 3 Response - Severe Water Shortage Conditions:
      1.   Target: Achieve a ten percent (10%) reduction in average daily water
demand.
      2.   Best Management Practices for supply management: Measures to be
implemented by the City of Alamo in efforts to manage limited water supplies
and/or reduce water demand are to reduce or discontinue flushing of water
mains, reduce or discontinue irrigation of public landscaped areas, as well as
the use of an alternative supply source.
      3.   Water use restrictions for demand reduction: All requirements of
stage 2 shall remain in effect during stage 3 except:
         a.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to designated
watering days between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. and between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock
(12:00) midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held buckets,
drip irrigation, or permanently installed automatic sprinkler system only. The
use of hose-end sprinklers is prohibited at all times.
         b.   The watering of golf course tees is prohibited unless the golf
course utilizes a water source other than that provided by the City of Alamo.
         c.   The use of water for construction purposes from designated fire
hydrants under special permit is to be discontinued.
   E.   Stage 4 Response - Critical Water Shortage Conditions:
      1.   Target: Achieve a fifteen percent (15%) reduction in average daily
water demand.
      2.   Best Management Practices for supply management: Measures to be
implemented by the City of Alamo in efforts to manage limited water supplies
and/or reduce water demand are to reduce or discontinue flushing of water
mains, reduce or discontinue irrigation of public landscaped areas, as well as
the use of alternative supply sources.
      3.   Water use restrictions for reducing demand: All requirements of
stage 2 and 3 shall remain in effect during stage 4 except:
         a.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to designated
watering days between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:
00) A.M. and between eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held buckets, or drip
irrigation only. The use of hose-end sprinklers or permanently installed
automatic sprinkler systems are prohibited at all times.
         b.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle not occurring on the premises of a commercial car
wash and commercial service stations and not in the immediate interest of
public health, safety, and welfare is prohibited. Further, such vehicle washing
at commercial car washes and commercial service stations shall occur only
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and
between six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
         c.   The filling, refilling, or adding of water to swimming pools,
wading pools, and jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited.
         d.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
         e.   No application for new, additional, expanded, or increased- in-
size water service connections, meters, service lines, pipeline extensions,
mains, or water service facilities of any kind shall be approved, and time
limits for approval of such applications are hereby suspended for such time as
this drought response stage or a higher-numbered stage shall be in effect.
   F.   Stage 5 Response - Emergency Water Shortage Conditions:
      1.   Target: Achieve a twenty five percent (25%) reduction in average
daily water demand.
      2.   Best Management Practices for supply management: Measures to be
implemented by the City of Alamo in efforts to manage limited water supplies
and/or reduce water demand are to discontinue flushing of water mains and fire
hydrants, as well as discontinue irrigation of public landscaped areas.
      3.   Water use restrictions for reducing demand: All requirements of
stage 2, 3, and 4 shall remain in effect during stage 5 except:
         a.   Irrigation of landscaped areas is absolutely prohibited.
         b.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle is absolutely prohibited.
   G.   Stage 6 Response - Water Allocation: In the event that water shortage
conditions threaten public health, safety, and welfare, the City Manager is
hereby authorized to allocate water according to the following water allocation
plan:
      1.   Single-Family Residential Customers:
         a.   The allocation to residential water customers residing in a
single-family dwelling shall be as follows:
 
Persons Per Household Gallons Per Month
   1 or 2          6,000
   3 or 4          7,000
   5 or 6          8,000
   7 or 8          9,000
   9 or 10         10,000
   11 or more      12,000
 
"Household" means the residential premises served by the customer's meter.
"Persons per household" includes only those persons currently physically
residing at the premises and expected to reside there for the entire billing
period. It shall be assumed that a particular customer's household is comprised
of two (2) persons unless the customer notifies the City of Alamo of a greater
number of persons per household on a form prescribed by the City Manager. The
City Manager shall give his/her best effort to see that such forms are mailed,
otherwise provided, or made available to every residential customer. If,
however, a customer does not receive such a form, it shall be the customer's
responsibility to go to the City of Alamo offices to complete and sign the form
claiming more than two (2) persons per household. New customers may claim more
persons per household at the time of applying for water service on the form
prescribed by the City Manager. When the number of persons per household
increases so as to place the customer in a different allocation category, the
customer may notify the City of Alamo on such form and the change will be
implemented in the next practicable billing period. If the number of persons in
a household is reduced, the customer shall notify the City of Alamo in writing
within two (2) days. In prescribing the method for claiming more than two (2)
persons per household, the City Manager shall adopt methods to insure the
accuracy of the claim. Any person who knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal
negligence falsely reports the number of persons in a household or fails to
timely notify the City Manager of a reduction in the number of persons in a
household shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         b.   Residential water customers shall pay the following surcharges:
$1.50 for the first 1,000 gallons over allocation.
   $2.00 for the second 1,000 gallons over allocation.
   $2.50 for the third 1,000 gallons over allocation.
$3.00 for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation.
   Surcharges shall be cumulative.
      2.   Master-Metered Multi-Family Residential Customers:
         a.   The allocation to a customer billed from a master meter which
jointly measures water to multiple permanent residential dwelling units
(example: apartments, mobile homes) shall be allocated six thousand (6,000)
gallons per month for each dwelling unit. It shall be assumed that such a
customer's meter serves two (2) dwelling units unless the customer notifies the
City of Alamo of a greater number on a form prescribed by the City Manager. The
City Manager shall give his/her best effort to see that such forms are mailed,
otherwise provided, or made available to every such customer. If, however, a
customer does not receive such a form, it shall be the customer's
responsibility to go to the City of Alamo offices to complete and sign the form
claiming more than two (2) dwellings. A dwelling unit may be claimed under this
provision whether it is occupied or not. New customers may claim more dwelling
units at the time of applying for water service on the form prescribed by the
City Manager. If the number of dwelling units served by a master meter is
reduced, the customer shall notify the City of Alamo in writing within two (2)
days. In prescribing the method for claiming more than two (2) dwelling units,
the City of Alamo shall adopt methods to insure the accuracy of the claim. Any
person who knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence falsely reports
the number of dwelling units served by a master meter or fails to timely notify
the City of Alamo of a reduction in the number of dwelling units shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
         b.   Customers billed from a master meter under this provision shall
pay the following monthly surcharges:
$1.50, for 1,000 gallons over allocation up through 1,000 gallons for each
dwelling unit.
$2.00, thereafter, for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation up through
a second 1,000 gallons for each dwelling unit.
$2.50, thereafter, for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation up through
a third 1,000 gallons for each dwelling unit.
$3.00, thereafter for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation.
Surcharges shall be cumulative.
      3.   Commercial Customers:
         a.   A monthly water allocation shall be established by the City
Manager, or his/her designee, for each nonresidential commercial customer other
than an industrial customer who uses water for processing purposes. The non-
residential customer's allocation shall be approximately fifty percent (50%) of
the customer's usage for corresponding month's billing period for the previous
twelve (12) months. If the customer's billing history is shorter than twelve
(12) months, the monthly average for the period for which there is a record
shall be used for any monthly period for which no history exists. The City
Manager shall give his/her best effort to see that notice of each
nonresidential customer's allocation is mailed to such customer. If, however, a
customer does not receive such notice, it shall be the customer's
responsibility to contact the City of Alamo to determine the allocation. Upon
request of the customer or at the initiative of the City Manager, the
allocation may be reduced or increased if: 1) the designated period does not
accurately reflect the customer's normal water usage, 2) one nonresidential
customer agrees to transfer part of its allocation to another nonresidential
customer, or 3) other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions. A customer may appeal an
allocation established hereunder to the Board of Commissioners.
         b.   Nonresidential commercial customers shall pay the following
surcharges:
Customers whose allocation is 0 gallons through 19,999 gallons per month:
$1.75 per thousand gallons for the first 1,000 gallons over allocation.
$2.00 per thousand gallons for the second 1,000 gallons over allocation.
$2.25 per thousand gallons for the third 1,000 gallons over allocation.
$2.50 per thousand gallons for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation.
Customers whose allocation is 20,000 per month or more:
1.1 times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons in excess of the allocation up
through 5 percent above allocation.
1.3 times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 5 percent through 10
percent above allocation.
1.5 times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 10 percent through 15
percent above allocation.
1.7 times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons more than 15 percent above
allocation.
The surcharges shall be cumulative. As used herein, "block rate" means the
charge to the customer per one thousand (1,000) gallons at the regular water
rate schedule at the level of the customer's allocation.
      4.   Industrial Customers:
         a.   A monthly water allocation shall be established by the City
Manager, or his/her designee, for each industrial customer, which uses water
for processing purposes. The industrial customer's allocation shall be
approximately ninety percent (90%) of the customer's water usage baseline.
Ninety (90) days after the initial imposition of the allocation for industrial
customers, the industrial customer's allocation shall be further reduced to
eighty five percent (85%) of the customer's water usage baseline. The
industrial customer's water use baseline will be computed on the average water
use for the six (6) month period ending prior to the date of implementation of
stage 2 of the plan. If the industrial water customer's billing history is
shorter than six (6) months, the monthly average for the period for which there
is a record shall be used for any monthly period for which no billing history
exists. The City Manager shall give his/her best effort to see that notice of
each industrial customer's allocation is mailed to such customer. If, however,
a customer does not receive such notice, it shall be the customer's
responsibility to contact the City of Alamo to determine the allocation, and
the allocation shall be fully effective notwithstanding the lack of receipt of
written notice. Upon request of the customer or at the initiative of the City
Manager, the allocation may be reduced or increased, if: 1) the designated
period does not accurately reflect the customer's normal water use because the
customer had shut down a major processing unit for repair or overhaul during
the period, 2) the customer has added or is in the process of adding
significant additional processing capacity, 3) the customer has shut down or
significantly reduced the production of a major processing unit, 4) the
customer has previously implemented significant permanent water conservation
measures such that the ability to further reduce water use is limited, 5) the
customer agrees to transfer part of its allocation to another industrial
customer, or 6) if other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions. A customer may appeal an
allocation established hereunder to the Board of Commissioners.
         b.   Industrial customers shall pay the following surcharges:
Customers whose allocation is 0 gallons through 49,999 gallons per month:
$1.50 per thousand gallons for the first 1,000 gallons over allocation.
$2.00 per thousand gallons for the second 1,000 gallons over allocation.
$2.50 per thousand gallons for the third 1,000 gallons over allocation.
$3.00 per thousand gallons for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation.
Customers whose allocation is 50,000 gallons per month or more:
1.1 times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons in excess of the allocation up
through 5 percent above allocation.
1.3 times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 5 percent through 10
percent above allocation.
1.5 times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 10 percent through 15
percent above allocation.
1.7 times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons more than 15 percent above
allocation.
The surcharges shall be cumulative. As used herein, "block rate" means the
charge to the customer per one thousand (1,000) gallons at the regular water
rate schedule at the level of the customer's allocation. (Ord. 09-06-19, 6-18-
2019)
8-1A-10: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water from
the City of Alamo for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural,
governmental, or any other purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of
this plan, or in any amount in excess of that permitted by the drought response
stage in effect at the time pursuant to action taken by the City Manager, or
his/her designee, in accordance with provisions of this plan.
   B.   Any person who violates this plan is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars
($100.00) and not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each day that one
or more of the provisions in this plan is violated shall constitute a separate
offense. If a person is convicted of three (3) or more distinct violations of
this plan, the City Manager shall, upon due notice to the customer, be
authorized to discontinue water service to the premises where such violations
occur. Services discontinued under such circumstances shall be restored only
upon payment of a re- connection charge, hereby established at twenty five
dollars ($25.00), and any other costs incurred by the City of Alamo in
discontinuing service. In addition, suitable assurance must be given to the
City Manager that the same action shall not be repeated while the plan is in
effect. Compliance with this plan may also be sought through injunctive relief
in the District Court.
   C.   Any person, including a person classified as a water customer of the
City of Alamo, in apparent control of the property where a violation occurs or
originates shall be presumed to be the violator, and proof that the violation
occurred on the person's property shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the person in apparent control of the property committed the violation,
but any such person shall have the right to show that he/she did not commit the
violation. Parents shall be presumed to be responsible for violations of their
minor children and proof that a violation, committed by a child, occurred on
property within the parents' control shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the parent committed the violation, but any such parent may be excused if
he/she proves that he/she had previously directed the child not to use the
water as it was used in violation of this plan and that the parent could not
have reasonably known of the violation.
   D.   Any employee of the City of Alamo, police officer, or other City
employee designated by the City Manager, may issue a citation to a person he/
she reasonably believes to be in violation of this article. The citation shall
be prepared in duplicate and shall contain the name and address of the alleged
violator, if known, the offense charged, and shall direct him/her to appear in
the Alamo Municipal Court on the date shown on the citation for which the date
shall not be less than three (3) days nor more than five (5) days from the date
the citation was issued. The alleged violator shall be served a copy of the
citation. Service of the citation shall be complete upon delivery of the
citation to the alleged violator, to an agent or employee of a violator, or to
a person over fourteen (14) years of age who is a member of the violator's
immediate family or is a resident of the violator's residence. The alleged
violator shall appear in the Alamo Municipal Court to enter a plea of guilty or
not guilty for the violation of this plan. If the alleged violator fails to
appear in the Alamo Municipal Court, a warrant for his/her arrest may be
issued. A summons to appear may be issued in lieu of an arrest warrant. These
cases shall be expedited and given preferential setting in the Alamo Municipal
Court before all other cases. (Ord. 09-06-19, 6-18-2019)
8-1A-11: VARIANCES:
   A.   The City Manager, or his/her designee, may, in writing, grant temporary
variance for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this plan if it is
determined that failure to grant such variance would cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting the health, sanitation, or fire protection for
the public or the person requesting such variance and if one or more of the
following conditions are met:
      1.   Compliance with this plan cannot be technically accomplished during
the duration of the water supply shortage or other condition for which the plan
is in effect.
      2.   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same
level of reduction in water use.
   B.   Persons requesting an exemption from the provisions of this article
shall file a petition for variance with the City of Alamo within five (5) days
after the plan or a particular drought response stage has been invoked. All
petitions for variances shall be reviewed by the City Manager, or his/her
designee, and shall include the following:
      1.   Name and address of the petitioner(s).
      2.   Purpose of water use.
      3.   Specific provision(s) of the plan from which the petitioner is
requesting relief.
      4.   Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of the plan
adversely affects the petitioner or what damage or harm will occur to the
petitioner or others if petitioner complies with this article.
      5.   Description of the relief requested.
      6.   Period of time for which the variance is sought.
      7.   Alternative water use restrictions or other measures the petitioner
is taking or proposes to take to meet the intent of this plan and the
compliance date.
      8.   Other pertinent information.
   C.   Variances granted by the City of Alamo shall be subject to the
following conditions, unless waived or modified by the City Manager or his/her
designee:
      1.   Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.
      2.   Variances granted shall expire when the plan is no longer in effect,
unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
   D.   No variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of
this plan occurring prior to the issuance of the variance. (Ord. 09-06-19, 6-
18-2019)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Connection To City Sewer Required
8-2-2: Sanitary Disposal Requirements
8-2-3: Health Officer
8-2-4: Permit And Inspection Fees
8-2-5: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-2-6: Excavations
8-2-7: Privies Declared Nuisance
8-2-8: Violation And Penalties
8-2-1: CONNECTION TO CITY SEWER REQUIRED:
   A.   At any time after the effective date hereof, it shall be unlawful for
any person owning, renting, leasing or controlling, in whole or in part, any
premises situated or abutting on any street or alley where sewer services are
available, to construct, use or maintain or permit to be constructed, used or
maintained on such premises any privy, cesspool, water closet, urinal basin,
slop sink, slop drain, bathtub or water waste drain from laundry or livery
stable or any other receptacle whatsoever used or to be used for the purpose of
receiving or removing sewerage matter or slop of any kind unless the same shall
be connected with the system of sanitary sewerage of the city.
   B.   All privies and closets that may be on any premises to which sewer
services are available, as aforesaid, shall be removed or abated within sixty
(60) days after the effective date hereof. (Ord. 153, 5-4-1946)
8-2-2: SANITARY DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
On or after sixty (60) days from the effective date hereof, it shall be
unlawful to dispose of any human excreta within the corporate limits of the
city.
   A.   Connection Required: All owners, occupants, or their agent(s) of
buildings that are used, resided in, and/or have an active water meter situated
in any section of the city where active sanitary sewer exists, and where the
building’s property line is within fifty feet (50') of any such active sewer,
is hereby required to secure the applicable plumbing permit and must connect
within ninety (90) calendar days after notice from the Code Enforcement
Officer, Utility Supervisor, and/or other city official as assigned by the City
Manager. It is specifically noted that the typical plumbing permits’ one-year
tenure issued in general construction circumstances is hereby superseded by
this health-specific 90-day tenure. Connections to a sanitary sewer line within
the allotted 90-day period will be exempt from any sewer tap connection fee;
however, should a re-inspection fee be required to have the (assigned) City
Building Inspector return to the property to verify compliance to prevailing
plumbing codes, the re-inspection fee will be imposed via normal policy. In
addition, at the owner’s expense, all septic systems will be filled and de-
commissioned as per State health code requirements; said de-commissioning to
occur within the ninety (90) calendar day tenure cited above.
   B.   Nonconnection Penalties: All owners or occupants of buildings, or
agents thereof, situated in any section of the city where sanitary sewers exist
that fails to connect to a city sanitary sewer line shall be subject to having
their water disconnected from the city water system and thereafter no water
services shall be reconnected for the same location until connection to city
sanitary line is completed and will be charged with a misdemeanor as per
section
8-2-8 of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-06-10, 6-1-2010; amd. Ord. 106-6-24, 6-4-2024)
8-2-3: HEALTH OFFICER:
It shall be the duty of the health officer having jurisdiction or his duly
authorized assistant to enter all premises as may be necessary in the
enforcement of this chapter, and he is hereby so empowered. (Ord. 153, 5-4-
1946)
8-2-4: PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES:
   A.   Fees:
 
Sewer connection:      
 New installation    $25.00
 Existing connection 2.50
Each fixture          2.50
Inspection fee        5.00
 
   B.   Fixture Defined: The term "fixture", as used in this section, shall
include the following: water closet, catch basins, sand traps, slop sinks,
bathtubs, kitchen sinks, urinals, wash trays, wash basins, pantry sinks,
drinking fountains, showers, boilers, water heaters, hopper closets, floor
drains where not connected to catch basins, sewers, each section of sectional
fixtures and each other part of plumbing which is connected to sewer pipe.
(Ord. 153, 5-4-1946; amd. 1994 Code)
8-2-5: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts: All of the following acts shall be unlawful:
      1.   Uncovering Public Sewer: To uncover the public sewer or branches
thereof unless by consent and under the supervision of the director of public
works. (Ord. 153, 5-4-1946; amd. 1994 Code)
      2.   Failure To Use Or Connect To Public Sewer:
         a.   For the owner or occupant of any building situated on premises to
which sewer service is available, any portion of which is used for any purpose
during any portion of the day, to fail to have at least one water closet and
one lavatory connection with the public sewer ninety (90) days after the
effective date hereof. (Ord. 153, 5-4-1946; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 11-06-10, 6-1-
2010)
         b.   To throw or allow to be thrown or deposited upon the surface of
the ground or in any hole or vault in or under the surface of the ground in the
premises to which sewer service is available, any water which has been used for
domestic or manufacturing purposes or any liquid or any solid filth, feces or
urine.
         c.   The owner or occupant of any building situated on premises to
which sewer service is available, in which food is cooked or clothing is
washed, to fail to have a suitable sink, slop stone or hopper for the reception
of water and connect same with the sewer system.
         d.   To fail or refuse to connect with the sewer all washstands or
slop stands in house or yard, on premises to which sewer service is available,
or to allow any slops, wash or waste water of any kind to flow over the
pavement or under the pavement into the streets or alleys.
      3.   Unlawful Discharges: To throw or deposit or cause to be thrown or
deposited in any vessel or receptacle connected with the public sewer, any
newspaper, garbage, hair, fruit, ashes, vegetable peelings or refuse, rags,
cotton, cinders or any other matter whatsoever, except feces, urine, the
necessary closet paper and liquid slops.
   B.   Unlawful Connection: No person shall connect any open gutter, cesspool,
privy, vault or cistern with any public sewer or any private sewer connected
with the public sewer.
   C.   Unlawful Deposits: No person shall deposit any garbage, offal, dead
animals, filth or any substance having a tendency to obstruct the flow of
sewage in any manhole, lamphole, flush tank or sewer opening.
   D.   Obstruction Or Injury To System: It shall be unlawful for any person to
obstruct or in any way injure any of the pipes, drains, works or machinery
belonging to or connected with the sewer system of the city or to place any
substance whatever into any sink, water closet, bathtub, vessels, drains or
other receptacles belonging to or connected with said sewer system which may
obstruct or injure same.
   E.   Enforcement: The director of public works shall have the power to stop
and prevent from discharging into the public sewer any private drain or house
connections through which substances are discharged which are liable to injure
the sewers or to obstruct the flow of the sewage or to interfere with the
operation of any disposal plant. (Ord. 153, 5-4-1946; amd. 1994 Code)
8-2-6: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Notice to City: Any person or company or entity desiring to excavate or
cause an opening in any city street, city alley or other public way of the
City, to lay water, sewer, gas, drainage improvement, or any purpose shall
secure an excavation permit to do so; and shall give at least seventy two (72)
hours’ written notice to the Director of Public Works before opening the street
or alley. It is declared that the City of Alamo’s Excavation Permit Policy is
subject and subordinate to prevailing Texas statutes and legislation that
pertain to a company’s or entity’s payment of franchise fees to this
municipality on whether the city’s excavation permit fees are paid or are
already so considered through the (previous) payment of franchise fees.
Regardless of the preceding, the construction plans shall be provided to the
City’s Public Works Department as part of the excavation permit application
process to assure that the City’s utility infrastructure are assessed to be
safeguarded from inadvertent breach or breakage.
   B.   Approval Excavation Application And Permit: The application for a
permit to make any excavation or opening in any of the city streets, city
alleys, or any other of the city’s public ways shall be made before any such
excavation or opening is made. The manner of excavating the trenches and laying
the pipe and backfilling over the same shall be subject to the approval of the
Director of Public Works, and such approval shall be in writing. The permit
application shall be made on a form administratively prepared, and amended from
time-to-time as circumstances warrant, and shall include but not be limited to
the following type of information:
      1.   Name and block juncture of city street or public way in which the
excavation/opening is proposed;
      2.   The exact location and depth of the proposed excavation/opening;
marked maps, exhibits, and/or aerials may be used to express this data; if such
exhibits are not provided, the application shall be deemed ‘incomplete’ and
will not be processed.
      3.   As part of the data needed, the applicant shall declare the type of
safeguarding measures to be used, and shall be shown ‘where’ they will be
placed on the marked excavation plan; see Sec. 8-2-6 (L).
      4.   Current color photographs that are date-stamped of the area proposed
to be excavated; if not provided, the application shall be deemed ‘incomplete’
and will not be processed.
      5.   The applicant proposing to excavate shall also provide needful data
of any and all utilities’ location within close proximity of the proposed
excavation
      6.   The purpose or intent for the excavation/opening shall be clearly
stated;
      7.   The name of the person, the firm, the utility company, etc., who is
engaged to perform such work.
      8.   The name of the last two (2) cities or entities where the person/
firm/company last did similar excavation-type work, with the contact name of
said city/entity, phone number(s), and email addresses; should this data not be
provided, or substantially provided, the application shall be deemed
‘incomplete’ and will not be processed.
      9.   When deemed necessary by the Director of Public Works Director based
on the proposed excavation/opening, the applicant shall prepare a basic
‘Notice’ (English & Spanish) informing neighboring residents/tenants/owners of
the excavation work to be performed and its intent, the projected time frame
that the excavation may remain ‘open’, the safeguarding measures to be
employed, the end result of the backfilled excavated area, i.e., to be left in
a like manner or better; and to include the name and cell phone number of a
contact person to address any questions or issues that may arise during the
course of the authorized excavation work.
      10.   The cost for the excavation permit shall be one hundred dollars
($100).
      11.   All excavation permits shall be signed by the authorized applicant,
and said permit shall express the following: ‘RELEASE OF LIABILITY AND
INDEMNITY AGREEMENT’ - The undersigned, a contractor performing work on public
streets, city alleys, or other public ways located within the City of Alamo,
Texas, hereby agrees to release the City of Alamo, its elected officials, city
employees, and other city officials, from any and all liability from any claim
that may originate out of the work being performed by me, whether due to
property damage, personal injury or death incurred by me, or others engaged to
perform said excavation/opening work; and further, I agree to indemnify and
hold the City of Alamo harmless from any and all costs, expenses, and claims of
any type, including attorney’s fees and court costs that may arise from such
claim(s).
   C.   Protection from Injury/Damage: All such work, as it relates to sanitary
sewer, shall be planned and executed so that no injury or property damage shall
occur to any public sewer or drain; or to any house or other private structure
the sanitary sewer or drain is connected to.
   D.   Responsibility for Injury/Damage: In regard to sanitary sewer work, the
property owner or plumber or both shall be held responsible for any injuries
and/or damage to property that the plumber shall cause to the sewer or street
in making such connections.
   E.   Bond required: The Director of Public Works, or other person authorized
by the City Manager, shall estimate the probable cost of replacing the soil
which may be removed from such public street, alley, or public way; and may
require the applicant to file a written bond in an amount sufficient to cover
such cost, with two or more sufficient sureties, conditioned that the street/
alley shall be restored in as good condition as it was before, or better,
before the proposed excavation or opening. Such bond, when required, shall be
received and approved by the Director of Public Works or other person so
authorized by the City Manager. If the applicant elects to forego the written
bond, he/she may make a cash deposit when required in such sum as may be set by
the Director of Public Works or other person so authorized to do so by the City
Manager.
   F.   Before any permit is issued for any excavation or opening in any city
street, city alley, or other public way owned/governed by the City of Alamo,
the applicant will provide proof of a liability insurance policy issued by an
insurance company duly authorized to transact liability insurance in the State
of Texas, covering bodily injuries, and injury to or the destruction of
property resulting from such work. Minimum amount of coverage required will be
$100,000 if working on public or private streets; and $100,000 if working in
unimproved easement or alleys.
   G.   Issuance of Excavation Permit: When the bond and deposit required in
Section 8-2-6 (E)(F) has been confirmed to be bona fide and found acceptable by
the Director of Public Works or other person so authorized, then the City of
Alamo shall issue a permit for the excavation or opening identified in the
application; and the applicant may then proceed with the work in the exact
location named in his/her application, and in no other place.
   H.   Limitation of Permit: Each specific permit issued for any excavation or
opening in any city street, city alley, or other public way owned/governed by
the city, shall expire by limitation and become null and void if the work
authorized by such permit has not been started within thirty (30) days from the
date of its issuance; or if the excavation work authorized by such permit is
suspended or abandoned at any time for a period of 30 days after the work is
started. Before such work can be started again, a new permit shall be applied
for and obtained; however, should there be acts of God or other emergency-
related circumstances (pandemic mandates, supply interruptions, declared
national or State emergencies, etc.), then the Director of Public Works may
consider an extension of permit validation based on the time consumed of such
un-expected circumstances.
   I.   Supervision of work: All the work of the excavation or making the
opening of the city street, city alley, or other public way owned/governed by
the City of Alamo, shall at all times be under the supervisory inspection of
the Director of Public Works or other person assigned by said Director; and the
person doing the work shall do such work in the manner directed by him/her to
the end that the streets, alleys, or other public ways shall not be unduly
disturbed and traffic thereon obstructed. The excavation must be patched within
seven (7) calendar days after completion of the work. The Director of Public
Works is hereby granted the authority to require a patching in less time or
grant extensions IF the situation warrants special considerations due to
safety, weather, location, and traffic safety considerations. If there is a
severe emergency related to traffic/pedestrian safety that requires immediate
action, then the City of Alamo shall have the right to perform the patch work
and have all calculated costs, plus a $50 administrative fee, reimbursed by the
applicant. If payment is not received within 30 days, then this is a violation
to this provision and shall be code enforced according to procedural protocol.
   J.   Duties upon completion of work: After the excavation or opening is
made, the person so making it shall backfill the excavation with such materials
and in such a manner as the Director of Public Works or other person authorized
by him/her may require; and the excavation permit holder shall leave the city
street, alley, or other public way in at least the same condition as it was
before, or better, before the excavation/opening was made.
   K.   Acceptance, inspection of completed work, responsibility for repairs
(settling, etc.): The conditions of the bond required by this article shall not
be considered to have been complied with until the Director of Public Works
shall have accepted the street, alley, or public way as being in as good
condition as it was prior to the excavation/opening; such acceptance may be
expressed via an electronic message to the applicant (with a hard copy of the
message cross-documented in the Excavation Permit’s File).
   L.   If the person making the opening shall fail to leave the street, alley
or public way in a good state of repair, satisfactory, to the Director of
Public Works, then the Director shall call upon the bondsman to pay for the
cost of repairing such street, alley, or public way; provided however, that in
the event of a cash deposit instead of a bond, the Director may proceed to pay
for such repairs out of the deposit made with him/her, and if there is any
remainder of such deposit after paying for such reparatory work, such remainder
shall be refunded to the person making the deposit minus a $50 administrative
fee for coordinating said repair work, inspecting the repairs (photos taken/
filed), and other efforts for needful documentation. Once all work is
completed, and any incidental repairs satisfactorily performed, and all fees
properly dispersed, the Director of Public Works shall forward an electronic
‘Release & Acceptance of the Work’ to the permittee.
   M.   Safety precautions: It shall be the responsibility and duty exclusively
of the permittee under the provisions of these policies to cause any excavation
or opening made by him/her to be safeguarded pursuant to prevailing safety
guidelines typically used for such work, e.g., Type I and Type II barricades,
orange cones, warning signs, flag persons, warning lights, etc. During the
application stage, the Director of Public Works shall review the applicants’
plan in employing such safeguarding measures for pre-approval.
   N.   Once all work is completed, and any incidental repairs satisfactorily
performed, and all fees properly dispersed, the Director of Public Works shall
forward an electronic ‘release’ to the permittee. (Ord. 153, 5-4-1946; amd.
1994 Code; Ord. 54-08-22, 8-2-2022; Ord. 29-04-23, 4-18-2023)
8-2-7: PRIVIES DECLARED NUISANCE:
All privies existing or maintained within the corporate limits of the city,
after sixty (60) days from the effective date hereof which do not conform to
the requirements of this chapter, shall be and are hereby declared a nuisance
and a menace to public health, and the city shall have the power and authority
to abate such nuisance in accordance with the law 1  or in accordance with the
ordinances of the city. (Ord. 153, 5-4-1946)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 217.042.
8-2-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person who shall fail to comply with or shall violate any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day that any person shall maintain upon premises
owned, occupied or controlled by him, a condition that is in violation with any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 153, 5-4-
1946; amd. 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 3
INDUSTRIAL WASTE 1
SECTION:
8-3-1: Definitions
8-3-2: Prohibited Discharges
8-3-3: Chemical Discharges
8-3-4: Heavy Metals And Toxic Materials
8-3-5: Garbage
8-3-6: Stormwater And Other Unpolluted Drainage 2 (Rep. by Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-
2012)
8-3-7: Temperature
8-3-8: Radioactive Wastes
8-3-9: Impairment Of Facilities
8-3-10: Compliance With Authority
8-3-11: Requirements
8-3-12: Review And Approval
8-3-13: Trap Requirements
8-3-14: Building Sewer Requirements
8-3-15: Sampling And Testing
8-3-16: Industrial Waste Discharge Agreement And Payment Of Costs
8-3-17: Industrial Waste Charges; Adjustments
8-3-18: Continuation Of Prior Use
8-3-19: Discharge Permits And Qualifications
8-3-20: Right Of Entry
8-3-21: Authority To Disconnect Service
8-3-22: Enforcement Of Provisions
8-3-23: Violation And Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-5-2 of this title for fees.
2 2. See chapter 6 of this title.
8-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   APPROVING AUTHORITY: The mayor or his duly authorized representative.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen by weight, expressed
in mg/l, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory conditions for five (5) days at a temperature of twenty degrees
centigrade (20°C).
   BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal (also called house lateral and house connection).
   COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): Measure of the oxygen consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in the water or wastewater expressed in
mg/l as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specific
test, but not differentiating between stable and unstable organic matter and
thus not necessarily correlating with biochemical oxygen demand.
   CITY: The city of Alamo, Texas, or any authorized person acting in its
behalf.
   CONTROL MANHOLE: A manhole giving access to a building sewer at some point
before the building sewer discharge mixes with other discharges in the public
sewer.
   CONTROL POINT: A point of access to a course of discharge before the
discharge mixes with other discharges in the public sewer.
   GARBAGE: Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food and from the handling, processing, storage and sale of
food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade or business from the development of any natural resource
or any mixture of the waste with water or normal wastewater or distinct from
normal wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE: The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the city's sewerage system.
   LRGVPCA: Lower Rio Grande Valley Pollution Control Authority.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l): The same as parts per million and is a weight-
to-volume ratio; the milligram-per-liter value multiplied by the factor eight
and thirty four one-hundredths (8.34) shall be equivalent to pounds per million
gallons of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake or other body of
surface water or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER: Wastewater, excluding industrial wastewater,
discharged by a person into sanitary sewers and in which the average
concentration of total suspended solids is not more than three hundred (300)
mg/l and BOD is not more than two hundred (200) mg/l.
   OVERLOAD: The imposition of organic or hydraulic loading on a treatment
facility in excess of its engineered design capacity.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration
expressed in grams per liter.
   PERSON: Includes corporation, organization, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, association
and any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC SEWER: Pipe or conduit carrying wastewater or unpolluted drainage in
which owners of abutting properties shall have the use, subject to control by
the City.
   SANITARY SEWER: A public sewer that conveys domestic wastewater or
industrial wastes or a combination of both and into which storm water, surface
water, ground water and other unpolluted wastes are not intentionally passed.
   SLUG: Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal
operations.
   STANDARD METHODS: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
latest edition, at the time of analysis, of "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Waste Water" as prepared, approved and published
jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER: A public sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage and into which domestic wastewater or industrial wastes are not
intentionally passed.
   STORM WATER: Rainfall or any other forms of precipitation.
   SUPERINTENDENT: The Director of Public Works of the City of Alamo, Texas, or
his duly authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids, measured in mg/l, that either float on the surface
of or are in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids and which are
largely removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   TO DISCHARGE: Includes to deposit, conduct, drain, emit, throw, run, allow
to seep or otherwise release or dispose of or allow to seep or otherwise
release or dispose of or to allow, permit or suffer any of these acts or
omissions.
   TRAP: A device designed to skim, settle or otherwise remove grease, oil,
sand, flammable wastes or other harmful substances.
   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER: Water containing:
   A.   No free or emulsified grease or oil;
   B.   No acids or alkalis;
   C.   No phenols or other substances producing taste or odor in receiving
water;
   D.   No toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state or
solution;
   E.   No noxious or otherwise obnoxious or odorous gases;
   F.   Not more than ten (10) mg/l each of suspended solids and BOD; and
   G.   Color not exceeding fifty (50) units as measured by the Platinum-Cobalt
method of determination as specified in "Standard Methods".
   WASTE: Rejected, unutilized or superfluous substances in liquid, gaseous or
solid form resulting from domestic, agricultural or industrial activities.
   WASTEWATER: A combination of the water-carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
any ground, surface and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES: Includes all facilities for collection, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE: The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT: Any LRGVPCA-owned facilities, devices and
structures used for receiving, processing and treating wastewater, industrial
waste and sludges from the sanitary sewers.
   WATERCOURSE: A natural or man-made channel in which a flow of water occurs,
either continuously or intermittently. (Ord. 592, 9-16-75)
8-3-2: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Harmful Waste: No person may discharge to the public sewers any waste
which by itself or by interaction with other wastes may:
      1.   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      2.   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      3.   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plat
effluent.
   B.   Conformance with Provisions: All discharges shall conform to the
requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 592, 9-16-75)
8-3-3: CHEMICAL DISCHARGES:
   A.   No discharge to public sewers may contain:
      1.   Cyanide greater than one (1.0) mg/l;
      2.   Fluoride other than that contained in the public water supply;
      3.   Chlorides other than that contained in the public water supply;
      4.   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas; or
      5.   Substances causing an excessive chemical oxygen demand (COD).
   B.   No waste or wastewater discharged to public waters may contain:
      1.   Strong acid, iron pickling wastes or concentrated plating solutions,
whether neutralized or not;
      2.   Fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of
one hundred (100) mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become
viscous at temperatures between thirty two degrees and one hundred fifty
degrees (32o - 150o) Fahrenheit (0o - 65o centigrade);
      3.   Objectionable or toxic substances, exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the composite
wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by
the approving authority for such materials; or
      4.   Obnoxious, toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in quantities
sufficient to violate the provisions of subsection 8-3-2A of this Chapter.
   C.   No waste, wastewater or other substance may be discharged into public
sewers which has a pH lower than five and five-tenths (5.5) or higher than nine
and five-tenths (9.5) or any other corrosive property capable of causing damage
or hazard to structures, equipment and personnel at the wastewater facilities.
   D.   All waste, wastewater or other substance containing phenols, hydrogen,
sulfide or other taste- and odor-producing substances, shall conform in
concentration to limits established by the approving authority. After treatment
of the composite wastewater, concentration limits may not exceed the
requirements established by State, Federal or other agencies with jurisdiction
over discharges to receiving waters. (Ord. 592, 9-16-75)
8-3-4: HEAVY METALS AND TOXIC MATERIALS:
   A.   No discharges may contain concentrations of heavy metals greater than
amounts specified in subsection B of this Section.
   B.   The maximum allowable concentrations of heavy metals stated in terms of
milligrams per liter (mg/l), determined on the basis of individual sampling in
accordance with "Standard Methods", are:
1. Arsenic          0.05 mg/l
2. Barium           5.10 mg/l
3. Boron            1.00 mg/l
4. Cadmium          0.02 mg/l
5. Chromium (total) 5.00 mg/l
6. Copper           1.00 mg/l
7. Lead             0.10 mg/l
8. Manganese        1.00 mg/l
9. Mercury          0.005 mg/l
10. Nickel          1.00 mg/l
11. Selenium        0.02 mg/l
12. Silver          0.10 mg/l
13. Zinc            5.00 mg/l
 
   C.   No other heavy metals or toxic materials may be discharged into public
sewers without a permit from the approving authority specifying conditions of
pretreatment, concentrations, volumes and other applicable provisions.
   D.   Prohibited heavy metals and toxic materials include, but are not
limited to:
      1.   Antimony;
      2.   Beryllium;
      3.   Bismuth;
      4.   Cobalt;
      5.   Molybdenum;
      6.   Uranyl ion;
      7.   Rhenium;
      8.   Strontium;
      9.   Tellurium;
      10.   Herbicides;
      11.   Fungicides; and
      12.   Pesticides. (Ord. 592, 9-16-75)
8-3-5: GARBAGE:
   A.   No person may discharge garbage into public sewers unless it is
shredded to a degree that all particles can be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers. Particles greater than one-
half inch (1/2") in any dimension are prohibited.
   B.   The approving authority is entitled to review and approve the
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-fourths (3/4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater. (Ord. 592, 9-16-
1975)
8-3-6: STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 6 of this title.
8-3-7: TEMPERATURE:
No person may discharge liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one
hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F) (65°C) or any substance which causes
the temperature of the total wastewater treatment plant to increase at a rate
of ten degrees Fahrenheit (10°F) or more per hour or a combined total increase
of plant influent temperature to one hundred ten degrees Fahrenheit (110°F).
(Ord. 579, 6-7-1974)
8-3-8: RADIOACTIVE WASTES:
   A.   No person may discharge radioactive wastes or isotopes into public
sewers without the permission of the approving authority.
   B.   The approving authority may establish, in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations, regulations for discharge of radioactive wastes
into public sewers. (Ord. 579, 6-7-1974)
8-3-9: IMPAIRMENT OF FACILITIES:
   A.   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of
causing:
      1.   Obstruction to the flow in sewers;
      2.   Interference with the operation of treatment processes or
facilities; or
      3.   Excessive loading of treatment facilities.
   B.   Discharges prohibited by subsection A of this section include, but are
not limited to, materials which exert or cause concentrations of:
      1.   Inert suspended solids greater than two hundred fifty milligrams per
liter (250 mg/l), including, but not limited to:
         a.   Fuller's earth;
         b.   Lime slurries; and
         c.   Lime residues.
      2.   Dissolved solids greater than five hundred milligrams per liter (500
mg/l) greater than the public water supply, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Sodium chloride; and
         b.   Sodium sulfate.
      3.   Excessive discoloration, including, but not limited to:
         a.   Dye wastes; and
         b.   Vegetable tanning solutions.
      4.   BOD, COD or chlorine demand in excess of normal plant capacity.
   C.   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance that may:
      1.   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to clog
the sewers;
      2.   Overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
      3.   Pass to the receiving waters without being effectively treated by
normal wastewater treatment processes due to the nonamenability of the
substance to bacterial action; or
      4.   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   D.   No person may discharge any substance into public sewers which:
      1.   Is not amenable to treatment or reduction by the processes and
facilities employed; or
      2.   Is amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   E.   The approving authority shall regulate the flow and concentration of
slugs when they may:
      1.   Impair the treatment process;
      2.   Cause damage to the collection facilities;
      3.   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      4.   Render the waste unfit for the stream disposal or industrial use.
   F.   No person may discharge into public sewers solid or viscous substances
which may violate subsection A of this Section if present in sufficient
quantity or size, including but not limited to:
      1.   Ashes;
      2.   Cinders;
      3.   Sand;
      4.   Mud;
      5.   Straw;
      6.   Shavings;
      7.   Metal;
      8.   Glass;
      9.   Rags;
      10.   Feathers;
      11.   Tar;
      12.   Plastics;
      13.   Wood;
      14.   Unground garbage;
      15.   Whole blood;
      16.   Paunch manure;
      17.   Hair and fleshings;
      18.   Entrails;
      19.   Paper products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      20.   Slops;
      21.   Chemical residues;
      22.   Paint residues; or
      23.   Bulk solids. (Ord. 579, 6-7-74)
8-3-10: COMPLIANCE WITH AUTHORITY:
   A.   Unless exception is granted by the approving authority, the public
sanitary sewer system shall be used by all persons discharging:
      1.   Wastewater;
      2.   Industrial waste; or
      3.   Polluted liquids.
   B.   Unless authorized by the Texas Water Quality Board, no person may
deposit or discharge any waste included in subsection A of this Section on
public or private property in or adjacent to any:
      1.   Natural outlet;
      2.   Watercourse;
      3.   Storm sewer; or
      4.   Other area within the jurisdiction of the City.
   C.   The approving authority shall verify, prior to the discharge, that
wastes authorized to be discharged will receive suitable treatment within the
provisions of laws, regulations, ordinances, rules and orders of Federal, State
and local governments. (Ord. 579, 6-7-74)
8-3-11: REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   If discharges or proposed discharges to public sewers may: 1)
deleteriously affect wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving
waters; 2) create a hazard to life or health; or 3) create a public nuisance,
the approving authority shall require:
      1.   Pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public
sewers;
      2.   Control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      3.   Payment to cover the cost of handling and treating the wastes.
   B.   The approving authority is entitled to determine whether a discharge or
proposed discharge is included under subsection A of this Section.
   C.   The approving authority shall reject wastes when:
      1.   It determines that a discharge or proposed discharge is included
under subsection A of this Section; and
      2.   The discharge does not meet the requirements of subsection A of this
Section. (Ord. 579, 6-7-74)
8-3-12: REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
   A.   If pretreatment or control is required, the approving authority shall
review and approve design and installation equipment and processes.
   B.   The design and installation of equipment and processes must conform to
all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances and other laws.
   C.   Any person responsible for discharges requiring pretreatment, flow-
equalizing or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in
effective operating condition at his own expense. (Ord. 579, 6-7-74)
8-3-13: TRAP REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Discharges requiring a trap include:
      1.   Grease or waste containing grease in excessive amounts;
      2.   Oil;
      3.   Sand;
      4.   Flammable wastes; and
      5.   Other harmful ingredients.
   B.   Any person responsible for discharges requiring a trap shall, at his
own expense and as required by the approving authority:
      1.   Provide equipment and facilities of a type and capacity approved by
the approving authority;
      2.   Locate the trap in a manner that provides ready and easy
accessibility for cleaning and inspection; and
      3.   Maintain the trap in effective operating condition. (Ord. 579, 6-7-
74)
8-3-14: BUILDING SEWER REQUIREMENTS:
Any person responsible for discharges through a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall, at his own expense and as required by the approving
authority:
   A.   Install an accessible and safely located control manhole;
   B.   Install meters and other appurtenances to facilitate observation
sampling and measurement of the waste; and
   C.   Maintain the equipment and facilities. (Ord. 579, 6-7-74)
8-3-15: SAMPLING AND TESTING:
   A.   Sampling: Sampling shall be conducted according to customarily accepted
methods, reflecting the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and
determining the existence of hazards to health, life, limb and property. (NOTE:
The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite
sample from all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composite of all outfalls. Where applicable,
16-hour, 8-hour or some other period may be required. Periodic grab samples are
used to determine pH.)
   B.   Examination and Analyses: Examination and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes required by this Chapter shall be:
      1.   Conducted in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard
Methods"; and
      2.   Determined from suitable samples taken at the control manhole
provided or other control point authorized by the approving authority.
   C.   Composite Sampling: BOD and suspended solids shall be determined from
composite sampling.
   D.   Laboratory: The City may select an independent firm or laboratory to
determine flow, BOD and suspended solids.
   E.   Time of Sampling: The City is entitled to select the time of sampling
at its sole discretion, so long as at least annual samples are taken. (Ord.
579, 6-7-74)
8-3-16: INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISCHARGE AGREEMENT AND PAYMENT OF COSTS:
   A.   When discharges of industrial waste are approved by the approving
authority, the City or its authorized representatives shall enter into an
agreement or arrangement providing:
      1.   Terms of acceptance by the City; and
      2.   Payment by the persons making the discharge.
   B.   Persons making discharges of industrial waste shall pay a charge to
cover the cost of collection and treatment as provided by the LRGVPCA.
   C.   If the volume or character of the waste to be treated by the City does
not cause overloading of the sewerage collection of the City and treatment or
disposal facilities of the LRGVPCA, then prior to approval, the City, LRGVPCA
and the person making the discharge shall enter into an agreement which
provides that the discharger pay an industrial waste charge to be determined
from the schedule of charges.
   D.   If the volume or character of the waste to be treated by the LRGVPCA
requires that the wastewater collection system of the City or treatment or
other disposal facilities of the LRGVPCA be improved, expanded or enlarged in
order to treat the waste, then prior to the approval, the City, LRGVPCA and the
person making the discharge shall enter into an agreement which provides that
the discharger pay in full all added costs the City may incur due to acceptance
of the waste.
   E.   The agreement entered into pursuant to subsection C of this Section
shall include but not be limited to:
      1.   Amortization of all capital outlay for collecting the waste,
including new capital outlay for and the proportionate part of the value of the
existing system used in handling waste;
      2.   Operation and maintenance costs, including salaries and wages, power
costs, costs of chemicals and supplies, proper allowances for maintenance,
depreciation, overhead and office expense. (Ord. 592, 9-16-75)
8-3-17: INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGES; ADJUSTMENTS 1 :
   A.   Formula:
      1.   The formula shown below is the method that will be used to determine
the equitable industrial waste charge for the transportation and treatment of
industrial waste. The costs associated with transportation include the
unamortized costs of existing facilities (as represented by the outstanding
debt), new facility construction costs (exclusive of funds that do not have to
be repaid), operation and maintenance costs (including repair and replacement
costs), and any other costs borne by the City (i.e., site acquisition, easement
costs, administrative costs, etc.). Treatment costs will be determined by
adding the cost of treatment of the waste in question as submitted to the City
by the LRGVPCA to an equitable service charge to be determined by the City.
      2.   The total cost to be charged to the industrial waste discharger per
one thousand (1,000) gallons of sewage shall be computed by application of the
following formula:
A charge per one thousand (1,000) gallons of industrial waste assessed by the
LRGVPCA, divided by sixty eight (68), then multiplied by one hundred (100),
equals the total amount per one thousand (1,000) gallons of industrial waste to
be charged to the industrial waste discharger.
Example: If LRGVPCAs charge per 1,000 gallons of industrial waste is 23.8¢,
then:
23.8¢ ÷ 68 x 100 = amount to be charged industrial waste discharger;
   or
2.38 ÷ 68 = .0035 x 100 = $0.35 the total charge to industrial waste discharger
      3.   The effect of the application of such formula shall be that the
total cost to the City of LRGVPCA treatment of industrial waste represent sixty
eight percent (68%) of the total charged to the industrial waste discharger and
the City will receive thirty two percent (32%) of such total sum to cover its
costs and services rendered. (Ord. 623, 3-15-77)
   B.   Adjustment of Charges:
      1.   The City shall adjust charges at least annually to reflect the
changes in the characteristics of wastewater based on the results of sampling
and testing as well as sampling and testing of the LRGVPCA.
      2.   Increases in charges shall be retroactive for two (2) billing
periods and shall continue for six (6) billing periods unless subsequent tests
determine that the charge should be further increased.
      3.   The City and the LRGVPCA shall review at least annually the basis
for determining charges and shall adjust the unit treatment cost in the formula
to reflect the increases or decreases in wastewater treatment costs based on
the previous year's experience by the LRGVPCA.
   C.   Billing: The City shall bill the discharger by the month and shall show
industrial waste charges as a separate item on the regular bill of water and
sewer charges. The discharger shall pay monthly in accordance with practices
existing for payment of sewer charges 2 . (Ord. 579, 6-7-74)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-5-2B of this Title.
2 1. See Section
  8-5-2 of this Title.
8-3-18: CONTINUATION OF PRIOR USE:
A person discharging industrial wastes into public sewers prior to the
effective date hereof may continue without penalty so long as he:
   A.   Does not increase the quantity or quality of discharge, without
permission of the approving authority;
   B.   Has discharged the industrial waste at least six (6) months prior to
the effective date hereof; and
   C.   Applies for and is granted a permit no later than ninety (90) days
after the effective date hereof. (Ord. 579, 6-7-74)
8-3-19: DISCHARGE PERMITS AND QUALIFICATIONS:
   A.   Continuance of Discharge: The City may grant a permit to discharge to
persons meeting all requirements of the saving clause; provided, that the
person:
      1.   Submit an application within thirty (30) days after the effective
date hereof on forms supplied by the approving authority (see Attachment 2 to
Ordinance 592, on file in the office of the City Secretary).
      2.   Secure approval by the approving authority and/or LRGVPCA of plans
and specifications for pretreatment facilities when required; and
      3.   Has complied with all requirements for agreements or arrangements,
including but not limited to provisions for:
         a.   Payments of charges;
         b.   Installation and operation of pretreatment facilities; and
         c.   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and strength; and
      4.   Provides a sampling point subject to the provisions of this Chapter
and approval of the approving authority.
   B.   New Discharge Permit: A person applying for a new discharge shall:
      1.   Meet all conditions of subsection A of this Section; and
      2.   Secure a permit prior to discharging any waste. (Ord. 579, 6-7-74)
8-3-20: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Right of Entry: The Director of Public Works and other duly authorized
employees of the City bearing proper credentials and identification are
entitled to enter any public or private property at any reasonable time for the
purpose of enforcing this Chapter.
   B.   Observance of Rules and Regulations: Anyone acting under this authority
shall observe the establishment's rules and regulations concerning safety,
internal security and fire protection.
   C.   Indemnification: Except when caused by negligence or failure of the
company to maintain safe conditions, the City shall indemnify the company
against loss or damage to its property by City employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the sampling operation.
   D.   Negotiated Easements: The Director of Public Works and other duly
authorized employees of the City bearing proper credentials and identification
are entitled to enter all private properties through which the City holds a
negotiated easement for the purposes of:
      1.   Inspection, observation, measurement, sampling or repair;
      2.   Maintenance of any portion of the sewerage system lying within the
easements; and
      3.   Conducting any other authorized activity. All activities shall be
conducted in full accordance with the terms of the negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   E.   Confidential Processes: No person acting under authority of this
provision may inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical,
oil refining, ceramic, paper or other industries beyond that point having
direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the public sewers. (Ord.
579, 6-7-74)
8-3-21: AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE:
   A.   The City may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and
disconnect an industrial customer from the system when:
      1.   Acids or chemicals damaging the sewer lines or treatment process are
released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures or
interfering with the proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
      2.   A governmental agency informs the City that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to the
City's system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is
not provided by the City as normal domestic treatment; or
      3.   The industrial customer:
         a.   Discharges industrial wastes or wastewater that is in violation
of the permit issued by the approving authority;
         b.   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
         c.   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services
when due 1 ; or
         d.   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
   B.   If the service is disconnected pursuant to subsection A2 of this
Section, the City shall:
      1.   Disconnect the customer;
      2.   Supply the customer with the governmental agency's report and
provide the customer with all pertinent information; and
      3.   Continue disconnection until such time as the industrial customer
provides additional pretreatment or other facilities designed to remove the
objectionable characteristics from his industrial wastes. (Ord. 579, 6-7-74)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 5 of this Title for payment provisions.
8-3-22: ENFORCEMENT OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Notice of Violation: The City shall serve persons discharging in
violation of this Chapter with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for satisfactory compliance.
   B.   Continuance of Prohibited Discharges: No person may continue
discharging in violation of this Chapter beyond the time limit provided in the
notice.
   C.   Failure to Pay 1 : In addition to sanctions provided for by this
Chapter, the City is entitled to exercise sanctions provided for by the other
ordinances of the City for failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer
service when due.
   D.   Penalty for Criminal Mischief: The City may pursue all criminal and
civil remedies to which it is entitled under authority of statutes and
ordinances against a person negligently, wilfully or maliciously causing loss
by tampering with or destroying public sewers or treatment facilities. (Ord.
579, 6-7-74)
 
Notes
1 2. See Section
  8-5-9 of this Title for payment procedures.
8-3-23: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   A person who continues prohibited discharges is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, is subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each act of violation and for each day of violation.
   B.   In addition to proceeding under authority of subsection A of this
Section, the City is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies
to which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against
a person continuing prohibited discharges. (Ord. 579, 6-7-74; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 4
UTILITY SERVICES OUTSIDE CITY
SECTION:
8-4-1: Water Service Regulations
8-4-2: Utility Contracts
8-4-1: WATER SERVICE REGULATIONS:
The purpose of the City Water Department, as set forth in Section
8-1-1 of this Chapter, is to provide water at a reasonable price to the
citizens of the City; however, in some cases it will probably be profitable to
the City to supply out of City consumers with water. In the event that such
person living outside the limits of the City desires to be connected with the
waterworks system of the City, he shall present a request to the Board of
Commissioners in writing. The Board of Commissioners, if it so believes that it
will be profitable to sell such water to such consumer, may deliver water to
the City limits. The would-be consumer is then under duty to supply all labor
and materials to lay the pipe to his own premises and to make the meter deposit
as set forth in Chapter 1 of this Title. Water meters are property of the City
and shall be maintained only by the City; the same applies to utility lines. In
the event that such water consumer does not keep such lines in good repair and
condition, the Director of Public Works shall have the right to discontinue
water service without notice; and further, shall refuse to reconnect same until
such lines are in good repair and condition. The same rules and regulations as
to discontinuance of water for failure to pay bills when due shall apply as
with the City consumers. (Ord. 199, 9-9-57; 1994 Code)
8-4-2: UTILITY CONTRACTS:
   A.   Contract Requirements:
      1.   Prior to delivery of City water, providing treated sewage services
or City garbage collection services to any property a part of which lies beyond
the corporate limits of the City, it is further mandatory that a written
contract between the City and all owners and record mortgagees and lienholders
agree to construct all improvements on said property in accordance and in
compliance with the City Building Code, Plumbing Code, Gas Code and Electrical
Code 1 , all lawfully adopted departmental rules and regulations applicable
thereto and such other regulations and requirements as the Board of
Commissioners may deem necessary and lawful to enforce relative thereto and
such owners, mortgagees and lienholders shall consent by said contract to
inspection of all such construction by duly authorized inspectors or
representatives of City departments charged with enforcement of said Codes and
by the City Engineer and shall pay the applicable inspection and engineering
fee applicable thereto.
      2.   Every such executed contract shall be filed with the City Secretary
prior to delivery of City water, providing treated City sewage service or
providing City garbage collection service and filed of record in the County
deed records by the owners, mortgagees and lienholders.
      3.   As to any improvements, the applicable codes shall be those in
effect at the time of commencement of such improvement.
   B.   Approval of Contract: Each contract for utilities outside City limits
must receive approval by the Board of Commissioners before the contract can
become effective. (Ord. 655, 10-11-78)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9, Chapter 1 of this Code.
CHAPTER 5
UTILITY AND SANITATION RATES AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Water Rates And Charges
8-5-2: Sewer Rates And Charges
8-5-3: Garbage And Trash Collection Rates
8-5-4: Brush Collection Charges
8-5-5: Sanitary Landfill Use Procedures, Rates And Charges
8-5-6: Electric Rates
8-5-7: Natural Gas Rates
8-5-8: Rate Disputes
8-5-9: Use Of City Services; Late Payment Penalties
8-5-10: Fees And Policy For Private Sewer Unplug
8-5-1: WATER RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Meter Deposits And Tap Fees: All premises using Alamo’s water supply
must be equipped with a water meter furnished by the city; and as security for
payment for said water, a meter deposit shall be charged in the amounts set
forth below. The meter deposits are usually paid by the owner(s); however, in a
multi- family (apartment) setting, the city allows a tenant to pay the meter
deposit fee, as may be negotiated with the owners(s)/landlord. Should the
apartments’ tenant leave the premises and his/her water account is examined and
determined to be in good standing, the City of Alamo shall follow normal
administrative protocol to (partially) refund said deposit as he/she may be
entitled to minus a nominal twenty-five dollars ($25.00) administrative refund
process fee.
Size Of Tap Meter Deposit Fee Tap Fee WM Box Fee
Size Of Tap Meter Deposit Fee      Tap Fee  WM Box Fee
3/4"        $ 250.00 (residential) $600.00  $40.00
3/4"        $300.00 (commercial)   $600.00  $40.00
1"          $300.00                $900.00  $40.00
1 1/2"      $325.00                $1100.00 $40.00
2"          $350.00                $2200.00 $40.00
3"          $350.00                $3000.00 $40.00
4"          $375.00                $4600.00 $40.00
5"          $400.00                $5075.00 $40.00
6"          $475.00                $6200.00 $40.00
 
   B.   Connection And Reconnection Fees During Regular Working Hours:
      1.   Connection Fees: Water (re)connection fee shall be thirty dollars
($30.00) for connections made during regular working hours. (Note: for
reconnections made during non-working hours, see Section
8-1-3(L).
      2.   Reserved.
      3.   Full Tap Connection Fees: In cases where staff must connect into the
water main, a full tap connection fee shall be added to the water meter tap fee
in the amount of three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) for such
connections. Furthermore, should the utility account holder request that their
existing water meter be relocated, or re-tapped, all incidental water main
full-tap fees plus estimated labor/equipment cost shall be paid for prior to
the meter being relocated; plus, should said utility account not be up-dated
regarding deposit fees, then the re-tap process shall also include the account
holder updating their water meter deposit fee to thus be fully compliant to
prevailing water use regulations. These full tap or re-tap fees incorporate the
costs of providing the tapping saddles, corporation stops, angle ball valves,
meter couplings, and any other materials and equipment/labor needed in order to
tap into the main line and provide the service connection for the water meter.
However, if such service connection task requires an open cut to a paved street
or paved alley, these incidental costs (asphalt removal/disposal/re-paving)
shall be calculated and added to the full tap connection fee(s).
   C.   Water User Rates 1 :
      1.   Inside City Limits: The following rates shall be charged to all
users of treated water furnished by the city:
         a.   Minimum charge of seventeen dollars ($17.00) for two thousand
(2,000) gallons or less.
         b.   One dollar thirty cents ($1.30) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons from two thousand one (2,001) to fifteen thousand (15,000).
         c.   One dollar forty cents ($1.40) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons from fifteen thousand one (15,001) to twenty five thousand (25,000).
         d.   One dollar fifty cents ($1.50) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons from twenty five thousand one (25,001) to thirty five thousand
(35,000).
         e.   One dollar seventy cents ($1.70) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons from thirty five thousand one (35,001) to fifty thousand (50,000).
         f.   One dollar ninety cents ($1.90) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons after fifty thousand one (50,001) gallons.
      2.   Outside City Limits: For users of treated water furnished by the
city outside the city limits there shall be an additional thirty percent (30%)
charge for such service. Such thirty percent (30%) charge is to be added to the
calculated amount as per the rates listed above.
      3.   Commercial And Industrial Category: Motels, hotels, tourist courts,
trailer parks, offices, stores, lumberyards, cafes, taverns, service stations,
schools, packing sheds, car washes, laundromats, beauty shops, barbershops, and
any other entity that is considered commercial or industrial, will be charged
as follows:
Inside and outside city limits:
Commercial base water rates will be:
 
0 - 25,000 gallons      $23.50
25,001 - 75,000 gallons 25.50
75,001+ gallons         29.50
 
Plus:
         a.   One dollar twenty cents ($1.20) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons from two thousand one (2,001) to fifteen thousand (15,000).
         b.   One dollar thirty cents ($1.30) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons from fifteen thousand one (15,001) to twenty five thousand (25,000).
         c.   One dollar fifty cents ($1.50) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons from twenty five thousand one (25,001) to thirty five thousand
(35,000).
         d.   One dollar seventy cents ($1.70) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons from thirty five thousand one (35,001) to fifty thousand (50,000).
         e.   One dollar ninety cents ($1.90) for each one thousand (1,000)
gallons after fifty thousand one (50,001) gallons. (Ord. 23-11-03, 11-18-2003;
amd. Ord. 26-11-08, 11-18-2008; Ord. 26-09-13, 9-24-2013; Ord. 40-08-21, 8-3-
2021; Ord. 157-01-25, 1-7-2025)
 
Notes
1    There will be a base rate increase of $1.00 for each subsequent fiscal year
  beginning October 1, 2009 until September 30, 2014.
8-5-2: SEWER RATES AND CHARGES:
The following rates shall be charged for sanitary sewer service by the city and
there will be a base rate increase of one dollar ($1.00) for each subsequent
fiscal year beginning October 1, 2009 until September 30, 2014: (Ord. 9-14-93B,
9-14-1993; amd. Ord. 27-11-08, 11-18-2008)
   A.   Category Of Customer: Residence designed for and occupied by one
family, churches, duplexes and multiple connections on one water meter will be
charged as follows:
Inside city limits: Seventeen dollars fifty cents ($17.50) base fee for each
dwelling.
Outside city limits: Eighteen dollars ($18.00) base fee for each dwelling.
Plus:
      1.   Zero to eight thousand (8,000) gallons includes base fee.
      2.   Over eight thousand (8,000) gallons will be charged at a rate of
forty cents ($0.40) per one thousand (1,000) gallons.
   B.   Commercial And Industrial Category: Motels, hotels, tourist courts,
trailer parks, offices, stores, lumberyards, cafes, taverns, service stations,
schools, packing sheds, car washes, laundromats, beauty shops, barbershops, and
any other entity that is considered commercial or industrial, will be charged
as follows:
   Inside city limits: Commercial sewer will be based on eighty percent (80%)
of monthly water bill.
   Outside city limits: Commercial sewer will be based on eighty five percent
(85%) of monthly water bill.
   Industrial sewer: Any entity disposing of industrial sewer will be assessed
the rate of $0.55 x M.G. (Ord. 27-11-08, 11-18-2008)
   C.   Temporary Termination Customers: Any residential type customer, due to
the nature of their occupation and/or retirement status or other similar type
status, who temporarily moves from a location, but ultimately returns to that
location with no interim customer applying for service at such location shall,
upon request, be placed on a "standby" status at a flat rate of two dollars
($2.00) per month until service is restored to such location by such customer.
(Ord. 09-19-00-E, 9-5-2000)
   D.   Lawn Sprinkler System Meter Connections:
      1.   Upon paying the applicable connection fees, residential lots will be
allowed another water meter connection for lawn sprinkler systems provided that
a water meter connection has been established for the residence.
      2.   Upon paying the applicable connection fees, commercial lots will be
allowed another water meter connection for lawn sprinkler systems provided that
a water meter connection has been established for the commercial building.
      3.   A backflow prevention device must be installed on the lawn sprinkler
system by a certified irrigator.
      4.   A backflow prevention assembly test and maintenance report must be
submitted to the City and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ)
upon installation and on an annual basis. (Ord. 02-01-13, 1-2-2013)
      5.   Any person or persons operating a lawn sprinkler system must adhere
to the regulations of the Drought Contingency Plan for the City of Alamo. (Ord.
02-01-13, 1-2-2013; amd. Ord. 09-06-19, 6-18-2019)
      6.   No sewer charges will be assessed on these utility accounts provided
that these meter connections are used strictly for lawn sprinkler systems.
(Ord. 02-01-13, 1-2-2013)
8-5-3: GARBAGE AND TRASH COLLECTION RATES:
The following rates shall be charged for garbage and trash collection services
by the City: (Ord. 9-15-98-02, 9-15-1998)
   A.   The following monthly rates shall apply to include, but are not limited
to, residences designed for and occupied by one family, churches, multiple
residences on one master meter, etc. The residential service rate includes a
two dollar ($2.00) administrative fee and a one dollar ($1.00) administrative
fee on additional containers.
      Monthly Residential service (once a week pick up service):$18.10 per
dwelling.
      Additional container: $6.40; (third and subsequent containers will be
charged at the full rate).
      There shall be a sixty dollar ($60.00) deposit for each residential
garbage account.
   B.   The following monthly rates shall apply to commercial establishments,
which include, but are not limited to, offices, stores, garages, lumberyards,
taverns, service stations, etc. The commercial service rate includes a two
dollar ($2.00) administrative fee and a one dollar ($1.00) administrative fee
on additional containers.
      Commercial service (once a week service):$32.83 per establishment.
      Additional container:$9.57.
      (Third and subsequent containers will be charged at the full rate.)
   C.   Commercial and non-commercial (institutional, etc.) dumpsters rates and
charges, inclusive of a two-hundred and fifty dollar ($250.00) deposit for each
bin of any size, shall be levied as follows:
 
Bin size Frequency Pick-Up/Week
         1x week 2x week 3x week 4x week 5x week 6x week
2.0 yard $112.60 $191.46 $268.09 $332.18 $388.50 $454.95
3.0 yard 123.87  210.58  291.13  365.44  427.38  515.79
4.0 yard 135.13  229.75  317.59  398.66  465.13  533.77
6.0 yard 199.28  338.82  468.42  588.05  687.67  788.35
8.0 yard 225.24  387.35  527.01  682.48  840.13  997.83
 
   A six dollar and fifty four cents ($6.54) monthly brush charge will be
applied to all active commercial dumpster accounts within the city limits of
Alamo.
   A $250 deposit for each dumpster, regardless of size, shall be required.
(Ord. 26-09-13, 9-24-2013; amd. Ord. 157-01-25, 1-7-2025; Ord. 161-02-25, 2-24-
2025)
8-5-4: BRUSH COLLECTION CHARGES:
The following rates shall apply to brush collection fees, which include a one
dollar ($1.00) administrative fee:
   A.   A monthly charge of $6.20 will be applied to all active residential
accounts and per unit on multi-apartment complexes within the City limits of
Alamo.
   B.   A monthly brush charge of $3.67 will be applied to every two (2) spaces
within a mobile home park and/or recreational vehicle park regardless if said
spaces are occupied or not.
   C.   A monthly brush charge of $6.20 will be applied to all active
commercial accounts within the city limits of Alamo. For any institutional type
uses, such as schools (public, private, etc.) or religious institutions or
other similar public/semi-public uses, the ‘commercial’ brush rate of this
provision shall be applied unless otherwise specified in the City of Alamo’s
contractual agreement with its solid waste provider. (Ord. 26-09-13, 9-24-2013;
amd. Ord. 157-01-25, 1-7-2025; Ord. 161-02-25, 2-24-2025)
8-5-5: SANITARY LANDFILL USE PROCEDURES, RATES AND CHARGES 1 :
   A.   Payments; Receipt Required: All payments for the use of the sanitary
landfill shall be made at the Alamo municipal building billing office for which
a receipt will be issued upon such payment. Said receipt shall be presented to
the attendant at the gate of the sanitary landfill. No person shall be allowed
to dump at the sanitary landfill unless a valid receipt of payment is presented
to the attendant at the gate. No monies will be accepted by the attendant at
the gate of the sanitary landfill.
   B.   Eligibility For Receipts: Only those persons who receive water, sewer
and/or garbage services will be allowed receipts to the sanitary landfill.
   C.   Residents Using City Water, Sewer And Garbage: Residents within the
city limits receiving water, sewer and garbage services will be issued a
receipt for the purpose of dumping at the sanitary landfill without charge upon
their presenting a current water bill and a driver's license matching the name
on the water account. All debris allowed by the state will be admitted into the
sanitary landfill. Any resident wanting to dispose of construction debris from
renovations done to personally owned homes will have to obtain a building
permit prior to requesting sanitary landfill dumping receipts. These receipts
will be at no charge.
   D.   Construction Debris: After having obtained a building permit,
contractors disposing of construction debris from new homes or from remodeling
done within the city limits will be charged as follows:
 
Tandem truck loads                      $60.00
Trucks or trailers with side boards     50.00
Pickups or trailers without side boards 40.00
 
   E.      Outside City Residents Using City Water, Sewer And Garbage: Outside
city limits residents receiving water, sewer and garbage services will be
issued a receipt for the purpose of dumping at the sanitary landfill upon their
presenting a current water bill and a driver's license matching the name on the
water account. Charges will be as follows:
 
Tandem truck load                             $30.00
Truck or trailer with side boards             25.00
Pickup trucks or trailers without side boards 15.00
4 bags of garbage or less                     10.00
 
   F.   Regular Use By Business: Inside city limit permanent businesses who use
the sanitary landfill on a regular basis may make arrangements with the billing
office to be billed on a monthly basis as per the rates listed below. Each
business will be issued receipts on a onetime basis to be presented to the
attendant at the gate for the sanitary landfill. Monthly billing will be based
upon the number of receipts used per month. Fees for businesses will be as
follows:
 
Tandem truck load                           $100.00
Truck or trailer with side board            80.00
Pickup truck or trailer without side boards 70.00
 
Any business needing to have its debris buried for health reasons not dealing
with chemicals and/or contaminated material will be charged at one hundred
twenty five dollars ($125.00) per load.
   G.   Verification Of Source Of Debris: When deemed necessary, the sanitation
department reserves the right to verify location from which the resident claims
debris is being generated. Only after determining the validity of location will
a receipt be issued.
   H.   Fill Materials: All fill materials such as concrete, brick and
noncontaminated dirt may be dumped at the sanitary landfill or at a designated
location at no charge.
   I.   Disposal Of Tires: Tires will only be allowed at the sanitary landfill
if they are cut into four (4) pieces.
   J.   Contaminated Materials: Chemicals or any contaminated material will not
be allowed at the sanitary landfill. (Ord. 7-7-92A, 7-7-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-3-12 of this code.
8-5-6: ELECTRIC RATES:
The tariff sheets attached to ordinance 4-21-92, on file in the office of the
city secretary and made a part hereof, are approved for implementation within
the city effective May 1, 1992. Such tariffs shall apply to all electric
service rendered on or after May 1, 1992. The tariffs, including rate
schedules, herein approved, shall continue in effect until changed, modified,
amended or withdrawn in accordance with applicable laws. (Ord. 4-21-92, 4-21-
1992)
8-5-7: NATURAL GAS RATES:
   A.   Gas Service Rates Established: Rio Grande Valley Gas Company, a
Delaware corporation, its successors or assigns, hereby is authorized to charge
no more for natural gas sold at its general service rate and firm
transportation rate, which shall be available to all of its customers in the
city, than is provided in its general service rate schedule and firm gas
transportation service rate schedule which is attached to ordinance dated
January 28, 1992, as exhibit A on file in the office of the city secretary and
made a part hereof.
   B.   Customer Call Rates: Rio Grande Valley Gas Company, its successors or
assigns, hereby is authorized to charge no more for customer service calls than
is provided for in the service rate schedule which is attached to an ordinance
dated January 28, 1992, on file in the office of the city secretary and made a
part hereof as if copied herein in full.
   C.   Effective Date: Such general service rate schedule and firm gas
transportation rate schedule shall be placed in effect on all bills rendered
beginning February 1, 1992. (Ord., 1-28-1992)
8-5-8: RATE DISPUTES:
In the event a question should arise as to what sewer or garbage rate should
apply to a particular establishment or in what category an establishment should
be included, the city secretary shall decide the applicable rate and the proper
category to which the entity or establishment belongs. Any persons dissatisfied
with the determination by the city secretary shall have the right to appeal to
the board of commissioners. (Ord. 86-21, 11-10-1986)
8-5-9: USE OF CITY SERVICES; LATE PAYMENT PENALTIES:
   A.   Use Of City Services: Any person who avails himself of any of the three
(3) city services shall be required to use all three (3) and pay the rates set
out in this chapter. (Ord. 86-21, 11-10-1986)
   B.   Payment Of Charges; Late Penalties: Any person or other entities who
shall fail to pay the charges set forth above shall be subject to subsection 8-
1-3F of this title. (Ord. 86-21, 11-10-1986; amd. Ord. 17-09-14, 9-2-2014)
8-5-10: FEES AND POLICY FOR PRIVATE SEWER UNPLUG:
   A.   Any resident receiving city of Alamo sanitation sewer may request
assistance from the city to unplug their private sewer line. Such service will
be provided only if and when the city maintenance crew has verified that the
sewer plug up is not the city main sewer line.
   B.   Upon verification that the sewer plug up is on the customer's line and
before any work order is dispatched, the property owner must sign a release of
liability in the utility billing/collections department. This release of
liability form releases the city of Alamo, its officers, administration, and
employees from any and all liability for damages or claims during the course of
the unplugging of private sewer lines on private property.
   C.   Such release of liability must be signed by the property owner, and
having shown proper identification, will be notarized by a staff member in the
utility billing/collections department.
   D.   The board of commissioners of the city of Alamo hereby sets a fee of
eighty dollars ($80.00) to offset the costs of unplugging a private sewer line.
In the event that the sewer unplug is unsuccessful and the city crew has been
diligent in its efforts, the fee will not be refunded. (Ord. 26-09-13, 9-24-
2013)
CHAPTER 6
ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
SECTION:
8-6-1: Purpose
8-6-2: Definitions
8-6-3: Responsibility For Administration
8-6-4: Severability
8-6-5: Ultimate Responsibility
8-6-6: Discharge Prohibitions
8-6-7: Suspension Of MS4 Access
8-6-8: Industrial Or Construction Activity Discharges
8-6-9: Monitoring Of Discharges
8-6-10: Requirements To Prevent, Control, And Reduce Stormwater Pollutants By
The Use Of Best Management Practices
8-6-11: Watercourse Protection
8-6-12: Notification Of Spills
8-6-13: Enforcement
8-6-14: Appeal Of Notice Of Violation
8-6-15: Enforcement Measures After Appeal
8-6-16: Cost Of Abatement Of The Violation
8-6-17: Injunctive Relief
8-6-18: Compensatory Action
8-6-19: Violations Deemed A Public Nuisance
8-6-20: Criminal Prosecution
8-6-21: Remedies Not Exclusive
8-6-22: Fines And Policy
8-6-1: PURPOSE:
The objectives are to regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user; to
prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal separate storm
sewer system; and to establish legal authority to carry out all inspections,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance. This
chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system generated on
any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by an authorized
enforcement agency. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter only, the following terms, words and phrases,
and their derivations, shall have the meanings set forth below, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY: Employees or designees of the director of the
municipal agency, the TCEQ, and/or the EPA designated to enforce this chapter
and/or to enforce the TPDES and/or to enforce the NPDES regulations.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational procedures, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, and stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
material storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT: The federal water pollution control act (33 USC 1251 et
seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: Construction activities subject to TPDES construction
permits. Currently these include construction projects resulting in land
disturbance of one acre or more, as defined by the TPDES program. Such
activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading,
excavating and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any material, including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE: Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in section
8-6-6 of this chapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS: Drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system
including, but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater
discharge including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the
storm drains system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor
drains and sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been
previously allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency
or, any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use
to the storm drain system which has been documented in plans, maps, or
equivalent records and approved by the authorized enforcement agency, or
approved by an individual NPDES or TPDES permit.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES: Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR, section 122.26(b)(14).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the environmental protection agency (EPA) that
authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether
the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area wide basis.
   NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON: Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT: Anything which causes, contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES: Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM: Publicly owned facilities by which stormwater is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
humanmade or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
   STORMWATER: Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of precipitation and resulting from such precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN: A document which describes the best
management practices activities to be implemented by a person or business to
identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   TEXAS POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (TPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT: A permit issued by the state of Texas, namely the Texas commission on
environmental quality (TCEQ), under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC 1342
(b) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States,
whether the permit is applicable on an individual, group, or general area wide
basis.
   WASTEWATER: Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-3: RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION:
The stormwater department shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
Solely the authorized individual under this section designated to enforce this
chapter shall have the authority to enforce this chapter in its entirety and
shall be designated as a TPDES stormwater manager and/or designee. The
stormwater department shall issue individual badges, identification,
credentials, and provide for annual training to assure compliance with the laws
of the state and federal regulators.
All municipal departments shall comply with the requirements of this chapter
and are required to incorporate the authority of the authorized individual into
its respective daily operations. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-4: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any
provision, clause, sentence, or paragraph of this chapter or the application
thereof to any person, establishment, circumstances, shall be held invalid,
such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions or application of this
chapter. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-5: ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY:
The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-6: DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Illegal Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than stormwater.
The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm
drain system is prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law applicable or prevailing at the time of connection except
as described as follows:
      1.   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this chapter: water line flushing or other potable sources,
landscape, irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising
groundwater, groundwater infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped
groundwater, foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater
dewatering systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated typically less than 1 PPM chlorine),
firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants.
      2.   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agency
as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge but requires authorization by
the stormwater department, prior to the time of the test.
      4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under the TPDES or NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order
issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the TCEQ or
the EPA, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all the
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
   B.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections:
      1.   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      2.   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitations, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      3.   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-7: SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS:
   A.   Suspension Due To Illicit Discharges In Emergency Situations: The
stormwater department may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access
to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened
discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps
as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or water of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   B.   Suspension Due To The Detection of Illicit Discharge: Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the authorized
enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-8: INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES:
Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity TPDES or NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the stormwater department prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4. (Ord.
04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-9: MONITORING OF DISCHARGES:
   A.   Applicability: This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   B.   Access To Facilities:
      1.   The stormwater department or designee shall be permitted to enter
and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may
be necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
      2.   Facility operators shall allow the stormwater department ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of a
TPDES or NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of any
additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      3.   The stormwater department shall have the right to set up on any
permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
stormwater department to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's
stormwater discharge.
      4.   The stormwater department has the right to require the discharger to
install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's sampling and
monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to
measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their
accuracy.
      5.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the stormwater department and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
operator.
      6.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the stormwater department access to
a permitted facility is a violation of the stormwater discharge permit and of
this chapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a TPDES or NPDES
permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an
offense if the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable
access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity
authorized or required by this chapter.
      7.   If the stormwater department has been refused access to any part of
the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be violation of this
chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine
inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this chapter
or any issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety, and
welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency may seek
issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord.
04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-10: REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES:
The stormwater department will adopt requirements identifying best management
practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause or
contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain system,
or waters of the state and U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premises, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural
and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid TPDES or NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater
associated with industrial activity, the extent practicable, shall be deemed in
compliance with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a
stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWP3) as necessary for compliance with
requirements of the TPDES or NPDES. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-11: WATERCOURSE PROTECTION:
Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-12: NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS:
Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or waters of the state or
U.S. said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notification in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the stormwater department within three (3)
calendar days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials
emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator
of such establishment shall also retain an on site written record of the
discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall
be retained for at least three (3) years. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-13: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: Whenever the stormwater department finds that a
person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this
chapter, the stormwater department may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require without
limitation:
      1.   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      2.   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      3.   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      4.   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      5.   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs; and
      6.   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs. If abatement
of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is required, the notice
shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation or restoration must be
completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to
remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by
a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall
be charged to the violator. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-14: APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of the
stormwater department. The notice of appeal must be received within ten (10)
calendar days from the date of the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal
before the appropriate authority or his/her designee shall take place within
fifteen (15) calendar days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal.
The decision of the municipal authority or their designee shall be final. (Ord.
04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-15: ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL:
If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth
in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within fifteen (15)
calendar days of the decision of the municipal authority upholding the decision
of the authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the stormwater
department or designee shall enter upon the subject property and are authorized
to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or restore
the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-16: COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION:
Within thirty (30) calendar days after abatement of the violation, the owner of
the property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including
administrative costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting
to the amount of the assessment within ten (10) calendar days. If the amount
due is not paid within fifteen (15) calendar days as determined by the decision
of the municipal authority or by the expiration of the time in which to file an
appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against the property and
shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the assessment. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become liable to
the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be paid in not more
than twelve (12) equal payments. Interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) per
annum shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the tenth calendar day
following discovery of the violation. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-17: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to comply
with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the stormwater department
may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person
from activities which would create further violations or compelling the person
to perform abatement or remediation of the violation. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-18: COMPENSATORY ACTION:
In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by this
chapter, the stormwater department may impose upon a violator, alternative
compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at compliance
workshop, creek cleanup, etc. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-19: VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE:
In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any condition
caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared and
deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-20: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION:
Any person that has violated or continues to violate this chapter shall be
liable to criminal prosecution to the fullest extent of the law, and shall be
subject to a criminal penalty as per section 1-4-1 of this code and/or
imprisonment in accordance with V.T.C.A., Code Of Criminal Procedure section
26.01 et seq. The stormwater department may recover all attorney fees, court
costs and other expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including
sampling and monitoring expenses. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-21: REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the
discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-6-22: FINES AND POLICY:
The stormwater department is authorized to develop a schedule of fines and to
develop policy from time to time to assure the requirements of this chapter are
met. The schedule of fines shall adhere to applicable local, state and federal
laws. The policy shall include, but will not be limited to, development of a
comprehensive TPDES enforcement program, staff training requirements,
development of job descriptions, assignment of fines to specific violations,
budget requirements, and job assignments. (Ord. 04-06-12, 6-5-2012)
CHAPTER 7
WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION
SECTION:
8-7-1: Purpose
8-7-2: Scope And Intent
8-7-3: Definitions
8-7-4: General Prohibition
8-7-5: Used Oil/Vehicle Fluid
8-7-6: Household Hazardous Waste
8-7-7: Discharge From Fueling/Vehicle Washing Areas
8-7-8: Discharge From Oil-Water Separator/Grease Trap
8-7-9: Petroleum Underground Storage Tanks (PUST)
8-7-10: Utility Manhole/Vaults Discharge
8-7-11: Industrial Waste/Effluent Discharge
8-7-12: Sewage And Wastewater Discharges
8-7-13: Chlorinated Discharges
8-7-14: Construction, Development, Redevelopment And Land Disturbance Runoff
8-7-15: Pesticides, Herbicides, And Fertilizers
8-7-16: Commercial Dumpster Washing
8-7-17: Ready Mix Concrete Truck Washing
8-7-18: Illicit Connection
8-7-19: Pavement/Parking Lot Washing/Window Washing
8-7-20: Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCB) Elimination
8-7-21: Asbestos Elimination
8-7-22: Grass Trimmings, Leaves, And Limbs
8-7-23: Landscape Irrigation, Lawn Irrigation, And Other Irrigation
8-7-24: Acceptable Waters
8-7-25: Release Reporting And Cleanup
8-7-26: Right Of Entry, Inspection And Sampling
8-7-27: Violations And Noncompliance
8-7-28: Citizen Participation
8-7-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to control pollution and prevent polluted water
discharge into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) and/or water
bodies from residential, business, and commercial establishments, and to
preserve the natural flow of water and waterways within the city of Alamo. The
provisions in this chapter are intended to provide a natural environment, to
control nonstormwater runoff to the MS4 at its source, to minimize the adverse
effects of water pollution and to preserve our drinking water supplies. It is
also the purpose of this chapter to prevent wash water discharges into the MS4.
The resulting discharges pollute stormwater flows in ditches, streams, and
other waterways, and thereby create an unhealthy situation, degrade water
quality, cause loss of aquatic life and pose a threat to public health and
safety. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-2: SCOPE AND INTENT:
This chapter sets forth guidelines, standard practices, rules and regulations
to control polluted stormwater runoff and nonstormwater discharges from
residential, commercial, and industrial establishments. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-
2012)
8-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter only, the following terms, words and phrases,
and their derivations, shall have the meanings set forth below, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen by weight, expressed
in milligrams per liter (mg/l), utilized in the biological oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory conditions for five (5) days at a temperature
of twenty degrees centigrade (20°C).
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs): Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or
reduce the pollution of waters of the United States. BMPs also include
treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control site
runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw
material storage.
   CWA: Clean water act (formerly referred to as the federal water pollution
control act or federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972).
   CHLORINATED DISCHARGE: Any discharge having a quantity of chloride (free or
total) that exceeds the surface water quality standard of the state of Texas.
   CITY: The city of Alamo, Texas.
   COMMERCIAL DUMPSTER WASHING: The washing of commercial garbage or rubbish
dumpsters and the immediate area around them in order to remove putrescible
animal and vegetable waste material or other debris from said areas and
dumpsters.
   COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE: A construction activity that is
completed in separate stages or phases or in combination with other
construction activities. A common plan of development or sale is identified by
plats, blueprints, marketing plans, contracts, building permit applications, a
public notice or hearing, zoning requests, or other similar documentation.
   COMPOSITE: A sample used to determine average loadings or concentrations of
pollutants. A composite can be developed based on time or flow.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY (LARGE): Construction activities that result in land
disturbance of five (5) or more acres of land. Large construction activity also
includes the disturbance of less than five (5) acres of land area that is part
of a common plan of development or sale that will ultimately disturb five (5)
or more acres of land.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY (SMALL): Construction activities including clearing,
grading, and excavating that result in land disturbance of one or more but less
than five (5) acres of land. Small construction activity also includes the
disturbance of less than one acre of total land area that is part of a larger
common plan of development or sale if the large common plan will ultimately
disturb one or more but less than five (5) acres of land.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE OPERATOR: The person or persons associated with a small or
large construction project that is either:
   A.   The person or persons that have operational control over construction
plans and specifications including approval of revisions to the extent
necessary to meet the requirements and conditions of TXR40289; or
   B.   The person or persons that have day to day operational control of those
activities at a construction site that are necessary to ensure compliance with
a stormwater pollution prevention plan for the site.
   CONVEYANCE: Streets, curbs, gutters, manmade channels and ditches, drains,
pipes, and other constructed features designed or used for drainage or flood
control or to otherwise transport stormwater runoff.
   DISCHARGE: Any addition or introduction of any pollutant, stormwater, or any
other substance whatsoever into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4)
or into waters of the United States.
   DISCHARGE LIMITS: Any limit on discharges set by local, state or federal
governments. These limits may apply to quantity, rate, quality of discharge,
and concentrations or any combination thereof. These are also called effluent/
imitations.
   DISCHARGER: Any person who causes, allows, permits, or is otherwise
responsible for a discharge including, without limitation, any operator of a
construction site or industrial facility.
DO IT YOURSELF (DIY) USED OIL: Used oil that is generated by a person who
changes the person's own automotive oil.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA): The United States environmental
protection agency, the regional office thereof, any federal department, agency,
or commission that may succeed to the authority of the EPA, and any duly
authorized official of the EPA or such successor agency.
   EXCESSIVE WATER RUNOFF: Discharges deemed by the city to be significant
contributors of pollutants to the MS4 or other surface waters.
   FACILITY: Any building, structure, installation, process, or activity from
which there is or may be a discharge of a pollutant.
   FINAL STABILIZATION: Where the following conditions are met:
   A.   All soil disturbing activities have been completed and a uniform
perennial vegetative cover with a density of seventy percent (70%) of the
native background vegetative cover for the area has been established on all
unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures, or equivalent
permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of riprap, gabions, or
geotextiles) have been employed.
   B.   For individual lots in a residential construction site either:
      1.   The homebuilder completes final stabilization as specified in
subsection A of this definition; or
      2.   The homebuilder establishing temporary stabilization for an
individual lot prior to the time of transfer of the ownership of the home to
the buyer and informs the homeowner of the need for, and benefits of, final
stabilization.
   C.   For construction activities on land and used for agricultural purposes
(e.g., pipelines across crop or range land), final stabilization may be
accomplished by returning the disturbed land to its preconstruction
agricultural use. Areas disturbed that were not previously used for
agricultural activities, such as buffer strips immediately adjacent to a
surface water and areas which are not being returned to their preconstruction
agricultural use must meet the final stabilization conditions of subsection A
of this definition.
   FUELING/VEHICLE WASHING AREA: Any commercial/public location where any type
of motor vehicle or piece of heavy equipment is washed, waxed, cleaned or
degreased in any manner or any location where any type of motor vehicle is
fueled with petroleum products or any other type of fuel.
   GARBAGE: Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food; and from handling, processing, storage and sale of food
products and produce.
   GROUNDWATER INFILTRATION: Groundwater that enters the MS4 (including storm
sewer service connections and foundation drains) through such means as
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or manholes.
   HARMFUL/HAZARDOUS QUANTITY: The amount of any substance that will cause
pollution of water under state and federal law.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE: Any material, substance, byproduct, spent, obsolete or used
chemical or chemical compound which meets the standards for classification of a
hazardous waste or acutely hazardous waste as those terms are defined in 40 CFR
part 261 et seq., and any appendices thereto.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE (HHW): Any material generated in a household
(including, but not limited to, single and multiple residences, hotels and
motels, bunkhouses, ranger stations, crew quarters, campgrounds, picnic
grounds, and day use recreational areas) by a consumer such as, but not limited
to, batteries, paint brushes, paint containers, except for the exclusion
provided in 40 code of federal regulations (CFR) section 261.4(b)(1), would be
classified as a hazardous waste under 40 CFR part 261.
   ILLEGAL DUMPING: The act of illegally placing any material in any location
including, but not limited to, the MS4, waters of the state, water of the
United States, or any locations other than the appropriate place of disposal
whether the location is public or private.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION: Any manmade conveyance connecting an illicit discharge
directly to a municipal separate storm sewer or MS4 or waters of the United
States.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE: Any discharge to the MS4 that is not entirely composed of
stormwater, except discharges pursuant to TXR40289 or a separate authorization.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES: Manufacturing, processing, material storage, and
disposal areas and similar areas where stormwater can contact industrial
pollutants related to the industrial activity at an industrial facility
described by the TPDES multisector general permit, TXR40289, or by another TCEQ
or TPDES permit.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE: Liquids or other character of wastes resulting from any
commercial, manufacturing or industrial operations or process, excluding normal
domestic sanitary sewage unless it exceeds three hundred fifty milligrams (350
mg) BOD or three hundred fifty milligrams per liter (350 mg/l) total suspended
solids, which waterborne or liquid wastes enter the sewage system, or any
portion thereof, of the city.
   INLET: An entrance into a ditch, storm sewer or other waterway.
   LAND DISTURBANCE (OR SOIL DISTURBANCE): Any activity which involves the
physical movement or disturbance of earth material by mechanized means. This
includes excavating, filling, stockpiling, clearance of vegetation, grading,
compaction of soil, creation of borrow pits, or combination thereof. Land
disturbance does not include plowing, seeding, planting, cultivating, or
harvesting on a farm, including lands that have been lying fallow as part of a
conventional rotational cycle. Land disturbance does not include routine
maintenance performed to maintain the original line and grade, hydraulic
capacity and purpose of a ditch, channel or other similar stormwater
conveyance. Land disturbance does not include routine grading of existing dirt
roads, asphalt overlays of existing roads, routine clearing of existing rights
of way or other similar maintenance activities.
   LANDFILL: An area of land or excavation in which wastes are placed for
permanent disposal, which is permitted or registered by the state of Texas, and
which is not a land application unit, surface impoundment, injection well, or
waste pile.
MS4 OPERATOR: For the purpose of this chapter, the city of Alamo.
   MAXIMUM EXTENT PRACTICABLE: The technology based discharge standard for MS4s
to reduce pollutants in stormwater discharges established by the clean water
act.
   MOTOR VEHICLE FLUID: Any fluid used in any type of engine including, but not
limited to, fuel, oil, transmission fluid, coolant, brake fluid, windshield
washing fluid, and power steering fluid.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4): The system of conveyances
including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, inlets, ditches, manmade channels, or storm drains owned and operated
by the city and designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater and
which is not used for collecting or conveying sewage or wastewater.
   NPDES PERMIT: A permit issued by the EPA or by the state that authorizes the
discharge of pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is
applicable to an individual, group, or general area wide basis.
   NONCOMPLIANCE: Any infraction of the revised code of civil and criminal
ordinances of the city of Alamo, state regulations/laws or federal regulations/
laws.
   NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION: Pollution contained in stormwater runoff from ill
defined, diffuse sources.
   NOTIFY: Contacting the appropriate city official in writing in order to
request permission to apply or reapply for a specified permit, or to make the
official aware of an existing discharge or structure.
   OIL: Any kind of oil in any form, including, but not limited to, petroleum,
fuel oil, crude oil sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with waste or any
fraction thereof which is liquid at standard conditions of temperature and
pressure.
   OIL FILTER: An integral part of an oil flow system, the purpose of which is
to remove contaminants from the flowing oil contained within the system.
   OIL-WATER SEPARATOR/INTERCEPTOR: A device installed, usually at the entrance
of an inlet drain, which removes oil and grease from water flows entering
either the MS4 or sewer.
   OPERATOR: The person or persons who, either individually or in a group, meet
the following two (2) criteria: a) they have operational control over the
facility specifications (including the ability to make modifications in
specifications) and b) they have the day to day operational control over those
activities at the facility necessary to ensure compliance with pollution
prevention requirements and any permit conditions.
   OWNER: The person who owns a facility or part of a facility or his/her
assignee.
   OXYGEN DEMANDING SUBSTANCE: The chemical and/or microorganism mediated
oxidation of organic matter; and/or the biooxidation of nitrogenous material;
and/or chemical or biochemical oxidation of chemical reducing agents.
pH: The logarithm to the base 10 of the reciprocal of the concentration in
grams per liter of hydrogen ions; a measure of the acidity or alkalinity of a
solution, expressed in standard units. The pH may range from 0 to 14, where 0
is the most acidic and 14 is the most basic. Examples of substances having a pH
lower than 6.0 would be muratic acid, sulfuric acid, and acetic acid. Examples
of substances having a pH above 10.5 would be drain cleaner (sodium hydroxide),
bleach and ammonia.
   PAVEMENT WASH WATER: Any water used to wash any debris, sediment, fluid, or
putrescible matter from any paved area of a commercial or public facility.
   PERMITTEE: Any person or entity to whom a permit is issued pursuant to this
chapter and any authorized representative, agents or designee of such person or
entity.
   PERSON OR ENTITY: An individual, firm, copartnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, including any trustee, receiver,
assignee, or similar representative thereof, or government, Indian tribe,
agency or instrumentality of any government or Indian tribe, but such term does
not include:
   A.   The United States postal service; or
   B.   For the purpose of 49 USC 5123 and 5124, any agency or instrumentality
of the federal government.
   PETROLEUM SUBSTANCE: A crude oil or any refined or refined fraction or
derivative of crude oil, which is liquid at standard conditions of temperature
and pressure. A petroleum substance shall be limited to one or a combination of
the substances or mixtures in the following list except for any listed
substance regulated as a hazardous waste under the federal solid waste disposal
act, subtitle C, and (42 United States Code 56921, et seq.):
   A.   Basic petroleum substances: crude oils, crude oil fractions, petroleum
feed stocks, and petroleum fractions;
   B.   Motor fuel: petroleum substance which is typically used for the
operation of internal combustion engines (including stationary engines and
engines used in transportation vehicles and marine vessels) and which is one of
the following types of fuels: leaded or unleaded gasoline, aviation gasoline,
number 1 diesel fuel, number 2 diesel fuel, and any grades of gasohol;
   C.   Aviation gasoline: grade 80, grade 100, and grade 100-LL;
   D.   Aviation jet fuels: jet A, jet A-1, jet B, JP-4, JP-5, and JP-8;
   E.   Distillate fuel oils: number 1-D, number 1, number 2-D, and number 2;
   F.   Residual fuel oils: number 4-D, number 4-light, number 4, number 5-
light, number 5 heavy, and number 6;
   G.   Gas turbine fuel oils: grade O-CT, grade 1-GT, grade 2-GT, grade 3-GT,
and grade 4-GT;
   H.   Illuminating oils: kerosene, mineral seal oil, long time burning oils,
300 oil, and mineral colza oil;
   I.   Solvents: Stoddard solvent, petroleum spirits, mineral spirits,
petroleum ether, varnish makers' and painters' naphthas, petroleum extender
oils, and commercial hexane;
   J.   Lubricants: automotive and industrial lubricants;
   K.   Building materials: liquid asphalt and dust laying oils;
   L.   Insulating and weatherproofing materials: transformer oils and cable
oils;
   M.   Used oils: any oil or similar petroleum substance that has been refined
from crude oil, used for its designed or intended purposes, and contaminated as
a result of such use by physical or chemical impurities; and including spent
motor vehicle and aircraft lubricating oils (e.g., compressor, turbine,
bearing, hydraulic, metalworking, gear electrical, refrigerator oils, and spent
industrial process oils);
   N.   Any other petroleum based material having physical and chemical
properties similar to the previously listed materials.
   PETROLEUM UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (PUST): Any underground storage tanks
system that contains, has contained or will contain a petroleum substance, a
mixture of two (2) or more petroleum substances or a mixture of one or more
petroleum substances with very small amounts of one or more hazardous
substances. In order for PUST system containing a mixture of petroleum
substances with small amounts of hazardous substances to be classified as a
PUST system, the hazardous substance shall be at such dilute concentration that
the overall release detectability, effectiveness of corrective action, toxicity
of the basic petroleum substance is not altered to any significant degree.
   POINT SOURCE: Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance, including,
but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well discrete
fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation,
landfill leachate collection system, vessel or other floating craft from which
pollutants, are or may be discharged. This term does not include return flows
from irrigated agriculture or agricultural stormwater runoff.
   POLLUTANT: Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage,
sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive
materials, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, and
industrial municipal, and agricultural wastes discharged into water. The term
"pollutant" does not include tailwater or runoff water from irrigation or
rainwater runoff from cultivated or uncultivated rangeland, pastureland, and
farmland.
   POLLUTION: The alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical, or biological
quality of, or the contamination of, any water in the state that renders the
water harmful, detrimental, or injurious to humans, animal life, vegetation, or
property, or to the public health, safety, or welfare, or impairs the
usefulness or the public enjoyment of the water for any lawful or reasonable
purpose.
   POLLUTION PREVENTION MEASURES: Prescribed measures to reduce pollutants in
discharge through outfalls. These measures include, but are not limited to,
treatment, pretreatment, a best management practice or a method to reduce the
pollution of projects classified as light construction and land disturbance
activities.
   POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYL (PCBs): A series of technical mixtures consisting
of many isomers and compounds that vary from mobile oil liquids to white
crystalline solids and hard concrystalline resins. Technical products include,
but are not limited to, arochlor, chlopen, chlorextol, chloro biphenyl, chloro-
1, 1-biphenyl, chlorodiphenylene, clophen, kykanol, fenclor, inerteen,
kanechlor, montar, noflamol, PCB (DOT, USDA) phenochlor, pyranol, santotherm,
sovol, and therminol Fr-1. PCBs are confirmed carcinogens and tumorigens and
are listed on the EPA extremely hazardous substances list.
   PUBLIC USED OIL COLLECTION CENTER: A facility which accepts do it yourself
used oil. Such centers include:
   A.   Automotive service facilities that in the course of business accept for
recycling, small quantities of used oil from private citizens;
   B.   Facilities that store used oil in aboveground tanks, and that in the
course of business accept, for recycling, small quantities of used oil from
private citizens; and
   C.   Publicly sponsored collection facilities that are designated and
authorized by the Texas department of state health services to accept for
recycling, small quantities of used oil from private citizens.
   QUALIFIED PERSONNEL: Persons who possess the appropriate competence, skills,
and ability (as demonstrated by sufficient education, training, experience,
and/or, when applicable, any required certification or licensing) to perform a
specific activity in a timely and complete manner consistent with the
applicable regulatory requirements and generally accepted industry standards
for such activity.
   REDEVELOPMENT: Alterations of a property that changed the "footprint" of a
site or building in such a way that there is a disturbance of equal to or
greater than one acre of land. This term does not include such activities as
exterior remodeling.
   RELEASE: Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, infecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) or the waters of the United States.
   REPORTABLE QUANTITY (RQ): The quantity specified in column 3 of the appendix
to 49 CFR part 107.101 for any material identified in column 1.
   RIPARIAN HABITAT: The area of the banks of any river, creek, lake, pond, or
other waterway where specialized life form exist.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid waste, excluding ashes, that consist of: a)
combustible waste materials, including paper, rags, cartons, wood, excelsior,
furniture, rubber, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves, and similar materials and
b) noncombustible waste materials, including glass, crockery, tin cans,
aluminum cans, metal furniture, and similar materials that or which do not burn
at ordinary incinerator temperatures (1600 to 1800 degrees Fahrenheit).
   SANITARY SEWER (OR SEWER): The system of pipes, conduits, and other
conveyances which carry industrial waste and domestic sewage from residential
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and
institutions, whether treated or untreated, to the city sewage treatment plant
and to which stormwater, surface water, and groundwater are not intentionally
admitted.
   SEDIMENT: Solid particular matter, both mineral and organic, that is in
suspension, is being transported or has been moved from its site of origin by
water, air, ice, or gravity and has come to rest on the earth's surface either
above or below sea level.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE: Any domestic sewage from holding tanks such as from
vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers, and septic tanks.
   SEWAGE (OR SANITARY SEWAGE): The waste from water closets, urinals,
lavatories, sinks, bathtubs, showers, household laundries, basement floor
drains, garage floor drains, storerooms, soda fountains, cuspidors,
refrigerator drips, fountain and stable floor drains, and all other similar
fixtures and receptacles that discharge wastes into sewage systems.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A dwelling unit contained in a freestanding
structure designed for occupancy by a single family.
   SITE: The land or water area where any facility or activity is physically
located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection with the
facility or activity.
   SITE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT: A permit issued by the city for the alteration of
the ground for the construction or installation of utilities, streets,
sidewalks, structures, designed to control erosion and runoff and other grading
activities that are not a part of a project that requires a building permit.
   SOIL: Naturally occurring superficial deposits overlaying bedrock.
   SOLID WASTE: Any garbage, rubbish, refuse, sludge from waste treatment
plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility, and
other discarded material, including, solid, liquid, semisolid, or contained
gaseous material resulting from industrial, municipal, commercial, mining, and
agricultural operations, and from community and institutional activities.
   STATE: The state of Texas.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM (SWMP): A comprehensive program to manage the
quality of discharges into the city of Alamo's MS4.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF: Stormwater runoff, snowmelt runoff, and surface runoff
and drainage.
   STRUCTURE CONTROLS: A pollution prevention practice that requires the
construction or use of a device to capture or prevent pollution in stormwater
runoff. Structural controls and practices may include, but are not limited to:
wet ponds, bioretention, infiltration basins, stormwater wetlands, silt fences,
earthen dikes, drainage swales, vegetative lined ditches, vegetative filter
strips, sediment traps, check dams, subsurface drains, storm drain inlet
protection, rock outlet protection, reinforced soil retaining systems, gabions,
and temporary or permanent sediment basins.
   SURFACE WATER IN THE STATE: Lakes, bays, ponds, impounding reservoirs,
springs, rivers, streams, creeks, estuaries, wetlands, marshes, inlets, canals,
the Gulf Of Mexico from the mean high water level out of 10.36 miles into the
gulf, and all other bodies of surface water, natural or artificial, inland or
coastal, fresh or salt, navigable or nonnavigable, and including the beds and
banks of all watercourses and bodies of surface water, that are wholly or
partially inside or bordering the state or subject to the jurisdiction of the
state; except that waters in treatment systems which are authorized by state or
federal law or permit, and which are created for the purpose of wastewater
treatment are not considered to be water in the state.
   TCEQ: The Texas commission on environmental quality.
   TRANSPORTER: Any person who transports or plans to transport over public
highways of this state more than five hundred (500) gallons of used automotive
oil annually.
   UNCONTAMINATED: Not containing a harmful quantity of any substance under
state and federal law.
   UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK: Any one or combination of underground tanks and
any connecting underground pipes used to contain an accumulation of regulated
substances, the volume of which, including the volume of the connecting
underground pipes, is ten percent (10%) or more beneath the surface of the
ground.
   USED OIL: Any oil that has been refined from crude oil or as a synthetic oil
that, as a result of use, storage, or handling, has become unsuitable for its
original purpose because of impurities or the loss of original properties, but
that may be suitable for further use and recyclable.
   UTILITY VAULT: An underground or enclosed structure installed or constructed
for the purpose of enclosing utility lines including, but not limited to,
electrical transmission lines, telephone connection lines, natural gas
conveyance lines, cable television lines, but not water mains, storm sewer or
sanitary sewer lines.
   WASH WATER: Any water used to wash any structure, parking lot, vehicle, or
piece of heavy equipment.
   WATER BODIES: Any groundwater, percolating, or otherwise, lakes, bays,
ponds, impounding reservoirs, springs, rivers, streams, creeks, estuaries,
marshes, inlets, canals, the Gulf Of Mexico, inside the territorial limits of
the state, and all bodies of surface water, natural or artificial, inland or
coastal, fresh or salt, navigable or nonnavigable, including the beds and banks
of all watercourses and bodies of surface water that are wholly or partially
inside or bordering the state or inside the jurisdiction of the state.
   WATER QUALITY STANDARD: The designation of a body or segment of surface
water in the state for desirable uses and the narrative and numerical criteria
deemed by the state to be necessary to protect those uses, as specified in
chapter 307 of title 31 of the Texas administrative code.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES: A. Waters which are currently used, were used
in the past, or may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign commerce,
including all waters which are subject to the ebb and flow of the tide.
   B.   All interstate waters, including interstate wetlands.
   C.   All other waters such as interstate lakes, rivers, streams (including
intermittent streams), mudflats, sandflats, wetlands, sloughs, prairie
potholes, wet meadows, play lakes or natural ponds the use, degradation, or
destruction of which would affect or could affect interstate or foreign
commerce including any such water:
      1.   Which are or could be used by interstate or foreign travelers for
recreational or other purposes;
      2.   From which fish or shellfish are or could be taken and sold in
interstate or foreign commerce; or
      3.   Which are used or could be used for industrial purpose by industries
in interstate commerce;
      4.   All impoundments of waters otherwise defined as waters of the United
States under this definition;
      5.   Tributaries of waters identified in subsections C1 through C4 of
this definition;
      6.   The territorial sea; and
      7.   Wetlands adjacent to waters (other than waters that are themselves
wetlands) identified in subsections C1 through C6 of this definition.
Waste treatment system, including treatment ponds or lagoons designed to meet
the requirements of CWA are not waters of the United States. This exclusion
applies only to manmade bodies of water which neither were originally created
in waters of the United States (such as disposal areas of wetlands) nor
resulted from the impoundment of waters of the United States.
   WETLANDS: An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or ground water
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under normal
circumstances does support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for
life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps, marshes,
bogs, and similar areas. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-4: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
   A.   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4 or
water bodies any discharge that causes or contributes to causing the city to
violate a water quality standard, the city's TPDES permit, or any state issued
discharge permit for discharges from its MS4 or water bodies.
   B.   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4 or
water bodies any harmful quantity of sediment, silt, earth, soil, or other
material associated with clearing, grading, excavations or other construction
activities in excess of what could be retained on site or captured by employing
sediment and erosion control measures to the maximum extent practicable; for
the duration of the project.
   C.   No person shall dump, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, discharge,
leach, dispose, or otherwise, cause, allow, or permit to be introduced any of
the following substances into the MS4 or water bodies.
   D.   No person shall introduce or discharge or cause or permit to be
discharged into the MS4 or water bodies within the city limits of the following
sections, except as authorized by a valid permit from the city, TCEQ or the
EPA. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-5: USED OIL/VEHICLE FLUID:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the amount of
pollutants like oil, grease, heavy metals, and oxygen demanding substances in
stormwater discharges.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Introduce used oil, used oil filters, or any other motor vehicle
fluids to the MS4 or water bodies;
      2.   Apply used oil and/or vehicle fluid to a road or land for dust
suppression, weed abatement, or other similar use that introduces used oil
contamination into the environment;
      3.   Introduce flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases such as,
but not limited to, gasoline, motor oil, benzene, naphtha, and similar
substances to any water bodies and/or the MS4; or
      4.   Introduce any wax, grease, oil, antifreeze, or any other motor
vehicle fluid to any water bodies and/or to the MS4.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that all citizens shall recycle
their used motor oil and vehicle fluids by disposing of them at appropriate
recycling centers and locations, rather than disposing of them improperly. This
applies only to residential do it yourself (DIY) motor oil and vehicle fluids.
Commercial and industrial businesses should have their own vendors for proper
disposal or for recycling. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-6: HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to discourage the practice
of disposing household hazardous waste such as paint, batteries, cleaning
agents, and fertilizers, to the MS4 and/or water bodies, so as to reduce the
pollutants such as heavy metals, nutrients, toxic material, oil, and grease in
stormwater discharges.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Introduce any type of hazardous waste generated in and around a
household including, but not limited to, batteries, used paints, solvents, used
pesticide bottles/cans, and used toiletries into the MS4;
      2.   Discharge a household hazardous waste having a pH value lower than
6.0 or higher than 10.5; or
      3.   Place or cause, or allow to be placed, a household hazardous waste
within the MS4 and/or water bodies. It shall be also unlawful for any person to
place, or cause or allow to be placed, a household hazardous waste in an inlet
within any street in the corporate limits of the city in such a manner that the
same may be washed by the flow of water into the MS4 and/or water bodies.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that unused portions of household
hazardous products that are considered to be household hazardous waste should
be disposed of properly at a household hazardous waste collection site. (Ord.
05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-7: DISCHARGE FROM FUELING/VEHICLE WASHING AREAS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to discourage the practice
of discharging contaminated water or waste such as grease trap waste, oil-water
separator waste, into the MS4 and/or water bodies and to reduce pollutants such
as detergents, sediments from fueling and vehicle washing areas.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Introduce into the MS4 and/or water bodies any contaminated water or
waste from any fundraising car wash or a commercial car wash facility, from any
vehicle washing, cleaning, or maintenance area at any new or used automobile or
other vehicle dealership, rental agency, body shop, repair shop, maintenance
facility, or from any washing, cleaning, or maintenance area of any commercial
or public service vehicle, including any truck, bus or piece of heavy
equipment, by any business or public entity;
      2.   Introduce into the MS4 and/or water bodies any wash water from the
washing, cleaning, deicing or other maintenance of aircraft; or
      3.   Discharge into the MS4 and/or water bodies any contaminated water or
waste from commercial establishments including, but not limited to, gas
stations, service stations, and auto repair shops with areas exposed to weather
conditions.
      4.   Introduce into the MS4 and/or water bodies any excessive water from
the washing, cleaning, or other maintenance of vehicles at residential homes.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that any contaminated water or waste
discharges from the aforementioned commercial and industrial areas are
prohibited without the presence of a functional pretreatment system. Viable
alternatives to washing include the use of sweeping and vacuuming, dry wash
methods and closed loop systems. Viable alternatives to residential washing
include the use of commercial car wash facilities, washing vehicles on pervious
surface areas, and dry wash methods. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-8: DISCHARGE FROM OIL-WATER SEPARATOR/GREASE TRAP:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as oil, grease, oxygen demanding substances, and nutrients from illicit
connections of oil-water separators/grease traps into the MS4 and/or water
bodies.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge from an oil-water separator or an oil-water interceptor or
grease trap into the MS4 and/or water bodies;
      2.   Discharge flow from an oil-water separator or an oil-water
interceptor having a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.5.
   C.   Implications: All the oil-water separator or interceptor users who are
discharging to the MS4 shall notify the stormwater manager or designee of the
existence of such connections to the MS4 and/or water bodies. Such notification
shall be completed within ninety (90) days of the approval of this chapter. It
is the responsibility of the operator to notify the stormwater manager or
designee. If the notification is not made during the allocated ninety (90)
days, then the detected connections to MS4 and/or water bodies of an oil-water
separator or interceptor shall be considered an illicit connection. The city
reserves the right to terminate such connection immediately, without prior
notice. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-9: PETROLEUM UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS (PUST):
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as oil, grease, oxygen demanding substances, and heavy metals that may be
introduced into the MS4 and/or water bodies during the removal, replacement, or
remediation of petroleum underground storage tanks and sites.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Release from a PUST, or any leachate or runoff from soil
contaminated by a leaking PUST, or any discharge of pumped, confined, or
partially treated wastewater from the remediation of any such PUST release is
prohibited unless the discharge satisfies all of the following criteria:
         a.   Compliance with all local, state, and federal standard
requirements and regulations;
         b.   No discharge contains harmful quantity of any pollutant; and
         c.   Shall not have a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.5.
   C.   Implications: It is the responsibility of the owner of the property to
notify the stormwater manager or designee of the removal or replacement of a
PUST. Such notification shall be completed not less than three (3) working days
before any activity begins on the site. If the notification is not made before
the site activities commence, the owner will be considered noncompliant with
this chapter. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-10: UTILITY MANHOLE/VAULTS DISCHARGE:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as bacteria, nutrients, sediments, oil, grease, and any unknown substance
discharges from utility manholes or vaults into the MS4 and/or water bodies.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge from any public or private underground utility manhole
(including, but not limited to, electric power, gas pipeline, cable companies,
telephone companies) to discharge its collected water (due to rain or surface
runoff or cross connection or illegal discharge) into the MS4 and/or water
bodies or watercourse; or
      2.   Discharge into MS4 and/or water bodies from a utility manhole a flow
having a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.5.
   C.   Implications: All the utility manhole/vault operators who are
discharging potentially contaminated collected water into the MS4 and/or water
bodies shall notify the stormwater manager or designee of the existence of such
utility manholes, vaults, and discharges into the MS4 and/or water bodies. Such
notification shall be completed within sixty (60) working days of the approval
of this chapter. It is the responsibility of the operators to obtain a single
use discharge permit from the stormwater manager or designee for every
discharge and also prove with the aid of analytical testing that the discharged
flow is not contaminated, if the discharged flow is not pretreated. (Ord. 05-
06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-11: INDUSTRIAL WASTE/EFFLUENT DISCHARGE:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as toxic materials, heavy metals, oil, grease, and untreated sewage in
stormwater discharges from industrial facilities.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge or introduce any effluent including, but not limited to, a
cooling tower, condenser, compressor, emissions scrubber, emissions filter, or
the blow from a boiler into the MS4 and/or water bodies; or
      2.   Discharge or introduce any type of industrial waste or effluent and/
or any discharge having a pH value lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.5 into the
MS4 and/or water bodies.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that none of the aforementioned
unpermitted industrial discharges will be allowed in the MS4 and/or water
bodies. The industries are asked to apply for individual TPDES permits from the
TCEQ. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-12: SEWAGE AND WASTEWATER DISCHARGES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as sewage entering surface water bodies from septic systems.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge any type of wastewater from residential, commercial or
industrial sources into the MS4 and/or water bodies;
      2.   Discharge or introduce any domestic sewage or septic tank waste,
grease trap waste, or grit trap waste from either residential, commercial or
industrial sites into the MS4 and/or water bodies;
      3.   Discharge any runoff or wash down water from any animal pen, kennel,
or fowl, or livestock containment area.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that no domestic sewage, septic tank
waste, grease trap waste, waste from animal containment areas or grit trap
waste may enter into the MS4 and/or water bodies. This includes areas where the
naturally occurring movement of water through the soil may cause the sewage to
migrate into said water bodies and/or the MS4. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-13: CHLORINATED DISCHARGES:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as excess chlorine in water discharges from swimming pools, fountains,
ponds, and water line disinfection.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge any swimming pool water or filter backwash from swimming
pool or fountain into the MS4 and/or water bodies;
      2.   Discharge from a water line if it has been disinfected by super
chlorination or other means and the total residual chlorine exists in any
harmful quantity or any other chemical has been used in line disinfection; or
      3.   Treat sewage overflows with harmful amounts (detrimental to aquatic
life) of chlorine to the MS4 and/or water bodies.
   C.   Implications: This implies that discharges with hazardous amounts of
chlorine, including, but not limited to, the aforementioned discharges, may
enter water bodies and/or the MS4. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-14: CONSTRUCTION, DEVELOPMENT, REDEVELOPMENT AND LAND DISTURBANCE RUNOFF:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as sediments, heavy metals, toxic material, and nutrients in the
stormwater discharges from construction, development, redevelopment, and land
disturbance activities/sites.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge from a construction site flowing having a pH value lower
than 6.0 or higher than 10.5;
      2.   Discharge any type of industrial waste from construction sites to
the MS4 and/or water bodies;
      3.   Introduce any garbage, rubbish, or yard waste into the MS4 and/or
water bodies;
      4.   Discharge, including, but not limited to, paint or paint brush
cleaning water or solvents or thinners or turpentine or any other combination
from single-family dwelling or any construction;
      5.   Leave unused construction materials or used construction materials
or debris on the construction, development, redevelopment, and land disturbance
sites. All on site debris shall be properly disposed of in the landfill within
ten (10) days from the occupancy of the structures; or
      6.   Wash any type of trucks, including, but not limited to, ready mix
trucks or material supply trucks near an area where it discharges directly into
the MS4 and/or water bodies.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that the aforementioned discharges
and/or materials associated with construction, development, redevelopment, and
land disturbance activities may enter water bodies and/or MS4s. (Ord. 05-06-12,
6-5-2012)
8-7-15: PESTICIDES, HERBICIDES, AND FERTILIZERS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce pollutants such as
pesticides, fertilizers, heavy metals, oxygen demanding substance, and
nutrients in the stormwater discharges. Any person using such pesticides or
fertilizers will be properly trained and be certified to use such chemicals.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Dispose of, discard, store, or transport a pesticide, herbicide, or
fertilizer, or a pesticide, herbicide, or fertilizer container, in a manner
that allows a harmful quantity of the pesticide, herbicide, or fertilizer to
enter the MS4 and/or water bodies.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that pesticides, herbicides and
fertilizers must be applied responsibly. It is recognized that excess
pesticides will migrate into the MS4 even under normal and proper usage. It is
the intent of this chapter to restrict usage of those chemicals in a manner
deemed appropriate by their manufacturer and consistent with the federal
insecticide, fungicide, rodenticide act (FIFRA). (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-16: COMMERCIAL DUMPSTER WASHING:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as bacteria and unknown substances in wastewater discharges from dumpster
washing.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Wash a commercial dumpster, regardless of its location, in an area
where it discharges directly into the MS4 and/or water bodies.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that wash water from commercial
dumpster washings may not enter any water body and/or the MS4. This water must
be contained and entered into the sanitary sewer according to the requirements
set forth by the stormwater manager or designee. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-17: READY MIX CONCRETE TRUCK WASHING:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce pollutants such as
sediments, concrete, altered pH, and oxygen demanding substances in the wash
water discharges.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Wash residual ready mix concrete from concrete mixing trucks
regardless of its location, in and where discharges might enter the MS4 and/or
water bodies.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that wash water from concrete mixing
or excess concrete from concrete mixing trucks may not be discharged into the
MS4 and/or water bodies. The washing is permitted in the ready mix concrete
plants only if collected, contained and pretreated before discharging into the
sanitary sewer in accordance with the requirements set forth by the stormwater
manager or designee. The washing is permitted within the construction site only
if collected, contained and disposed of in accordance with best management
practices set forth by the stormwater manager or designee. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-
2012)
8-7-18: ILLICIT CONNECTION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to eliminate illicit
connections to the MS4 and reduce the pollutants such as nutrients, oxygen
demanding substance, sewage, oil, and grease introduced by said discharges into
the MS4 and/or water bodies.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Connect a line conveying sanitary sewage, domestic waste, or
industrial effluent to the MS4 and/or water bodies, allow such a connection to
continue.
   C.   Implications: The stormwater manager or designee has an "illicit
discharge detection and elimination program" to the MS4 and water bodies in
compliance with state and federal stormwater regulations. Any illicit
connections detected through this program will be dealt with expeditiously in
the following: It is the responsibility of the owner of the property to
disconnect such illicit connection within fifteen (15) calendar days upon
written notification from the city. The city will also notify the tenant about
the illicit connection. If the owner fails to respond to the notification, then
the city will post the illicit connection information with a legal description
of the property in a local newspaper with an additional ten (10) days to
respond. If no response is received from the owner, then the illicit connection
will be disconnected by the city without further notification. (Ord. 05-06-12,
6-5-2012)
8-7-19: PAVEMENT/PARKING LOT WASHING/WINDOW WASHING:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as sediments, detergents, oxygen demanding substances, heavy metals, oil,
and grease in the wash water discharges from pavements or parking lots from
commercial and business establishments.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge any wastewater from the washing or cleaning of pavement
including, but not limited to, parking lots, driveways, or carports that
contain soap, detergent, solvent, degreaser, emulsifier, dispersant, or any
other harmful cleaning substance or any wastewater from the wash down or other
cleaning of any pavements where any spill, leak, or other release of oil, motor
fuel, or other petroleum or hazardous substance has occurred, unless all
harmful quantities of such released material have been previously removed or
pretreated; or
      2.   Discharge any wash water from a commercial mobile power washer or
from the washing or other cleaning of a pavement or building exterior,
including, but not necessarily limited to, windows, that contain any soap,
detergent, degreaser, solvent, or any other harmful cleaning substance to MS4
and/or water bodies.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that wash water from the washing of
pavement including, but not limited to, parking lots, driveways, building
exteriors or carports may not enter any water body and/or the MS4 without
proper treatment. The washing is permitted only if collected, contained and
pretreated before discharging into the sanitary sewer on accordance with
requirements set forth by the stormwater manager or designee or if collected,
contained and disposed of in accordance with approved best management practices
set forth by the same. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-20: POLYCHLORINATED BIPHENYLS (PCB) ELIMINATION:
Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs; CAS number 1336-36-3) are class of organic
compounds with one to ten (10) chlorine atoms attached to biphenyl, which is a
molecule composed of two (2) benzene rings. The chemical formula for PCBs is
C12 H10-x C1x. PCBs were widely used for many applications, especially as
dielectric fluids in transformers, capacitors, and coolants. Due to PCBs
toxicity and classification as a persistent organic pollutant, PCB production
was banned by the United States congress in 1979, and by the Stockholm
Convention On Persistent Organic Pollutants in 2001.
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the possibility of
contamination of stormwater by PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls).
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge, introduce, cause or permit any PCB or any substance known
or suspected of containing PCBs, or technical products classified as PCBs, or
derivatives of PCBs into MS4 and/or water bodies, or any location that is
susceptible to stormwater runoff within the city's jurisdictional limits.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that no PCBs, substance containing
PCBs, or substance suspected of containing PCBs shall be introduced into any
water body and/or MS4. The public utility companies such as power, gas,
telephone, shall notify the stormwater manager or designee of any such spills,
leaks, overflows from sources including, but not limited to, transformers and
capacitors within three (3) hours of such mishaps. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-21: ASBESTOS ELIMINATION:
Asbestos is a set of six (6) naturally occurring silicate minerals exploited
commercially for their desirable physical properties. They all have in common
their asbestiform habit, long, thin fibrous crystals. The inhalation of
asbestos fibers can cause serious illnesses, including malignant lung cancer,
mesothelioma, and asbestosis.
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the possibility of
contamination of stormwater by asbestos.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge, introduce, cause or permit to be discharged any asbestos
or any substance known or suspected of containing asbestos, or technical
products classified as asbestos, derivatives of asbestos into the MS4 and/or
water bodies, or any location that is susceptible to stormwater runoff within
the city's jurisdictional limits.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that no asbestos, substance
containing asbestos, or substance suspected of containing asbestos may be
introduced into any water body or MS4. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-22: GRASS TRIMMINGS, LEAVES, AND LIMBS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce pollutants like
sediments, nutrients, floatable materials, oxygen demanding substances,
pesticides, and unknowns in the stormwater discharges from trimmings of grass,
leaves and limbs.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Intentionally place or cause or allow to be placed, or dropped,
brush cuttings, grass clippings, grass, and/or rubbish in the inlets of any
street in the city limits in such a manner that the same may be washed by water
flowing into any bodies of water and/or the MS4.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that no brush cuttings, grass
clippings, grass, and/or rubbish, shall be introduced into any water bodies
and/or the MS4. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-23: LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION, LAWN IRRIGATION, AND OTHER IRRIGATION:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to reduce the pollutants
such as sediments, chlorine, pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers in the
water runoff discharges from runoff or return flow from landscape irrigation,
lawn irrigation, and other irrigation, including agricultural irrigation.
   B.   Prohibitions: No person shall:
      1.   Discharge any excessive water runoff from discharges resulting from
normal landscape irrigation, lawn irrigation, and other irrigation; or
      2.   Discharge any water runoff from discharges resulting from
inefficient practices, from faulty equipment, from improperly placed equipment,
from use of equipment in violation of local, state and/or federal regulations,
from unpermitted irrigation systems, where applicable, from leaking equipment,
from leaking conveyance systems, or from other leaking appurtenances.
   C.   Implications: This section implies that excessive water runoff
discharges from runoff or return flow from landscape irrigation, lawn
irrigation, and other irrigation, including agricultural irrigation may not
enter any water body and/or the MS4. Landscape irrigation, lawn irrigation and
other irrigation, including agricultural irrigation, must be conducted in
accordance with approved best management practices set forth by the stormwater
manager or designee. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-24: ACCEPTABLE WATERS:
The following nonstormwater sources, according to 40 CFR 122.26 and/or the
city's MS4 permit, may be discharged from the small MS4 are not required to be
addressed in the small MS4's illicit discharge and detection or other minimum
control measures, unless they are determined by the city or the TCEQ to be
significant contributors of pollutants to the small MS4:
   A.   Water line flushing (excluding discharges of hyperchlorinated water,
unless the water is first dechlorinated and discharges are not expected to
adversely affect aquatic life);
   B.   Runoff or return flow from landscape irrigation, lawn irrigation, and
other irrigation utilizing potable water, groundwater, or surface water sources
(excessive runoff can be deemed to be significant contributors of pollutants to
the small MS4);
   C.   Discharges from potable water sources (excessive runoff can be deemed
to be significant contributors of pollutants to the small MS4);
   D.   Diverted stream flows;
   E.   Rising groundwaters and springs;
   F.   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   G.   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
   H.   Foundation and footing drains;
   I.   Water from crawl space pumps;
   J.   Individual residential vehicle washing (excessive runoff can be deemed
to be a significant contributor of pollutants to the small MS4);
   K.   Flows from wetlands and riparian habitats;
   L.   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
   M.   Street wash water (excessive runoff can be deemed to be a significant
contributor of pollutants to the small MS4);
   N.   Discharges or flows from firefighting activities (firefighting
activities do not include washing of trucks, runoff water from training
activities, test water from fire suppression systems, and similar activities);
   O.   Other allowable nonstormwater discharges listed in 40 CFR 122.26(d)(2)
(iv)(B)(1) (excessive runoff can be deemed to be a significant contributor of
pollutants to the small MS4);
   P.   Nonstormwater discharges that are specifically listed in the TPDES MS4
permit or a site specific TPDES construction general permit (CGP); and
   Q.   Other similar occasional incidental nonstormwater discharges, unless
the TCEQ develops permits or regulations addressing these discharges. (Ord. 05-
06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-25: RELEASE REPORTING AND CLEANUP:
   A.   The person in charge of any facility, vehicle, or other source of any
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, escaping,
leaching, dumping, disposing, or any other release of any of the following
quantities of any of the following substances that may flow, leach, enter, or
otherwise introduced into the MS4 and/or water of the state and/or United
States, shall immediately contact the stormwater manager or designee or the
police department or the fire department concerning the incident:
      1.   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
hazardous substance, as established under 40 CFR part 302;
      2.   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
extremely hazardous substance, as established under 40 CFR part 355;
      3.   An amount of oil that either:
         a.   Violates applicable water quality standards, or
         b.   Causes a film or sheen upon or discoloration of the surface of
the water or an adjoining shoreline or causes a sludge or emulsion to be
deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon an adjoining shoreline; or
      4.   Any harmful quantity of any pollutant.
   B.   The immediate notification required by subsection A of this section
shall include the following information:
      1.   The identity or chemical name of the substance release, and whether
the substance is an extremely hazardous substance;
      2.   The exact location of the release, including any known name of the
waters involved or threatened and any other environmental media affected;
      3.   The time and duration (thus far) of the release;
      4.   An estimate of the quantity and concentration (if known) of the
substance released;
      5.   The source of the release;
      6.   Any known or anticipated health risks associated with the release
and, where appropriate, advice regarding medical attention that may be
necessary for exposed individuals;
      7.   Any precautions that should be taken as a result of the release;
      8.   Any steps that have been taken to contain and/or clean up the
released material and minimize its impacts; and
      9.   The names and telephone numbers of the person or persons to be
contacted for further information.
   C.   Within ten (10) days following such release, the responsible person in
charge of the facility, vehicle, or other sources of the release shall submit,
unless waived by both the stormwater manager and fire department, a written
report containing each of the items of information specified in the
aforementioned as well as the following additional information:
      1.   The ultimate duration, concentrations and quantity of the release;
      2.   All actions taken to respond to, contain, and clean up the released
substances, and all precautions taken to minimize the impacts;
      3.   Any known or anticipated acute or chronic health risks associated
with the release;
      4.   The identity of any governmental/private sector representatives
responding to the release; and
      5.   The measures taken or to be taken by the responsible person(s) to
prevent similar future occurrences.
The notifications required by subsections B and C of this section shall not
relieve the responsible person of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability
which may be incurred as a result of the release, including any liability for
damage to the city, to natural resources, or to any other person or property;
nor shall such notification relieve the responsible person to any fine,
penalty, or other liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter,
state or federal law.
   D.   Any person responsible for any release as described in subsection A of
this section shall comply with all state, federal, and any other local law
requiring reporting, cleanup, containment, and any other appropriate remedial
action in response to the release.
   E.   Any person responsible for a release described in subsection A of this
section shall reimburse the city for any cost incurred by the city in
responding to the release. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-26: RIGHT OF ENTRY, INSPECTION AND SAMPLING:
The city's stormwater manager or its designees shall have the right to enter
the premises of any person discharging stormwater to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) and/or to waters to the state and/or United States to
determine if the discharger is complying with all requirements of this chapter,
and with any state or federal discharge permit, limitation, or requirement.
Dischargers shall allow the city's stormwater manager or its designee ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
records examination, photo recording and copying, and for the performance of
any additional duties. Dischargers shall make available to the city's
stormwater manager or its designees, upon request, any pollution control
measures or modifications thereto, self-inspection reports, monitoring records,
compliance evaluations, notices of intent, and any other records, reports or
documents related to compliance with this chapter and with any state or federal
discharge permit.
   A.   Where a discharger has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the discharger
shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon
presentation of suitable identification, the city's stormwater manager or its
designees will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of
performing responsibilities.
   B.   The city's stormwater manager or its designees shall have the right to
set up on the discharger's property, or require installation of, such devices
as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the discharger's
operations.
   C.   The city's stormwater manager or its designees may require, at his/her
reasonable discretion, the discharger to conduct specified sampling, testing,
analysis, and other monitoring of its stormwater discharges, and may specify
the frequency and parameters of any such required monitoring.
   D.   The city's stormwater manager or its designees may require, at his/her
reasonable discretion, the discharger to install monitoring equipment as
necessary at the discharger's expense. The facility's sampling and monitoring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition by the discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure
stormwater flow, wastewater and quality shall be calibrated to ensure their
accuracy.
   E.   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to the
facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
discharger at all the written or verbal requests of the city and shall not be
replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the discharger.
   F.   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city's stormwater manager or its
designees access to their discharger's premises shall be a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
8-7-27: VIOLATIONS AND NONCOMPLIANCE:
A penalty is hereby established whereby any person who shall violate any
provision of this chapter shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall upon conviction be fined a minimum amount of not less than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per violation and a maximum amount of not less than two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00) per violation. Each day of violation and each
violation of a particular section of this chapter shall constitute a separable
offense for purposes of the city's enforcement of this chapter. A culpable
mental state is not required to prove an offense under this chapter.
Upon the written certification by the city of the violation of any section of
this chapter, the city attorney is authorized to petition any court of
competent jurisdiction for any injunction to enjoin the continuance of such
violation. This remedy shall be cumulative of and to all other enforcement
powers granted to the city by the terms of its charter or any ordinance, or by
the laws of the state or the United States.
No provision of this chapter is intended, nor shall any part or portion hereof
be construed so as to conflict with the Texas Water Code, state regulations, or
federal regulations.
If any provision of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance shall be held to be invalid, the remainder of this chapter and the
application of such provision to other persons and circumstances shall
nevertheless be valid, and the board of commissioners hereby declares that this
chapter would have been enacted out such invalid provision.
If compliance is not achieved to the city's satisfaction, the city may at its
discretion, report the noncompliance to the USEPA, the TCEQ, the USGS, the U.S.
wildlife and fisheries, the U.S. army corps of engineers, or any other state or
federal agency for further action.
If the city's stormwater manager or its designees determine that activities are
being carried out in violation of this chapter, a notification of noncompliance
shall be issued. In addition to the notification, if the violation continues
beyond five (5) days, a "noncompliance flag" will be posted at the site.
Finally, if the violation continues after five (5) days after the
"noncompliance flag" is posted, the city may stop all work until corrective
measures have been completed. The site shall be posted with a "stop work"
notice. No other permits may be issued by the city until corrections have made
to the satisfaction of the city. It is also against this chapter either to move
or interfere with "noncompliance flag" and/or stop work orders, and shall be
considered as additional violation(s) of this chapter.
Any person found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
requited to correct the problem upon written notification from the city. Such
written notification may require that certain conditions be adhered to in the
correction of the problem. These may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
   A.   Use of specific pollution prevention measures and techniques;
   B.   Use of pretreatment procedures pollution prevention plans;
   C.   Modification of existing plan;
   D.   Completion of work within a specified time period; and
   E.   Submission of pollution prevention plan or any other of its type.
Any person denied discharge to MS4 shall have the right to appeal such to the
city manager within ten (10) days of the date of such denial. (Ord. 05-06-12,
6-5-2012)
8-7-28: CITIZEN PARTICIPATION:
All citizens are encouraged to report to the city's stormwater manager at 956-
784-8140 any spills, releases, illicit connections, or any other instances of
anyone discharging pollutants into MS4 storm sewer system or waters of the
state or waters of the United States and any other violation of this chapter
which they become aware of. (Ord. 05-06-12, 6-5-2012)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES 1
SECTION:
9-1-1: Codes Adopted By Reference
9-1-1-1: Building Code
9-1-1-2: Residential Code
9-1-1-3: Fire Code
9-1-1-4: Mechanical Code
9-1-1-5: Plumbing Code
9-1-1-6: Fuel Gas Code
9-1-1-7: Energy Conservation Code
9-1-1-8: Electrical Code
9-1-1-9: Property Maintenance Code
9-1-2: Enforcing Officers
9-1-3: Building Code Permit Fees
9-1-4: City Services/Building Permits
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 4-5-2H of this code for noise control regulations.
9-1-1: CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
A copy of the referenced codes shall be filed with the city.
(Ord. 04-02-02, 2-19-2002)
9-1-1-1: BUILDING CODE:
   A.   The International Building Code 2021 edition is hereby adopted for the
purposes expressed in said Code, with consideration given to any amendments
specified in (B) below.
      1.   In order to establish a safer work environment for a contractor’s
work force, authorized city personnel, and permitted others; as well as to
reduce the incidence of scattered litter at the construction site and adjoining
properties, the City of Alamo hereby mandates that a properly sized debris
container or containment area will be provided as part of new construction
project for new structures. In regard to remodeling and/or demolition project
sites, the Building Official is hereby authorized to discern on whether a
debris container or debris containment area shall be required, dependent on the
expected quantity and volume of building fragments and remnants from such
project sites; the over-riding consideration by the Building Official will be
to require such containers if it will result in a safer and healthier
construction work environment and thus, minimize hazardous/littering risks. It
is further declared that should a professional containment bin be desired by
the contractor and/or owner of the project site, that such container shall be
privately contracted with the City of Alamo’s solid waste provider. The
Building Official is hereby authorized to generally provide a 24-hour notice to
the contractor to provide the required debris container or containment area or
else the City will impose a ‘Stop Work’ on the project until said containment
measures are complied with. Violations to the terms and intent of these debris
containment regulations shall be pursuant to Title 1 ‘Administration’, Chapter
4 ‘General Penalty’ provisions; and shall be enforced by the coordinated
efforts between the Building Official and the City of Alamo’s Code Enforcement
Officer.
      2.   In order to assure that structures comply with prevailing building
setbacks, the (assigned) City Building Inspector or the Planning Director shall
have the discretionary right to require that a pre-pour survey be completed
before the concrete foundation is performed/poured so as to assure that the
required building setbacks are all complied with. Should the owner/builder
desire to appeal the ruling to require the pre-pour survey, then, upon payment
of a ‘$50 appeal Fee’, the City Manager’s office shall then assess the
circumstances and make the final determination to mandate it or not.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: city of Alamo
   Section 1612.3. Insert: city of Alam
   Section 1612.3. Insert: 09-25-1979
   Section 3412.2. Insert: 02-07-2012
(Ord. 06-07-12, 7-3-2012; amd. Ord. 55-08-22, 8-16-2022; Ord. 64-11-23, 11-6-
2023; Ord. 131-9-2024, 9-17-2024)
9-1-1-2: RESIDENTIAL CODE:
   A.   The International Residential Code 2024 edition is hereby adopted for
the purposes expressed in said Code with consideration given to any amendments
specified in (B) below.
      1.   In order to establish a safer work environment for a contractor’s
work force, authorized city personnel, and permitted others; as well as to
reduce the incidence of scattered litter at the construction site and adjoining
properties, the City of Alamo hereby mandates that a properly sized debris
container or containment area will be provided as part of new construction
project for new structures. In regard to remodeling and/or demolition project
sites, the Building Official is hereby authorized to discern on whether a
debris container or debris containment area shall be required, dependent on the
expected quantity and volume of building fragments and remnants from such
project sites; the over-riding consideration by the Building Official will be
to require such containers if it will result in a safer and healthier
construction work environment and thus, minimize hazardous/littering risks. It
is further declared that should a professional containment bin be desired by
the contractor and/or owner of the project site, that such container shall be
privately contracted with the City of Alamo’s solid waste provider. The
Building Official is hereby authorized to generally provide a 24-hour notice to
the contractor to provide the required debris container or containment area or
else the City will impose a ‘Stop Work’ on the project until said containment
measures are complied with. Violations to the terms and intent of these debris
containment regulations shall be pursuant to Title 1 ‘Administration’, Chapter
4 ‘General Penalty’ provisions; and shall be enforced by the coordinated
efforts between the Building Official and the City of Alamo’s Code Enforcement
Officer.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section AE503.1 ‘Skirting and permanent perimeter enclosures’; the City of
Alamo hereby requires that professional type skirting be equipped onto mobile
homes, and other similar modular structures, whereby at least one utility
access panel will be provided for. Such skirting effect shall also be required
for any (wood frame) single-family dwelling that will be placed on the property
using a pad/pier stabilization method or any other similar type of elevated
effect as the pad/pier method. The owner, tenant, occupant, or assigned other
shall also be responsible for the perpetual maintenance of such skirting that
would include replacement of skirting panels, as incidentally needed. This
skirting requirement shall remain though using subsequent updated editions of
the 2012 International Residential Code.
   Section R101.1. Insert: city of Alamo
   Table R301.2(1). Insert: refer to table for information
   Section P2603.5.1. Insert: twelve (12") inches, twelve (12") inches
(Ord. 17-09-12, 9-18-2012; amd. Ord. 55-08-22, 8-16-2022; Ord. 64-09-22, 9-6-
2022; Ord. 64-11-23, 11-6-2023; Ord. 105-6-24, 6-4-2024)
9-1-1-3: FIRE CODE:
   A.   The International Fire Code 2018 edition is hereby adopted for the
purposes expressed in said Code with consideration given to any amendments
specified in (B) below.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: city of Alamo
   Section 109.4. Insert: class C misdemeanor, $2,000.00, as allowed by state
statute.
   Section 111.4. Insert: $500.00, $2,000.00
(Ord. 10-03-13, 3-5-2013; amd. Ord. 55-08-22, 8-16-2022)
9-1-1-4: MECHANICAL CODE:
   A.   The International Mechanical Code 2021 edition is hereby adopted for
the purposes expressed in said Code with consideration given to any amendments
specified in (B) below. (Ord. 09-04-06, 4-4-2006; amd. Ord. 55-08-22, 8-16-
2022)
9-1-1-5: PLUMBING CODE:
   A.   The International Plumbing Code 2021 edition is hereby adopted for the
purposes expressed in said Code with consideration given to any amendments
specified in (B) below.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: city of Alamo
   Section 106.6.2. Insert: refer to city code
   Section 106.6.3. Insert: no more than 100%, no more than 100%
   Section 108.4. Insert: class C misdemeanor, $2,000.00, as allowed by state
statute.
   Section 108.5. Insert: $500.00, $2,000.00
   Section 305.4.1. Insert: twelve (12") inches
   Section 903.1. Insert: twelve (12") inches
(Ord. 11-03-13, 3-5-2013; amd. Ord. 55-08-22, 8-16-2022)
9-1-1-6: FUEL GAS CODE:
   A.   The International Fuel Gas Code 2018 edition is hereby adopted for the
purposes expressed in said Code with consideration given to any amendments
specified in (B) below.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: city of Alamo
   Section 106.6.2. Insert: refer to city code
   Section 106.6.3. Insert: not more than 100%, not more than 100%
   Section 108.4. Insert: class C misdemeanor, $2,000.00, as allowed by state
statute.
   Section 108.5. Insert: $500.00, $2,000.003
(Ord. 09-03-13, 3-5-2013; amd. Ord. 55-08-22, 8-16-2022)
9-1-1-7: ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE:
   A.   The International Energy Conservation Code 2021 edition is hereby
adopted for the purposes expressed in said Code with consideration given to any
amendments specified in (B) below.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections of the International Energy
Conservation Code, 2015 edition, are hereby revised:
   Section C101.1. Insert: City of Alamo
   Section C108.4. Insert: $500.00, $2,000.00
   Section R108.4. Insert: $500.00, $2,000.00
(Ord. 14-08-16, 8-16-2016; amd. Ord. 55-08-22, 8-16-2022)
9-1-1-8: ELECTRICAL CODE:
   A.   Adoption: The 2020 edition of the National Electrical Code is hereby
adopted by reference.
   B.   Electric Vehicle Supply Equipment (EVSE) charging stations includes the
assigned paved space(s) where (re)charging port(s) are specifically designed
and built to supply EVs with electrical KW power at variable tenures for
augmenting, supplementing, or boosting EVs with an increased electrical charge-
up; such an EVSE station, unless exempted by the regulatory provisions of SB
1001 (Section 1, Subtitle A, title 14, Occupations Code, Chapter 2311), will
comply with the following criteria:
      1.   Electrical permit(s) shall be required prior to the installation of
any EVSE ports where the fee imposed shall be pursuant to Section 9-1-3 (F) of
Alamo’s Code of Ordinances. Master Electricians shall perform the work involved
to safely install and activate the port’s charging equipment; and this Code
alerts the provider that, when applicable, each commercial EVSE charging
station is required to be registered with the Texas Commission of Licensing and
Regulation pursuant to Section 2311.0204 of the statute cited in ‘B’ above.
      2.   The EVSE’s specifications shall reflect the KW capacity per port and
overall power generated by the model when all stations are activated.
Furthermore, the fees, surcharges (if any) shall also be disclosed on the EVSE
or the provider’s webpage in compliance to Section 2311.0304 of the
aforementioned statute.
      3.   Unless installed with an electrical disconnect or with any evolving
technology that has the same safety disconnect effect, the EVSE shall be
equipped with an independent T-pole which may necessitate a separate meter for
a given amount of EV ports pursuant to the design of KW generated for the
series of installed ports.
      4.   The EVSE’s ports shall be on a paved parking space or paved driveway
to be used by the owner(s) and/or their authorized guest(s).
      5.   The EVSE ports shall be approved by the Fire Marshal’s Office in
specific regard to the port’s distance to area building structures, gasoline
pumps, and other (potentially explosive) fire-risk criteria. Also, in
compliance with the specific intent of Section 2311.0306 of the above-noted
statute, the EVSE shall be repaired and maintained in a viable and safe manner.
Any EVSE that is deemed to pose a safety risk shall be impeded/locked from
being accessible by the general public; it is expected that the EVSE owner/
operator shall then alert the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation of
its inactive status and the reason for it being disabled. Furthermore, such a
dormant EVSE shall not be re-activated for further use until the EVSE has been
repaired in compliance to the manufacture’s specifications and any other local
and state mandates. Electrical permits may be required prior to the reparatory
measures, dependent on the involved work to be completed.
      6.   The EVSE station shall be located in a manner to not impede the
traffic flow of the paved parking lot’s designed traffic circulation pattern.
      7.   It shall be the private property owner’s responsibility to resolve
any trespassing issues wherein complimentary or residentially private EVSE’s
ports are located.
      8.   If signage is displayed alerting passersby that an EVSE station is
present at any given premises, such accessory sign shall be limited to one per
street side and be no larger than 24" x 24" where the bottom of said sign shall
be no higher than 8" from the paved/ground surface. If the sign is affixed to a
building or solid buffer, there is no height restriction. There shall be no
EVSE signage on private residential premises regardless of its zoning district.
      9.   Any EVSE station shall comply with all regulations from the adopted
version of the IBC, NEC, the National Institute of Standards and Technology,
and/or other relevant code that pertain to EVSE charging ports. Should the
above provisions conflict with any ‘updated’ EVSE regulations in subsequent
versions of such applicable codes, the most restrictive shall govern.
      10.   NOTE: an EVSE charging port may be evident on private residential
premises subject to all provisions above except for subsections 3, 5, 6, and 8.
(Ord. 02-02-19, 2-19-2019; amd. Ord. 55-08-22, 8-16-2022; Ord. 65-11-2023, 6-
11-2023)
9-1-1-9: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
   1.   In order to establish a safer work environment for a contractor’s work
force, authorized city personnel, and permitted others; as well as to reduce
the incidence of scattered litter at the construction site and adjoining
properties, the City of Alamo hereby mandates that a properly sized debris
container or containment area will be provided as part of new construction
project for new structures. In regard to remodeling and/or demolition project
sites, the Building Official is hereby authorized to discern on whether a
debris container or debris containment area shall be required, dependent on the
expected quantity and volume of building fragments and remnants from such
project sites; the over-riding consideration by the Building Official will be
to require such containers if it will result in a safer and healthier
construction work environment and thus, minimize hazardous/littering risks. It
is further declared that should a professional containment bin be desired by
the contractor and/or owner of the project site, that such container shall be
privately contracted with the City of Alamo’s solid waste provider. The
Building Official is hereby authorized to generally provide a 24-hour notice to
the contractor to provide the required debris container or containment area or
else the City will impose a ‘Stop Work’ on the project until said containment
measures are complied with. Violations to the terms and intent of these debris
containment regulations shall be pursuant to Title 1 ‘Administration’, Chapter
4 ‘General Penalty’ provisions; and shall be enforced by the coordinated
efforts between the Building Official and the City of Alamo’s Code Enforcement
Officer.
   B.   Amendments: The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1. Insert: city of Alamo, Texas
   Section 103.5. Insert: omit
   Section 112.4. Insert: $500.00 or $2,000.00
   Section 302.4. Insert: fifteen inches (15")
   Section 304.14. Insert: January to December
   Section 602.3. Insert: October to April
   Section 602.4. Insert: October to April
(Ord. 07-07-12, 7-3-2012; amd. Ord. 55-08-22, 8-16-2022; Ord. 64-11-23, 11-6-
2023)
9-1-2: ENFORCING OFFICERS:
Within said codes, when reference is made to the duties of certain officials
named therein, that designated official of the city who has duties
corresponding to those of the named official in the code shall be deemed the
responsible official insofar as enforcing the provisions of the code are
concerned. (Ord. 88-06, 8-16-1988)
9-1-3: BUILDING CODE PERMIT FEES:
   A.   Building Fees: Formula for new residential construction is: Total
valuation times rate per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), plus inspection fee.
      1.    Building Permit Fees for Residential construction (new) -
      Single Family Residential Permits & Duplex - Fourplex Residential Permits
shall be calculated as follows:
         a. Total Square Feet X $0.32 +
         b. Inspection fee + Curb Cut + Res-Check = Total Permit Fee
      2. Building Permit Fees for Residential Additions -
      Single Family Residential & Duplex - Fourplex Residential Addition
Permits shall be calculated as follows:
         a. Total Square Feet X $0.32 +
         b. Inspection fee = Total Permit Fee
      3. Building Permit Fees for Residential Remodeling -
      Single Family Residential & Duplex - Fourplex Remodeling Permits shall be
calculated as follows:
         a. Total Square Feet X $0.10 +
         b. $30 Permit Fee + Inspection Fee = Total Permit Fee.
      4. Building Permit Fees for Non-Residential & Multi-Family Apartments (=5
Apartments) shall be calculated as follows:
         Valuation Cost/Sq. Ft. :    Commercial Office/Retail . . . . . . . . .
$90.00/Sq. Ft.
                     Warehouses & Open Canopies . . . . . $60.00/Sq. Ft.
                     Multi-Family (Living) . . . . . . . . . . . . $70.00/Sq.
Ft.
 
TOTAL VALUATION                  FEE CALCULATION
                                 No fee, unless inspection required, in which
$999.00 and less                 case a $15.00 fee for each inspection shall be
                                 charged, re-inspections included
                                 $15.00 for the first $1,000.00 plus $5.00 for
$1,000 to $50,000.00             each additional thousand or fraction thereof,
                                 to and including $50,000.00
                                 $260.00 for the first $50,000.00 plus $4.00
$50,000.01 to $100,000.00        for each additional thousand or fraction
                                 thereof to and including $100,000.00
                                 $460.00 for the first $100,000.00 plus $3.00
$100,000.01 to $500,000.00       for each additional thousand or fraction
                                 thereof to and including $500,000.00
                                 $1,660.00 for the first $500,000.00 plus $2.00
$500,000.01 and up               for each additional thousand or fraction
                                 thereof
Plan Review Fee (nonresidential) 25% of the calculated permit fee
      5. Miscellaneous Fees:
         Storage Room Permit Fee - $55.00
         Sign Permit Fee - $45.00 or based on the Value of the sign, whichever
is greater
         Pool (Residential Use) Permit Fee - $75.00
         Fence Permit Fee - $55.00
         Solar Panels - $150.00
         Telecommunication Upgrades - $150.00
         Miscellaneous Residential Remodeling (Windows, Siding, Re-Roofs, and
the like) - $55.00
   B.   Moving Permit:
      1. The fee for a moving permit shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00),
plus a twenty five dollar ($25.00) facility inspection fee provided, however,
for any structural inspection which shall be required before a building or
structure is moved into the city of Alamo from a location outside the corporate
limits, a permit fee of fifty dollars ($50.00 + $0.50/mile outside city limits)
shall be charged for such inspection.
      2. For new or used wood frame homes and mobile homes.
         a. A building code compliance report must be submitted to Inspections
Division prior to moving in a new house. The inspections for the house must
have been made by the jurisdiction having authority where the house was built
or by a certified building inspector.
         b. The house must comply with the City’s adopted International
Residential Code and must be a minimum of 800 square feet living area.
         c. A facility inspection shall be paid by the seller or buyer before
the moving permit in order for the inspector to conduct a visual inspection of
the house to ensure compliance with the City’s minimum building codes prior to
it being moved.
         d. After approval of the home, the house mover, seller or buyer must
submit a site plan showing the proposed house setbacks, carport or garage, and
the location of the driveway.
         e. Either the house mover, the seller, or the buyer may obtain the
moving permit.
         f. The seller or buyer cannot occupy the home until compliance with
the City’s minimum codes, landscaping requirements, and sidewalks have been met
and a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the City.
      3. Any person or company moving a home or similar structure within the
city limits should secure a good and sufficient bond in the sum of two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00) to be approved by the building official of the city, and
conditioned upon compliance with all building regulations and related
ordinances of the city of Alamo and the laws of the state of Texas and the
United States. Further, such bond shall be conditioned upon payment of any and
all damages to any city property as a result of such movement; provided,
however, should such damages exceed such bond, then the person responsible
therefor shall not invalidate or impair the validity, force or effect of any
other section, part of any section, paragraph or clause of this subsection.
   C.   Demolition: The fee for the demolition of any building(s) or structure
(s) shall be the following:
 
0 to 1,000 sq. ft.                               $100.00 plus inspection fee
Plus for every additional 500 sq. ft. over 1,000 20.00   plus inspection fee
sq. ft.
 
   D.   Inspection Fees:
      1.   There shall be an inspection fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
      2.   There shall be a reinspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
trade being re(inspected) for compliance.
   E.   Plumbing Fees:
Issuance of permit                                                  $ 15.00
Reinspection                                                        50.00
For each plumbing fixture and floor drain                           5.00
For each house sewer                                                25.00
Sewer tap or connection (residential)                               50.00
Sewer tap (commercial)                                              100.00
Sewer tap (industrial)                                              300.00
Sewer tap (multi-family, apartment)                                 200.00
For each septic tank                                                25.00
For each water heater                                               5.00
For each vent                                                       5.00
For each grease trap                                                10.00
For each trap                                                       5.00
For installation, alteration or repair of water piping              10.00
For repair or alteration of drainage or vent piping                 5.00
For installation of vacuum breakers or backflow protective devices  3.00
(each)
Gas piping (all types)                                              25.00
Gas test inspection                                                 25.00
For installation, alteration or repair of a water softener device   10.00
 
   F.   Electrical Fees:
Issuance of permit                         $ 15.00
Reinspection                               50.00
Meter loops                                 
 Service up to 400 amps                   10.00
 Service between 401 and 1,000 amps       15.00
 Service between 1,001 and 2,000 amps     20.00
 Service over 2,000 amps                  25.00
Working clearance                          25.00
Temporary pole                             20.00
New service                                15.00
Service change/upgrade                     20.00
Circuit breaker (each)                     1.50
Exhaust (each)                             2.00
All motors (each)                          2.50
Signs or decorative lights (each)          2.50
220 volt fixtures (each)                   2.50
Carnivals, circus, fairs and similar        
events:
 1 - 6 fused disconnect switch or circuit 200.00
  breaker as required by NEC
 Plus for each additional disconnect      25.00
  switch or circuit breaker
EVSE charging station                      $25/port (inclusive of private
                                           residential premises)
 
   G.   Mowing Lots: There shall be a charge of seventy five dollars ($75.00)
per hour for mowing lots.
   H.   Mechanical Fees:
Issuance of permit                                                     $ 15.00
Reinspection                                                           50.00
All heating, ventilation, ductwork, air conditioning and refrigeration  
systems:
 On a per 1 ton basis for the first 4 tons (each)                     6.00
 For each ton between 4 and 10 tons                                   3.00
 For each ton above 10 tons or fraction thereof                       1.50
All boilers (based on Btu input):                                       
 33,000 Btu (1 BHp) to 165,000 Btu (5 BHp)                            5.00
 165,001 Btu (5 BHp) to 330,000 Btu (10 BHp)                          10.00
 330,001 Btu (10 BHp) to 1,165,000 Btu (52 BHp)                       15.00
 1,165,001 Btu (52 BHp) to 3,300,000 Btu (98 BHp)                     20.00
 Over 3,300,001 Btu                                                   25.00
 
(Ord. 06-03-03, 3-4-2003)
   I.   RES-Check Compliance Report Fees:
 
For review of RES-check compliance report (residential only) 20.00
For review of RES-check compliance report (nonresidential)   50.00
 
   J.   Driveway Or Curb Cut Fees:
 
Driveway or curb cut per entrance or exit to property 30.00
 
   K.   Underground Storage Tank Removal: Fees for the removal of underground
storage tanks:
 
For the first tank   $100.00
Each additional tank 75.00
 
   L.   Administrative Fees:
 
                              Fee shall be charged based on the total permit
Permit renewal (any)          cost minus the percent structure is completed as
                              assessed by the City Inspector.
Reprint of any lost permit(s) $ 30.00
Building facility inspection  25.00
Lien processing (all)         85.00
 
   M.   Certificate Of Occupancy Fee: Certificate of occupancy permit (excludes
single-family):
 
0 - 1,999 sq. ft.     $ 75.00
2,000 - 4,999 sq. ft. 150.00
5,000 - 7,999 sq. ft. 250.00
Over 8,000 sq. ft.    400.00
 
   N.   Contractor Fee: Due to State legislation as it relates to Texas’
Occupation Code’s references to prohibit or inhibit registration fees to
plumbers, AC contractors, and master electricians, the City of Alamo will not
levy registration fees to such identified occupations; however, should future
legislation be adopted to once again allow for such registration fees, the City
of Alamo reserves its right for such re-consideration.
   O.   Bldg. Permit Request Prior to Plat Recordation $250.00
   P.   Doubling of fee: In case any work, including moving structures, for
which a permit is required by this chapter is started or proceeded with prior
to obtaining such permit, the fee for such permit shall be doubled. The payment
of such doubled fee shall not relieve any person from fully complying with the
requirements of this section in the execution of the work nor from other
penalties prescribed in this section.
   Q.   Asbestos survey required:
      1. Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
 
                      An inspection of a building or facility to determine the
ASBESTOS SURVEY:      location, quantity, and condition of asbestos-containing
                      material therein by taking samples for analysis or by
                      visual inspection.
COMMERCIAL BUILDING:  All other buildings which are not defined in this section
                      as residential buildings.
DEMOLITION:           Operations in which load-bearing structural members of a
                      building are wrecked or removed.
                      Any individual, partnership, company, association, trust,
PERSON:               foundation, governmental subdivision or agency, or any
                      other entity recognized by law as the subject or rights
                      and duties whether operated for profit or not for profit.
                      Additions to or alterations of the interior and exterior
RENOVATION:           surfaces of a building for purposes of restoration by
                      removal, repairing and rebuilding.
                      A single-family structure, or a multifamily structure of
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING: four dwelling units or less, primarily used or capable of
                      being used for human habitation.
 
      2. Prerequisite. Prior to the issuance of a permit for the renovation or
demolition of any commercial building within the city limits, an asbestos
survey shall be conducted of the areas to be renovated or demolished, unless
otherwise approved by the City Inspector.
      3. Exceptions. An asbestos survey shall not be required prior to the
issuance of a permit for the renovation or demolition of a residential building
unless the renovation or demolition involves more than two contiguous
residential building sites which are part of a commercial or public project
such as an urban renewal project, a highway construction project, a project to
develop a shopping center or mall, the construction of an industrial facility
or other large private development.
      4. Licensed inspector. Any asbestos survey required in this section shall
be conducted by an individual licensed by the state to do an asbestos survey.
The cost of the asbestos survey under subsections (b) and (c) of this section
shall be at no expense to city.
(Ord. 37-12-01, 12-4-2001; amd. Ord. 06-03-03, 3-4-2003; amd. Ord. 29-09-13, 9-
24-2013; amd. Ord. 12-08-19, 8-20-2019; amd. Ord. 24-12-19, 12-17-2019; Ord.
55-08-22, 8-16-2022; Ord. 28-04-23, 4-18-2023; Ord. 65-11-2023, 6-11-2023; Ord.
99-5-24, 5-7-2024; Ord. 126-9-24, 9-3-2024)
9-1-4: CITY SERVICES/BUILDING PERMITS:
   A.   City Services/Building Permits Not Provided: The city can determine
whether or not to provide city services and/or building permits to:
      1.   Properties that have been assessed an invoice or lien for weedy lot
abatement;
      2.   Properties that have been assessed a lien due to demolition and
abatement of a substandard structure;
      3.   Properties that owe other fees such as water and trash services; and
      4.   Properties that owe any other liens or arrears encumbered by the
city.
Once all city liens/arrears have been paid in full, the property will be
eligible to receive all city services and building permits. (Ord. 08-04-15, 2-
17-2015)
CHAPTER 2
SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Substandard Buildings Declared Unlawful
9-2-2: Substandard Building Defined
9-2-3: Minimum Building Standards
9-2-4: Preliminary Determination Of Violation
9-2-5: Identification Of Property Owner
9-2-6: Notice Of Violation
9-2-7: Public Hearing
9-2-8: Order To Correct Violation
9-2-9: Additional Time For Compliance
9-2-10: Cash Or Surety Bond
9-2-11: Notice Of Committee Order
9-2-12: Assessment Of Cost And Civil Penalty
9-2-13: Imposition Of Lien For Costs And Civil Penalty
9-2-14: Additional Authority To Secure Substandard Building
9-2-15: Requiring Repair, Removal, Or Demolition Of Building Or Other Structure
9-2-16: Appointment Of Receiver
9-2-17: Seizure And Sale Of Property To Recover Expenses
9-2-18: Property Bid Off To Board
9-2-19: Judicial Review
9-2-1: SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
All substandard buildings existing within the corporate limits of the city of
Alamo, Texas, are hereby declared unlawful. The city may require that any such
building be vacated, secured, repaired, removed, or demolished and that its
occupants, if any, be relocated. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-2: SUBSTANDARD BUILDING DEFINED:
A substandard building is any structure, consisting of two (2) or more walls or
parts thereof which are connected by a roof covering, whether or not the
building has been used for human occupancy or habitation, which is:
   A.   Dilapidated, substandard, or unfit for human habitation and a hazard to
the public health, safety, and welfare, whether occupied or not; or
   B.   Unoccupied by its owners, lessees, or other invitees and is unsecured
from unauthorized entry to the extent that it could be entered or used by
vagrants or other uninvited persons as a place of harborage or could be entered
or used by children, regardless of its structural condition; or
   C.   Boarded up, fenced, or otherwise secured in any manner if:
      1.   The building constitutes a danger to the public even though secured
from entry; or
      2.   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building in the manner described by subsection
B of this section. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-3: MINIMUM BUILDING STANDARDS:
No building may be used or occupied, regardless of the date of construction,
unless it meets the minimum building standards imposed by each of the duly
adopted building codes effective in the city, which are incorporated herein by
reference. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-4: PRELIMINARY DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION:
A preliminary determination of whether a building is substandard under section
9-2-2 of this chapter shall be made by the city chief official who is charged
with the responsibility of enforcing the city's building codes, hereinafter
referred to in this chapter as the chief building official regardless of the
official's actual title. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-5: IDENTIFICATION OF PROPERTY OWNER:
To determine the identity and address of any owner, a lienholder, or a
mortgagee the chief code enforcement official, shall, at a minimum, search the
following records:
   A.   Real property records of the Hidalgo County clerk;
   B.   Appraisal district records of the Hidalgo County appraisal district;
   C.   Records of the secretary of state;
   D.   Assumed name records of Hidalgo County;
   E.   Tax records of the city; and
   F.   Utility records of the city. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
   A.   After a preliminary determination that a building is substandard under
this chapter, the chief code enforcement official, after consultation with the
city manager and the city's attorney, will give written notice that the
building is in violation of this chapter. The notice of violation shall be
given to any person or entity identified as having a legal or equitable
ownership interest of record in the substandard building, including each
mortgagee and lienholder. The notice shall provide:
      1.   An identification, which is not required to be a legal description,
of the building and the property on which it is located;
      2.   A description of the violation of municipal standards that is
present at the building;
      3.   The actions which the person or entity must take to correct the
violation(s) and to relocate occupants;
      4.   A statement that the city will vacate, secure, remove, or demolish
the building or relocate the occupants of the building if the ordered action is
not taken within the time stated in the order; and
      5.   The time, date and place where a public hearing will be held by the
building standards committee to determine whether the building complies with
the standards set out in this chapter.
   B.   A notice of a hearing sent to an owner, lienholder, or mortgagee under
this section shall include a statement that the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee
has the burden of proof at the hearing to demonstrate the scope of any work
that may be required to comply with the ordinance and the time it will take to
reasonably perform the work.
   C.   The notice of violation and hearing shall be delivered in person or
mailed via certified U.S. mail with return receipt requested, or delivered by
U.S. mail using signature confirmation service. A copy of the ordinance shall
accompany the notice. In addition, the chief code enforcement official may file
notice of the hearing in the official public records of real property in the
Hidalgo County clerk's office. Such filed notice must contain the name and
address of the owner of the affected property if that information can be
determined, a legal description of the affected property, and a description of
the hearing. The filing of the notice is binding on subsequent grantees,
lienholders, or other transferees of an interest in the property who acquire
such interest after the filing of the notice, and constitutes notice of the
hearing on any subsequent recipient of any interest in the property who
acquires such interest after the filing of the notice. In addition the chief
code enforcement official may post a sign on the property intended to give
notice to the public and the interest holders of the proposed action and the
notice of hearing.
   D.   When a notice is mailed to a property owner, lienholder, or mortgagee
in accordance with this section and the United States postal service returns
the notice as "refused" or "unclaimed", the validity of the notice is not
affected, and the notice is considered delivered. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-7: PUBLIC HEARING:
   A.   The public hearing required under this chapter shall be held before a
committee referred to as the building standards committee (hereinafter, the
"committee"), unless the city, by resolution, orders that a particular case be
heard by the full board.
   B.   The committee will be a five (5) member board. The members of the
committee will serve staggered terms of two (2) and three (3) years. Each
member of the board will have one appointment.
   C.   At the hearing, the committee will review the notice of violation and
evidence presented by the chief building official and his staff. The committee
shall permit any person who has a legal or equitable interest in the property
to address the violation, corrective measures or demolition. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-
5-2014)
9-2-8: ORDER TO CORRECT VIOLATION:
After the public hearing, if a building is found in violation of standards set
out in this chapter, the committee may order that the building be vacated,
secured, repaired, removed, or demolished by the owner. The committee may also
order that the occupants be relocated within a reasonable time. In conducting a
hearing authorized under this section, the committee shall require the owner,
lienholder, or mortgagee of the building to within thirty (30) days:
   A.   Secure the building from unauthorized entry; or
   B.   Repair, remove, or demolish the building, unless the owner or
lienholder or mortgagee establishes at the hearing that the work cannot
reasonably be performed within thirty (30) days. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-9: ADDITIONAL TIME FOR COMPLIANCE:
   A.   If the committee allows the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee more than
thirty (30) days to repair, remove, or demolish the building, the committee
shall establish specific time schedules for the commencement and performance of
work and shall require the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee to secure the
property in a reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the work is being
performed, as determined by the hearing official.
   B.   The committee may not allow the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee more
than ninety (90) days to repair, remove, or demolish the building or fully
perform all work required to comply with the order unless the owner,
lienholder, or mortgagee:
      1.   Submits a detailed plan and time schedule for the work at the
hearing; and
      2.   Establishes at the hearing that the work cannot be reasonably
completed within ninety (90) days because of the scope and complexity of the
work.
   C.   If the committee allows the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee more than
ninety (90) days to complete any part of the work required to repair, remove,
or demolish the building, the committee shall require the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee to regularly submit progress reports to the committee to demonstrate
compliance with the time schedules established for commencement and performance
of the work. The order may require that the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee
appear before the hearing official or the hearing official's designee to
demonstrate compliance with the time schedules. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-10: CASH OR SURETY BOND:
If the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee, subject to the committee's order, owns
property, including structures or improvements on property, within the
municipal boundaries that exceeds one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) in
total value, the committee may require the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee to
post a cash or surety bond in an amount adequate to cover the cost of
repairing, removing, or demolishing a building under this section. In lieu of a
bond, the committee may require the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee to provide
a letter of credit from a financial institution or a guaranty from a third
party approved by the committee. The bond must be posted, or the letter of
credit or third party guaranty provided, not later than the thirtieth day after
the date the committee issues the order. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-11: NOTICE OF COMMITTEE ORDER:
   A.   Within ten (10) days after the date that the order is issued, the
committee shall:
      1.   File a copy of the order in the office of the municipal secretary or
clerk; and
      2.   Publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the city,
containing:
         a.   The street address or legal description of the property;
         b.   The date of the hearing;
         c.   A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and
         d.   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
   B.   After the hearing, the committee shall promptly mail by certified mail
with return receipt requested, deliver by the United States postal service
using signature confirmation service, or personally deliver a copy of the order
to the owner of the building and to any lienholder or mortgagee of the
building. The committee shall use its best efforts to determine the identity
and address of any owner, lienholder or mortgagee of the building. (Ord. 15-07-
14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-12: ASSESSMENT OF COST AND CIVIL PENALTY:
   A.   If the building is not vacated, secured, repaired, removed, or
demolished, or the occupants are not relocated within the allotted time, the
city may, at its own expense, vacate, secure, remove, or demolish the building
or relocate the occupants. In addition to the authority granted to the
committee by section
9-2-9 of this chapter, after the expiration of the time allotted under section
9-2-8 or
9-2-9 of this chapter for the repair, removal, or demolition of a building, the
committee may:
      1.   Repair the building at the expense of the city and assess the
expenses on the land on which the building stands or to which it is attached;
and
      2.   Assess a civil penalty against the property owner for failure to
repair, remove, or demolish the building.
   B.   The committee may order the repair of a building under this section
only to the extent necessary to bring the building into compliance with the
minimum standards and only if the building is a residential building with ten
(10) or fewer dwelling units. The repairs may not improve the building to the
extent that the building exceeds minimum housing standards.
   C.   Any civil penalty or other assessment imposed under this section
accrues interest at the rate of ten percent (10%) a year from the date of the
assessment until paid in full.
   D.   In any judicial proceeding regarding enforcement of the city's rights
under this section, the prevailing party is entitled to recover attorney fees
from the nonprevailing party.
   E.   The committee, by order, may assess and recover a civil penalty against
a property owner at the time of an administrative hearing on violations of an
ordinance, in an amount not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) a day
for each violation or, if the owner shows that the property is the owner's
lawful homestead, in an amount not to exceed ten dollars ($10.00) a day for
each violation, if the city proves:
      1.   The property owner was notified of the requirements of the ordinance
and the owner's need to comply with the requirements; and
      2.   After notification, the property owner committed an act in violation
of the ordinance or failed to take an action necessary for compliance with the
ordinance.
   F.   An assessment of a civil penalty under subsection E of this section is
final and binding and constitutes prima facie evidence of the penalty in any
suit brought by the city in a court of competent jurisdiction for a final
judgment in accordance with the assessed penalty.
   G.   To enforce a civil penalty under this section, the city secretary must
file with the district clerk of the county in which the committee is located a
certified copy of an order issued under subsection E of this section stating
the amount and duration of the penalty. No other proof is required for a
district court to enter a final judgment on the penalty.
   H.   This section does not limit the ability of the city to collect on a
bond or other financial guaranty that may be required by section
9-2-10 of this chapter. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-13: IMPOSITION OF LIEN FOR COSTS AND CIVIL PENALTY:
   A.   If the city incurs expenses and/or assesses a civil penalty under
section
9-2-12 of this chapter or incurs expenses under section
9-2-14 of this chapter, the city may assess the expenses and civil penalty on
the property on which the building was located.
   B.   The city has a lien against the property, unless it is a homestead as
protected by the Texas constitution. The lien is subordinate only to tax liens
and any previously recorded bona fide mortgage lien attached to the real
property to which the city's lien attaches if the mortgage lien was filed for
record in the office of the Hidalgo County clerk in which the real property is
located before the date the civil penalty is assessed or the repair, removal,
or demolition is begun by the city.
   C.   The lien arises and attaches to the property at the time the notice of
the lien is recorded and indexed in the office of the county clerk in the
county in which the property is located. The notice must be in recordable form,
and contain the name and address of the owner if that information can be
determined with reasonable effort, a legal description of the real property on
which the building was located, the amount of expenses incurred by the
committee, and the balance due.
   D.   A lien acquired for repair expenses may not be foreclosed if the
property on which the repairs were made is occupied as a residential homestead
by a person sixty five (65) years of age or older.
   E.   The lien is extinguished if the property owner or another person having
an interest in the legal title to the property reimburses the committee for the
expenses. The city may not assign its right to an assessment lien to third
parties. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-14: ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO SECURE SUBSTANDARD BUILDING:
   A.   If the city decides to only secure a building, the city may secure the
building if the chief building official determines that the building:
      1.   Violates the minimum standards; and
      2.   Is unoccupied or is occupied only by persons who do not have a right
of possession to the building.
   B.   Before the eleventh day after the date the building is secured; the
committee shall give notice to the owner by:
      1.   Personally serving the owner or persons having a legal or equitable
interest in the property with written notice;
      2.   Depositing the notice in the United States mail addressed to the
owner or persons having a legal or equitable interest in the property at the
owner's post office address; or
      3.   Publishing the notice at least twice within a ten (10) day period in
a newspaper of general circulation in Hidalgo County, located if personal
service cannot be obtained and the owner's post office address is unknown; or
      4.   Posting the notice on or near the front door of the building if
personal service cannot be obtained and the owner's post office address is
unknown.
   C.   The notice must contain:
      1.   An identification, which is not required to be a legal description,
of the building and the property on which it is located;
      2.   A description of the violation of the municipal standards that is
present at the building;
      3.   A statement that the committee will secure or has secured, as the
case may be, the building; and
      4.   An explanation of the owner's entitlement to request a hearing about
any matter relating to the committee's securing of the building.
   D.   The committee shall conduct a hearing at which the owner may testify or
present witnesses or written information about any matter relating to the
city's securing of the building if, within thirty (30) days after the date the
city secures the building, the owner files with the chief building official or
chief code enforcement official a written request for the hearing. The
committee shall conduct the hearing within twenty (20) days after the date the
request is filed.
   E.   The committee has the same authority to assess expenses under this
section as it has to assess expenses under section
9-2-13 of this chapter. A lien is created under this section in the same manner
that a lien is created under section
9-2-13 of this chapter, and is subject to the same conditions as a lien created
under that section. The authority granted by this section is in addition to
that granted by section
9-2-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-15: REQUIRING REPAIR, REMOVAL, OR DEMOLITION OF BUILDING OR OTHER
STRUCTURE:
   A.   If the governing body of the city finds that a building, bulkhead, or
other method of protection, fence, shed, awning, or other structure, or part of
a structure, is likely to endanger persons or property, the governing body may:
      1.   Order the owner of the structure, the owner's agent, or the owner or
occupant of the property on which the structure is located to repair, remove,
or demolish the structure, or the part of the structure, within a specified
time; or
      2.   Repair, remove, or demolish the structure, or the part of the
structure, at the expense of the board, on behalf of the owner of the structure
or the owner of the property on which the structure is located, and assess the
repair, removal, or demolition expenses on the property on which the structure
was located.
   B.   The governing body shall provide by ordinance for:
      1.   The assessment of repair, removal or demolition expenses incurred
under subsection A2 of this section;
      2.   A method of giving notice of the assessment; and
      3.   A method of recovering the expenses.
   C.   The governing body may punish by a fine, confinement in jail, or both a
person who does not comply with an order issued under subsection A1 of this
section. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-16: APPOINTMENT OF RECEIVER:
Under the authority of section 214.003 of the Texas Local Government Code, the
city may bring an action for the appointment of a receiver in district court
against an owner of property that is not in substantial compliance with the
municipal ordinances regarding:
   A.   Fire protection;
   B.   Structural integrity;
   C.   Zoning; or
   D.   Disposal of refuse. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-17: SEIZURE AND SALE OF PROPERTY TO RECOVER EXPENSES:
The city may foreclose a lien on property under this chapter:
   A.   In a proceeding relating to the property brought under subchapter E,
chapter 33, Tax Code; or
   B.   In a judicial proceeding; if:
      1.   A building or other structure on the property has been demolished;
      2.   A lien for the cost of the demolition of the building or other
structure on the property has been created and that cost has not been paid more
than one hundred eighty (180) days after the date the lien was filed; and
      3.   Ad valorem taxes are delinquent on all or part of the property.
(Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-18: PROPERTY BID OFF TO BOARD:
This chapter applies to property that has been bid off to the city under
section 34.01(j), Texas Tax Code. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
9-2-19: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
   A.   Any owner, lienholder, or mortgagee of record of property jointly or
severally aggrieved by an order issued by the committee may file in district
court a verified petition setting forth that the decision is illegal, in whole
or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition must be
filed by an owner, lienholder, or mortgagee within thirty (30) calendar days
after the respective dates a copy of the final decision of the committee is
personally delivered to them, mailed to them by first class mail with certified
return receipt requested, or delivered to them by first class mail signature
confirmation service, or such decision shall become final as to each of them
upon the expiration of each such thirty (30) calendar day period.
   B.   On the filing of the petition, the court may issue a writ of certiorari
directed to the city to review the order of the committee and shall prescribe
in the writ the time within which a return on the writ must be made, which must
be longer than ten (10) days, and served on the city or city's attorney.
   C.   The city may not be required to return the original papers acted on by
the committee, but it is sufficient for the city to return certified or sworn
copies of the papers or of parts of the papers as may be called for by the
writ.
   D.   The return must concisely set forth other facts as may be pertinent and
material to show the grounds of the decision appealed from and shall be
verified.
   E.   The issuance of the writ does not stay proceedings on the decision
appealed from.
   F.   Appeal in the district court shall be limited to a hearing under the
substantial evidence rule. The court may reverse or affirm, in whole or in
part, or may modify the decision brought up for review.
   G.   Costs may not be allowed against the committee or the city.
   H.   If the decision of the committee is affirmed or not substantially
reversed but only modified, the district court shall allow to the city all
attorney fees and other costs and expenses incurred by it and shall enter a
judgment for those items, which may be entered against the property owners,
lienholders, or mortgagees as well as all persons subject to the proceedings
before the committee. (Ord. 15-07-14, 8-5-2014)
CHAPTER 3
FENCES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Permit Required; Fee
9-3-2: Height, Location And Material Regulations
9-3-3: Violation And Penalty
9-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
   A.   Permit Requirements: Prior to beginning construction of any fence,
wall, or similar type structure on private or public or institutionally used
property, the owner or his/her agent thereof shall obtain a building permit
from the City of Alamo and shall provide the City with a sketch or plans
showing the specifications for the fence, wall, or similar type structure,
including the height of the fence, type of construction, and exact location of
the fence. NOTE: Any fence, wall, or similar type structure, may be clipped if
on a corner lot in compliance to the sight obstruction provision of Section
10-3-2 (D), Alamo’s Code of Ordinances.
   B.   Fee: There shall be a fee of fifty-five dollars ($55.00) for the
issuance of each fence permit. (Ord. 619, 2-15-1977; amd. Ord. 38-12-01, 12-4-
2001; Ord. 23-04-23, 4-4-2023)
9-3-2: HEIGHT, LOCATION AND MATERIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Height: Except for the required 10' high fencing mandate to visually
obscure junk yards as cited in Section
3-5-3  (B), no fence, wall, or similar type structure, shall be placed on any
property which shall exceed eight feet (8') in height.
   B.   Material and Location: No erected fence or similar type structure shall
be composed/made of sheet metal on any residentially used property or
residentially intended property.
   C.   Placement on Easements and Rights of Way: No fence, wall, or similar
type structure, shall be placed by a private property owner or his/her agent on
any public right of way without the explicit consent of the Board of
Commissioners and, if permitted, the conditions of such placement shall be
cited in a signed document, whose recording fees shall be borne by the owner/
agent. The review and preparation of such fence processing shall have a non-
refundable fee of thirty-dollars ($30.00). Furthermore, any fence, wall, or
similar type structure that may be built on a part of a duly recorded public
easement may do so with an issued fence (building) permit where the owner/
applicant shall presumably understand that such structure may be subject to
removal by the City of Alamo or any utility company that has a franchise
recognized right to do so. It is declared that the City of Alamo, Texas and its
duly recognized franchise holders shall be held harmless for any damages to
private property that may be inadvertently caused as a result of needful
utility repairs or utility installation(s).  (Ord. 619, 2-15-1977; amd. Ord.
23-04-23, 4-4-2023; Ord. 141-11-24, 11-6-2024)
9-3-3: VIOLATION AND PENALTY:
Any person, agent, representative, and/or builder, who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall individually and/or collectively be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to the
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 619, 2-15-1977; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 23-04-23, 4-4-
2023)
CHAPTER 4
SIGNS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Purpose
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Enforcement Of Chapter; Right Of Entry
9-4-4: Permits; Inspections; Fees Required
9-4-5: Maintenance; Replacement Or Repair
9-4-6: Removal Of Signs By Building Official
9-4-7: Restrictions Generally
9-4-8: Appeals
9-4-9: Penalty For Violation
9-4-10: Sign Classifications
9-4-11: Structural And Design Requirements
9-4-12: Signs Permitted By Zoning Districts
9-4-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   The purpose of this chapter is to permit such signs that will not, by
reason of their size, location, construction, or manner of display, endanger
the public safety of individuals; confuse, mislead, or obstruct the vision
necessary for traffic safety; or otherwise endanger public health, safety, and
morals; and to permit and regulate signs in such a way as to support and
complement the land use objectives set forth in the zoning ordinance.
   B.   This chapter, in conjunction with the prevailing building code and
regulations of the Texas department of transportation, provides the guidelines
and regulations for any and all signs constructed, erected, altered, installed,
relocated or renovated within the corporate limits of the city and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   ABANDONED SIGN: A sign which no longer identifies or advertises a bona fide
business, lessor, service, owner, product or activity, or for which no legal
owner can be found.
   ACCESSORY SIGN: A sign that is incidental to the effective operation of the
enterprise to which it pertains, and is not intended to serve as the primary
identification of the premises and does not attract the attention of passersby
for the purpose of advertising a product or service available to therein.
   ADVERTISING SIGN: A sign which identifies or promotes any product,
commodity, or service.
   AREA OF SIGN FACE: The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the total sign message or display area of a sign, excluding supports
and excluding border and trim, whose total square footage does not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the sign face area; the area of stacked and side by side signs
shall be computed as the total of sign panels making up such a sign; for
multiple faced signs (back to back, triangular, columnar, V-type, etc.) only
one sign face shall be counted in computing the actual sign area.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT: An architect, builder, developer, engineer, sign
contractor or other person empowered to act on behalf of other persons.
   BACK TO BACK SIGN: A structure with two (2) parallel and directly opposite
signs with their faces oriented in opposite directions and spaced not more than
ten feet (10') apart.
   BANNER SIGN: Any temporary sign intended to be hung either with or without
frames, characters, letters, illustrations or ornamentations applied to paper,
plastic, or fabric of any kind. National flags, flags of political
subdivisions, and symbolic flags of any institution shall not be considered
banners for the purpose of this chapter.
   BENCH SIGN: A sign located on any part of the surface of a bench or seat
placed on or adjacent to a public right of way.
   BILLBOARD SIGN: Any flat surface erected on a framework or on any structure,
or attached to posts and used for, or designed to be used for, the display of
bills, posters, or other advertising material, for the purpose of advertising a
business, organization, event, person, place, or thing not located on the same
premises as such advertising material, with one or two (2) parallel and
directly opposite signs with their faces oriented in opposite directions and
spaced not more than ten feet (10') apart.
   BOARD: The Alamo city commission.
   BUILDING FRONTAGE: The linear length of a building facing a public way or
which contains a public entrance.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL: An employee of the city of Alamo, which includes the
building inspector, the code enforcement officer, or any other person empowered
to act on behalf of the city of Alamo.
   CANOPY SIGN: A sign that is hung, affixed, or suspended beneath an awning or
canopy and is intended to identify a business, product or service primarily for
the benefit of pedestrian traffic. A "canopy" is defined as being a structure,
not including a carport, either attached to or detached from any existing
structure, having no side walls, consisting of a roof with support columns or
posts and being constructed of noncombustible materials to be used solely for
the purpose of providing shade and/or for the purpose of providing protection
for gasoline and fuel dispensing equipment. For the sake of this chapter, this
definition shall also include canopies used for the purpose of shade and/or
protection over a public right of way, and further defined as a structure
projecting from, extending beyond, and supported by a building.
   CHANGEABLE ELECTRONIC VARIABLE MESSAGE SIGN (CEVMS) OR CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN:
An electric sign which permits light to be turned on or off intermittently or
which is operated in a way whereby light is turned on or off intermittently,
including any sign as in use, including LED (light emitting diode) or digital
sign, and which varies in intensity or color. A CEVMS sign does not include a
sign located within the right of way that functions as a traffic control device
and that is described and identified in the "Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" (MUTCD) approved by the federal highway administrator as the national
standard.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN: Any temporary nonilluminated sign giving the name of
architects, engineers, builders, contractors, and/or lending institutions
responsible for construction on the site where the sign is placed, together
with other information included thereon.
   DIRECTIONAL/INFORMATION SIGN: An on premises sign giving directions,
instructions or facility information and which may contain the name or logo of
an establishment, not to exceed twenty percent (20%) of the sign face, but no
advertising copy, e.g., parking or exit and entrance signs. A sign containing
the word "parking" at any parking lot where any person is charged any fee or
other monetary consideration for parking shall be considered an advertising
sign, not a directional/informational sign.
   DIRECTORY SIGN: A sign on which the names and location of occupants or the
use of a building is given. This shall include office buildings, church
directories, and shopping malls.
   DISTRICT: A part, zone, or geographic area within the city within which
certain zoning or development regulations apply.
   ELECTRICAL SIGN: Any sign, display, or device containing electrical wiring
or using electrical energy, but does not include signs illuminated by an
exterior light source.
   EXPRESSWAY CORRIDORS: The commercially or industrially zoned areas along or
within six hundred feet (600') north and south of U.S. Expressway 83 from Cesar
Chavez Road to Whalen Road.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION: The area extending beyond the corporate
limits of the city which pertain to the city based on Texas local government
code as it now stands and as it may change from time to time.
   GROUND AND/OR TENANT SIGN: Any sign which is supported by structures or
supports in or upon the ground and independent of support from any building,
for the purpose of directing the attention of the general public to a lawful
use of the premises on which it is located.
   GUTTER FLOW LINE: In lieu of paved curb and gutter, the invisible lines to
either side of the paved or used right of way of a road at which water will
naturally flow parallel to such road.
   HOME OCCUPATION: A commercial use customarily carried on in the home by
members of the occupants and as authorized by a conditional use permit as
prescribed in the zoning ordinance.
   IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign for the purpose of identifying an apartment
building, mobile home park, residential, commercial or industrial subdivision
that contains only the name of the development and/or address.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign illuminated in any manner by an artificial light
source.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN: A sign which identifies a school, church, hospital or
similar publicly owned building.
   MAINTENANCE: The cleaning, painting, repair or replacement of defective
parts of a sign in a manner that does not alter the basic copy, design or
structure of the sign.
   MARQUEE SIGN: Any sign attached to and made a part of a marquee. A "marquee"
is defined as a permanent rooflike structure projecting beyond a building wall
at an entrance to a building or extending along and projecting beyond the
building's wall and generally designed and constructed to provide protection
against the weather.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign which does not conform to the regulations of
this chapter.
   OFF PREMISES SIGN: A sign structure advertising an establishment,
merchandise, service, information or entertainment which is not sold, produced,
manufactured or furnished at the premises on which such sign is located, e.g.,
billboards, outdoor advertising, off site signs, or bench signs.
ON PREMISES SIGN: A sign which pertains to the legal use of the premises on
which it is located, including signs and sign devices indicating the business
transacted, services rendered, or goods sold or produced on the premises, name
of the business, and name of the person occupying the premises.
   OWNER: A person recorded as such on the official Hidalgo County tax records.
For the purposes of this section, the owner of property on which a sign is
located is presumed to be the owner of the sign, unless facts to the contrary
are officially recorded or otherwise brought to the attention of the building
official.
   PERMANENT SIGN: A sign that is securely attached to a building or premises
according to the prevailing building codes.
   POLITICAL SIGN: Any temporary sign whose sole purpose is the transmittal of
information concerning an upcoming political issue or campaign, a public issue
of potential concern to the community as a whole, and/or a political
candidate's sign, except when each sign is affixed to a permanent sign
structure.
   PORTABLE SIGN: A movable sign that is not attached to a permanent support or
building, designed to be temporary and mobile. Portable signs that have been
installed in cement foundation and/or a permanent pole, does not make the
portable sign permanent. This definition includes signs attached to trailers,
but does not include signs permanently placed on the sides of motor vehicles.
For purposes of this definition, portable signs include: signs having generally
fluorescent letters against typically black backgrounds; lighted arrow signs,
inflatable signs and similar types of signs that have the same effect such as
with a white background. Such signs are only allowed in grand openings and are
to be removed within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of business
license issuance; all such type of portable signs are to be removed within six
(6) months from the date of the adoption of this chapter.
   PREMISES: Any lot, tract or parcel of land, platted or unplatted, whether or
not held under common ownership, including all buildings thereon and
appurtenances thereto.
   PREVAILING BUILDING CODE: That code adopted by the city commission and being
a set of rules and regulations designed to protect the public's life, health
and welfare in the built environment. It may also be the international building
code and related appendices that may from time to time be adopted by the city.
   PROJECTING SIGN: Any sign other than a wall sign affixed to any building or
wall, whose leading edge extends beyond such building or wall.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN: Any temporary sign which is used to offer for sale, lease,
or rent the property upon which the sign is placed. No permit is required if
the sign has an area of forty (40) square feet or less.
   RIGHT OF WAY: Any property interests dedicated for public use and owned or
controlled by the city of Alamo. Right of way includes the property behind the
street which is part of the dedicated street right of way or may be a dedicated
utility easement. Right of way includes fee ownership of the city of Alamo.
   ROOF SIGN: Any sign erected or constructed wholly upon and over the roof of
any building and supported solely on the roof structure.
   SECONDARY ARTERIAL CORRIDOR: Shall be all of U.S. Business Highway 83.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED SIGN: Any sign which attracts attention to sexual
activities, promotes sex, has or insinuates a sexual meaning or body part or
exposes sexually explicit parts of the body.
   SIGN: Any device, structure, fixture, or placard using graphics, symbols
and/or written copy designed specifically for the purpose of informing,
advertising or identifying any establishment, product, goods or services.
   SIGN CLEARANCE: The smallest vertical distance between the grade of the
adjacent street or street curb and the lowest point of any sign, including
framework and embellishments, extending over the grade.
   SIGN HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from the highest point of the
sign to the grade of the adjacent street or the surface grade beneath the sign,
whichever is less.
   SNIPE SIGN: Any sign of any material whatsoever that is attached in any way
to a utility pole, tree, or any object located or situated on public or private
property.
   STREET BANNER SIGN: Any temporary banner sign which is stretched across and
hung over a public right of way.
   STREET FRONTAGE: The length of the property line along the street right of
way. The total length of the property line along a particular street would be
considered one street frontage. A lot abutting upon two (2) or more public
streets at their intersection will be considered to have two (2) or more
frontages, but the same linear frontage may not be used to determine the
permitted area of more than one sign.
   TEMPORARY SIGN: Any sign not on a permanent foundation, the life of which
does not extend beyond that specified for certain uses in this chapter, such as
construction, real estate, political, portable and trailer signs.
V-TYPE SIGN: A structure composed of two (2) signs in the shape of the letter
"V" when viewed from above, and with their faces oriented in opposite
directions.
   WALL SIGN: Any sign painted on or attached to and is parallel to the face
of, or erected and confined within the limits of, the outside wall of any
building and supported by such wall or building and which displays only one
advertising surface.
   WINDOW SIGN: Any sign affixed, attached or displayed through the interior or
exterior of a window, not to exceed in size the surface of the window area in
order to advertise a product, message, offer, etc. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-3: ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   The building official, or designated representative, is hereby
authorized and directed to administer and enforce all the provisions of this
chapter, and shall have the right to enter any premises for inspection purposes
during reasonable hours and after reasonable notice has been given, to ensure
the enforcement of this chapter. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-4: PERMITS; INSPECTIONS; FEES REQUIRED:
   A.   Sign Permit: Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person shall
erect, construct, reconstruct, maintain, move, install or replace a sign until
a sign permit has been issued by the city according to this chapter.
   B.   Application; Suspension, Revocation Of Permit:
      1.   Application for a sign permit shall be made to the building official
upon a form provided by such official and shall include the following
information:
         a.   Name and address of the owner of the sign.
         b.   Street address or location of the property on which the sign is
to be located, along with the name and address of the property owner.
         c.   The type of proposed sign or sign structure, as defined in this
chapter.
         d.   A site plan showing the proposed location of the sign along with
the locations and square footage areas of all existing signs on the same
premises or drawings of buildings showing the area where the sign shall be
installed.
         e.   Specifications and scale drawings showing the materials, design,
dimensions, structural supports and electrical components of the proposed sign.
         f.   A statement of valuation of the proposed sign(s).
         g.   The building official shall, within ten (10) working days of the
date of the application, either approve or deny the application or refer the
application back to the applicant in any instance where insufficient
information has been furnished.
      2.   If, in the opinion of the building official, the size, shape, type
or design of a proposed sign renders it structurally unsound or not permitted
by this code, he shall disapprove the application for a permit.
      3.   The building official may suspend or revoke an issued permit for any
false statement or misrepresentation of fact in the application. All signs must
be erected in accordance with approved plans, without changes, unless
authorized by the building official.
   C.   Fees And Conditions:
      1.   A minimum fee of forty five dollars ($45.00) shall be charged or a
fee based on the value of the sign, whichever is greater.
      2.   Sign permit shall expire after one hundred twenty (120) days after
date of issuance if it is not used. A permit may be canceled by an applicant at
any time but the permit fee may be retained by the city.
   D.   Inspection:
      1.   Right To Enter; Inspections: To ensure compliance with this chapter,
the building official shall have the right to enter any premises for inspection
purposes during reasonable hours. Also, the building official, upon
notification by the permit holder or his agent, shall make or cause to be made
any necessary inspections and shall either approve that portion of the
construction as completed or the placement of the sign or shall notify the
permit holder or the agent wherein the sign fails to comply with this chapter.
      2.   Foundation Inspection: A foundation inspection is required of all
permanent outdoor advertising displays constructed of block or brick or for
which footings are required. Such inspections shall be made after trenches are
excavated and any reinforcing steel is in place and prior to the placing of
concrete. It shall be the responsibility of the sign contractor or owner to
call for the required inspection.
      3.   Setbacks Inspection: A setback inspection is required of all signs,
permanent and temporary. Setbacks shall be inspected prior to the placing of
concrete for permanent signs and after placement of permit approved temporary
signs to ensure such sign is not in a public right of way. It shall be the
responsibility of the sign contractor or owner to call for the required
inspection.
      4.   Electrical Inspection: An electrical inspection is required of all
illuminated signs. All electrical work shall be done by a licensed master sign
electrician. It shall be the responsibility of the sign electrician to call for
the required inspection. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-5: MAINTENANCE; REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR:
   A.   Maintenance: All signs for which a permit is required by this article,
together with all their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in
good repair and unless constructed of galvanized or noncorroding metal shall be
thoroughly painted at least once every two (2) years. The building official
may, after due notice is given, order the removal of any sign that is not
maintained in accordance with the provisions of this section. Such removal
shall be at the expense of the owner or lessee.
   B.   Replacement Or Repair: When any sign or a substantial part of any sign
is blown down or otherwise destroyed or taken down or removed for any purpose
other than maintenance operations or for changing the letters, symbols, or
other matter on the sign, it may not be reerected, reconstructed, or rebuilt
except in full conformance with the provisions and requirements of this
chapter. For purposes of this subsection, a sign or substantial part of a sign
is considered to have been destroyed only if the cost of repairing such sign is
more than fifty percent (50%) of the original cost of the existing sign at the
same location. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-6: REMOVAL OF SIGNS BY BUILDING OFFICIAL:
   A.   The building official, or duly authorized representative, shall cause
to be removed any sign that endangers the public safety, such as an abandoned,
dangerous, or materially, electrically, or structurally defective sign, or a
sign for which no permit has been issued. A notice shall be prepared which
shall describe the sign and specify the violation involved, and which shall
state that, if the sign is not removed or the violation is not corrected within
ten (10) days, the sign shall be removed in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
   B.   All notices mailed by the planning department under this section shall
be sent by certified mail. If such address is known, or with reasonable care
should be known, the notice shall be mailed to or hand delivered to the owner
of the sign and the occupant of the property. Any time periods provided in this
section shall be deemed to commence on the date of mailing the certified mail.
The notice shall be mailed to the owner of the property on which the sign is
located as recorded with the Hidalgo County appraisal district.
   C.   Any person having an interest in the sign to be removed pursuant to
this section or the property where such sign is situated may appeal the
determination of the building official or duly authorized representative
ordering removal or compliance by filing a written notice of appeal accompanied
with a completed application for a public hearing with the city commission
within thirty (30) days after the date of mailing the notice, or within thirty
(30) days after receipt of the notice if the notice was hand delivered.
   D.   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, in cases of emergency,
or in cases where signs are located in rights of way or public property, the
building official or duly authorized representative may cause the immediate
removal of such signs without notice. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-7: RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY:
   A.   Unless otherwise approved by the building official, no more than two
(2) permanent signs shall be allowed on one lot, except those lots with double
frontage, in which case a maximum of three (3) permanent signs will be
permitted with at least one sign on each frontage. If a multifrontage
development, another tenant sign may be permitted but not to exceed:
      1.   Forty feet (40') in height;
      2.   Two hundred (200) square feet per face; and
      3.   Is subject to planning and zoning site plan approval.
   B.   No site may utilize more than three (3) different types of signs
without the approval of the building official, excluding temporary and exempted
signs.
   C.   Signs shall not create a nuisance to the occupancy or use of other
properties as a result of their size, height, brightness, content or movement.
   D.   Signs shall be in harmony with the building, the neighborhood, or other
signs in the area, except when such other signs do not meet the objectives of
this chapter.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or place upon trees,
fences, street signs, or on/in any public right of way or city property, or
against any telephone or electric lightpole, within the city any sign
advertisement of any character or description.
   F.   No sign shall be allowed within the corner of a lot with two (2) street
frontages unless it is placed outside of the triangular shaped area described
as follows:
      1.   Beginning at the precise corner of the intersection point of the
curbs of each of the two (2) streets forming each corner and extending thirty
feet (30') along each such curbline from such curb intersection point; thence
from one such thirty foot (30') extension to the other, whether such land is
privately owned or unpaved or untraveled street right of way.
      2.   Where no curbs are in existence at such street intersections, such
thirty foot (30') lines shall coincide with the central flow line of the
ditches paralleling such uncurbed streets, as shall be determined by the
building official or duly authorized representative.
   G.   No sign of any type shall be placed within the public right of way of
the city without the approval of the city commission. In determining whether to
grant approval, the city commission shall consider the community service or
civic oriented influence of such sign as well as the need, type, tenure, size,
height, aesthetics, location, lighting, liability and maintenance aspects of
the sign and its effect on the surrounding grounds. If approved, the sign shall
be subject to removal, at the expense of the owner, upon thirty (30) days'
written notice to the owner by the city. If approved, the owner of the sign
shall execute a hold harmless and indemnification agreement which shall be
recorded in the office of the county clerk of Hidalgo County, Texas, at the
option of the city, and shall pay to the city an application fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   H.   A maximum of two (2) searchlights may be allowed only in conjunction
with a grand opening on a temporary basis within the city limits but shall be
operated so as to not create a traffic hazard or risk traffic safety and shall
require the approval of the building official. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-8: APPEALS:
   A.   Any person contesting any disapproval, interpretation and/or the
application of any rule, standard, regulation, determination, requirement, or
necessity set forth in this chapter shall have the right to appeal the decision
of the building official through the city commission by established procedures.
The board shall have the jurisdiction to grant special variances from the
provisions of this chapter where it is found, upon presentation of adequate
proof, that compliance with any provisions of this chapter will result in an
arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property or in the practical closing or
elimination of any lawful business, or a substantial financial hardship or
inequity, in any case without sufficient corresponding benefit or advantage to
the city and its citizens in terms of accomplishing the objectives of this
chapter as set forth in section
9-4-1 of this chapter. The city commission may permit such modifications of the
requirements of this chapter as may be found necessary to avoid inconvenience
arising because of the location of existing structures or of topography and is
hereby authorized to grant such variances in accordance with the following
restrictions:
      1.   Setback, sign face, height of detached on premises signs may be
increased as much as ten percent (10%), and one (1) additional wall sign may be
awarded but not to exceed the maximum 10%, as cited herein.
      2.   The number of permanent (ground pole/multi-tenant) signs on any
premises may be increased by not more than one.
      3.   In no case may the board authorize a private sign on or over public
property unless specifically authorized by this chapter. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-
2016; amd. Ord. 20-03-22, 3-1-2022)
9-4-9: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Any person violating any of the terms and conditions of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-10: SIGN CLASSIFICATIONS:
   A.   Permitted Signs: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
permitted signs shall be as enumerated in section
9-4-12, "Signs Permitted By Zoning Districts", of this chapter.
   B.   Exempted Signs: The following signs shall not require permits under
this chapter:
      1.   Signs not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers, or names of occupants of premises.
      2.   Flags and insignia of any government, except when displayed in
connection with a commercial promotion.
      3.   Public signs of a public or noncommercial nature, which shall
include community service information signs, public transit service signs
(traffic signs), public utility information signs, safety signs, danger signs,
trespassing signs, signs indicating scenic or historical points of interest,
and all signs erected by a public officer in the performance of a public duty.
      4.   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights.
      5.   Signs which are fully located within the interior of any building or
stadium, or within an enclosed lobby or court of any building, and signs
located within the inner or outer lobby, court, or entrance of any theater
which are intended solely for information relating to the interior operation of
the building in which they are located.
      6.   Memorial plaques or tablets, grave markers, statues and other
remembrances of persons or events that are noncommercial in nature.
      7.   Home occupation signs as allowed by the zoning ordinance.
      8.   Temporary political signs, unless on a trailer; see subsection D of
this section.
      9.   Temporary real estate signs having forty (40) square feet or less of
face area.
      10.   Window signs.
      11.   Construction signs.
      12.   Signs placed on the sides of motor vehicles, unless the vehicle is
used as a stationary sign support.
      13.   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property, but bearing no advertising matter. A sign containing the word
"parking" at any parking lot where any person is charged any fee or other
monetary consideration for parking shall be considered an advertising sign, not
a private traffic directional sign.
      14.   Yard sale signs; provided, however, that no person shall attach in
any way posters, notices or advertisements to utility poles, meter posts, or
trees in or along any street right of way within the city, and that no person
shall put up any notice upon any building, wall or fence or other property of
another person without having first obtained the consent of the owner of such
property. Yard sale or home sale signs shall only run concurrently with
officially authorized yard sales and shall be immediately removed thereafter.
      15.   Gasoline price signs attached to a permanent fixture or structure
not exceeding a total area of twelve (12) square feet.
      16.   Signs not exceeding three (3) square feet in area attached to gas
pumps or gas pump canopies that are informational or directional and do not
contain advertising matter.
      17.   Community service or civic oriented street banner signs hanging
over a public right of way for a limited time subject to the approval of the
city commission.
      18.   Any other temporary sign that the planning director may determine
would be unreasonable to require a permit for.
   C.   Prohibited Signs: It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any sign
which is not included under the types of signs permitted in district
regulations. Prohibited signs within the corporate limits of the city and its
extraterritorial jurisdiction include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Any signs which resemble an official traffic sign or signal which
bear the words "stop", "go slow", "caution", "danger", "warning" or similar
words, and which were not placed by proper governmental authority.
      2.   Signs which by reason of their size, location, movement, content,
coloring or manner of illumination may be confused with or construed to be a
traffic control sign, signal, or device, and which were not placed by proper
governmental authority, or the light of an emergency or road equipment vehicle,
or which hide from view any traffic or street sign, signal or device.
      3.   Signs placed on trees, rocks, other natural features (snipe signs).
      4.   Signs which emit sound, smoke, or steam.
      5.   Signs erected or placed within the public right of way shall be
removed.
      6.   Signs that are obsolete, damaged to an extent of more than fifty
percent (50%) of its fair market value, that do not meet the prevailing
building code; out of date political signs and billboards, feathered flag signs
or temporary banner signs with pole supports, signs advertising defunct
businesses and signs which require a sign permit but were erected without such
a permit having been issued.
      7.   Signs that are not legible or in good repair, such as with broken
faces, faded or missing letters, etc.
      8.   Signs that are not securely fixed as per the prevailing building
code.
      9.   Signs that prevent or obstruct free ingress or egress from any
doors, windows or fire escapes, or that are attached to a standpipe or fire
escape.
Note: Those existing signs attached to a building or canopy which project into
or hang over the public right of way shall be allowed to remain; however, they
must comply with the prevailing building code and must be brought into
compliance if existing sign is removed, damaged, or destroyed. Such signs when
hung from a marquee or canopy shall be at least eight feet (8') at the lowest
level above the sidewalk or ground level. Signs shall not extend outside the
line of the canopy. Signs shall not extend more than six feet (6') above or
eighteen inches (18") below the canopy and under no circumstances shall the
sign have a vertical dimension greater than eight feet (8').
   D.   Temporary Signs:
      1.   Temporary Construction Signs: Temporary construction signs shall be
permitted on the site of approved projects or developments. Temporary
construction signs may be erected and maintained for a period of thirty (30)
days prior to commencement of construction and shall be removed by the owner
within thirty (30) days after completion of the building/project on the site.
      2.   Temporary Political Signs: Temporary political signs may be placed
in all zoning districts; however, such signs shall not be placed in the public
right of way or any railroad right of way. Except for polling places, political
signs shall be placed at twenty five foot (25') intervals from each other and
removed within fifteen (15) days following the election or runoff election for
which the sign is posted. If after the fifteen (15) day tenure the signs are
not removed, the city may remove the signs without notice and levy a twenty
five dollar ($25.00) per sign fee for signs that are less than four (4) square
feet and a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee for signs that are above four (4) square
feet in size to the candidate. Political signs at polling places shall be
removed immediately after the polls close. Political signs shall not be placed
within the city limits prior to ninety (90) days before the election; if such
signs are placed prior to the ninety (90) day tenure, a three hundred dollar
($300.00) flat fee shall be imposed to the candidate and the signs in violation
of the ninety (90) day tenure shall be removed and disposed of by the city
without notice.
      3.   Temporary Real Estate Signs: Temporary real estate signs shall be
located only upon the premises for sale, lease, or rent. Such signs shall be
removed within fifteen (15) days following the sale or lease of the premises
upon which the sign is located.
      4.   Temporary Banner Signs: Temporary banner signs and feathered flag
signs shall be allowed with permission of the building official or duly
authorized representative and shall not be placed less than twenty five feet
(25') from each other.
   E.   Abandoned/Unsafe/Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Abandoned Signs: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any
sign that is located on property which becomes vacant and is unoccupied for a
period of three (3) months or more, or any sign which pertains to a time,
event, or purpose which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have been
abandoned. Permanent signs applicable to a business temporarily suspended
because of a change of ownership or management of such business shall not be
deemed abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of six (6)
consecutive months or more. An abandoned sign is prohibited and shall be
removed by the owner of the sign, owner of the premises, or the city after
written notice has been served.
      2.   Unsafe Signs: Should any sign become unsecure or in danger of
falling or otherwise unsafe in the opinion of the building official, the owner
thereof, or the person maintaining such sign, shall upon written notice from
the building official, forthwith in the case of immediate danger and in any
case within ten (10) days, secure such sign in a manner to be approved by the
building official, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, or remove
such sign. If such order is not complied within ten (10) days, the city shall
remove such sign at the expense of the owner or lessee thereof.
      3.   Nonconforming Signs: Allowing nonconforming signs to remain in place
indefinitely hampers the primary function of this chapter of improving the
appearance of the community through sign control. No nonconforming sign shall
be repaired or renovated where the effect of such repair or renovation shall be
to enlarge or increase the structure of the nonconforming sign. For the
purposes of this section, normal maintenance shall not be considered to be
repair or renovation. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-11: STRUCTURAL AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design And Stress Diagrams: Before a permit shall be granted, the
erector of every outdoor advertising sign, with the exception of temporary
signs, shall submit to the building official a design and stress diagram or
plan containing the design and stress specifications for such sign.
   B.   Wind Pressure: All outdoor advertising displays shall be constructed to
withstand the wind pressure as specified by the prevailing building code. Signs
proposed over ten feet (10') in height shall require an engineered design to
withstand the wind pressure for this region as specified by the prevailing
building code.
   C.   Plastic Materials: All outdoor advertising displays using plastic
materials, wholly or partially, shall comply with specifications stipulated in
the prevailing building code.
   D.   Measurement Of Sign Area: The size of a sign shall be measured from the
outside dimensions of the sign and frame. A sign may have one or more display
faces, unless otherwise specified. For off premises signs which are double
faced, each face is considered a separate sign in computing the face area. For
on premises signs which are double faced, each face is considered a separate
sign in computing the face area if each face is advertising a different
business on the property. If the face area of an on premises sign is identical
on both sides, then the face area is computed by measuring one side only.
   E.   Setbacks: For purposes of this chapter, setbacks shall be measured from
the outside frame of the sign if the sign face is parallel to the property
line. Setbacks are determined according to the type of sign and the zone in
which the sign is to be located; see section
9-4-12 of this chapter. Under no circumstances shall a private sign be allowed
to project into a public right of way unless otherwise authorized by this
chapter. (Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016)
9-4-12: SIGNS PERMITTED BY ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Residential Districts:
      1.   The following signs are permitted in all residentially zoned areas
as classified by the city:
         a.   On Premises Signs: The following on premises signs shall be
limited to two (2) permanent signs per site in a single-family residential zone
for an institutional use:
            (1)   Ground Pole Signs:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Sixty (60) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Twenty feet (20').
            (2)   Wall Signs: Shall be limited to two (2) per entrance to a
subdivision. Wall signs shall comply with the prevailing building code.
               (A)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet of wall or fences.
               (B)   Minimum setback: Attached or painted to fence or wall.
            (3)   Changeable Copy Signs:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Twenty feet (20').
            (4)   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall be permitted as
allowed in this subsection. Such signs shall be limited to one temporary sign
per site and shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this chapter.
            (5)   Banner Signs: Shall be limited to one temporary banner per
institutional site. Such signs may be displayed for a period of no more than
thirty (30) consecutive days, after which the sign will be removed and may not
be replaced.
            (6)   Construction Sign: May be erected no more than thirty (30)
days prior to construction. After completion of the building or project, such
signs shall be removed within thirty (30) calendar days.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (7)   Political Signs: Shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this
chapter including their placement at twenty five foot (25') intervals from each
other and their removal within fifteen (15) days following the election for
which the sign is posted.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (8)   Real Estate Signs: Shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of
this chapter including their removal within fifteen (15) days following the
sale or lease of the premises upon which the sign is posted.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (9)   Home Occupation Signs: Home occupation signs shall be
permitted through an approved conditional use permit for a home occupation to
be no more than two feet by two feet (2' x 2') and shall be attached to the
home.
         b.   Off Premises Signs: Off premises signs are prohibited in all
residentially zoned districts.
      2.   Additional requirements:
         a.   No sign shall have less than a minimum setback of five feet (5')
from any property line, except as listed in this section.
         b.   No permanent sign shall have a face larger than forty (40) square
feet, except as listed in this section.
         c.   No sign shall exceed fifteen feet (15') in height, except as
listed in this section.
         d.   No sign or part of any sign in the residential districts shall
move, flash, rotate or change its illumination unless on an institutional site.
Temporary holiday decorations are permitted.
         e.   No portable signs shall be permitted in any residential zoning
district.
         f.   When computing the face area of an on premises sign, it shall be
computed as outlined in section
9-4-11 of this chapter.
         g.   There shall be no limit to the number of political signs allowed
in the residential zoning districts except that they be spaced at twenty five
foot (25') intervals from other signs to avoid visual clutter.
   B.   Light Commercial District:
      1.   The following signs are permitted in the light commercial (C-1)
district as classified by the city, except for zoning areas located along the
city's expressway corridors as outlined in subsection D of this section.
         a.   On Premises Signs: The following on premises signs shall be
limited to a combination of any two (2) of the following permanent signs per
business and/or site, unless otherwise specified:
            (1)   Accessory Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from the property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Sixteen (16) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (2)   Canopy Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign per
business and shall comply with the prevailing building code.
            (3)   Changeable Copy Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Twenty feet (20').
            (4)   Directory Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Twenty feet (20').
            (5)   Ground/Tenant Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign
per site. In the case of a multi-unit building, one ground or tenant sign
capable of including all businesses located within the multi-tenant building
will be allowed per site along with a wall sign, canopy sign or roof sign for
each business as permitted in this subsection.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet per tenant.
               (C)   Maximum height: Thirty feet (30').
            (6)   Subdivision Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Attached to a fence or wall at the
entrance of a subdivision.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet on each side of the
entrance to the subdivision.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (7)   Wall Sign: Shall be limited to two (2) per site, of which
there shall be no more than one facing in each direction. Wall signs shall
comply with the prevailing building code.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Attached or painted on wall or fence.
               (B)   Maximum size: Sixty four (64) square feet of wall or
fence.
         b.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall be permitted as allowed in
this subsection. Such signs shall be limited to one temporary sign per site and
shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this chapter.
            (1)   Banner Sign: Shall be permitted for a period of thirty (30)
days. After the thirty (30) day period, such signs shall be removed and not be
replaced for a period of six (6) months. Banners three feet (3') or less in
width do not require a permit.
            (2)   Construction Sign: Shall be limited to one temporary sign per
site and shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this chapter.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (3)   Political Sign: Shall be limited to temporary signs and shall
comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this chapter, including their placement at
twenty five foot (25') intervals from each other and their removal within
fifteen (15) days after the results of the election for which such signs are
placed.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (4)   Portable Signs: Shall be permitted on an "on premises" basis
and only during the business's grand opening date which commences from the date
the city issues a business permit for such business. Portable signs shall be
removed no later than thirty (30) calendar days from the grand opening date. No
portable signs shall be otherwise permitted. The portable signs shall comply
with subsection 9-4-10D of this chapter.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (5)   Real Estate Sign: Shall be limited to one temporary,
nonilluminated sign per site and shall comply with subsection
9-4-10D of this chapter.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (6)   Street Banner Sign: Shall be allowed on special occasions
with the permission of the city commission; such signs shall in no way affect
the traffic flow visibility.
         c.   Off Premises Signs: The following off premises signs shall be
limited to one per site. A person may not place an off premises sign on any
private property without first obtaining written permission from the owner or
the owner's authorized agent.
            (1)   Bench Sign: Bench signs shall be permitted subject to
approval of the building official and the chief of police. Bench signs shall be
allowed in C-1 districts only at sites along a bus route or at locations
characterized by substantial pedestrian traffic and shall not be placed on
public property. The city shall consider the placement, number and spacing of
bench signs prior to any approval.
         d.   Additional Requirements:
            (1)   No sign shall have less than a minimum setback of five feet
(5') from any property line, except as listed in this section.
            (2)   No permanent sign shall have a face larger than forty (40)
square feet, except as listed in this section.
            (3)   No sign shall exceed thirty feet (30') in height, except as
listed in this section.
            (4)   When computing the face area of an on premises sign, it shall
be computed as outlined in section
9-4-11 of this chapter.
            (5)   There shall be no limit to the number of political signs
allowed in C-1 districts except that such signs be spaced at twenty five foot
(25') intervals to avoid visual cluttering.
   C.   Commercial And Industrial Districts:
      1.   The following signs are permitted in the general business and
industrial districts classified in the city zoning ordinance, except for zoning
areas located along the city's expressway corridors as outlined in subsection D
of this section:
         a.   On Premises Signs: The following on premises signs shall be
permitted, limited to a combination of any two (2) of the following permanent
signs per business and/or site, unless otherwise specified:
            (1)   Accessory Sign: Allowed as required.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Twenty (20) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (2)   Canopy Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign per
business and shall comply with the prevailing building code. However, for
business’ canopy along State of Texas (TXDoT) thoroughfares, a maximum of two
(2) gas price signs per canopy face, with a (combined) square footage of fifty
(50) square feet, may be permitted subject to securing the required building
permit(s).
            (3)   Changeable Copy Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Thirty feet (30').
            (4)   Directory Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Twenty feet (20').
            (5)   Ground Or Tenant Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign
per site. In the case of a multi-unit building, one ground or tenant sign
capable of including all businesses located within the multi-tenant building
will be allowed per site along with a wall sign, canopy sign or roof sign for
each business as permitted in this subsection.
               (A)   Maximum size: One square foot per every linear foot of
frontage to a public street, not to exceed two hundred (200) square feet per
face. In the case of a multi-unit complex a tenant sign may not exceed two
hundred (200) square feet.
               (B)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (C)   Maximum height: Forty feet (40'); however, properties
commercially or industrially zoned that are within one thousand two hundred
feet (1,200') from the expressway corridor and having frontage to a state
maintained road or thoroughfare, shall have increased height consideration from
forty feet (40') to fifty feet (50').
            (6)   Marquee Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign per site
and shall comply with the prevailing building code. Size of marquee cannot
exceed eight feet (8') in width and thirty two feet (32') in length.
            (7)   Roof Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign per site,
and shall comply with the standard building code. Size of roof sign cannot
exceed four feet (4') in height and sixteen feet (16') in length.
            (8)   Subdivision Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Attached to fence or wall at the entrance
of a subdivision.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet on each side of
entrance to subdivision.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (9)   Wall Sign: Shall be limited to four (4) per premises, of
which there shall be no more than one facing each direction. Wall signs shall
comply with the prevailing building code.
               (A)   Maximum ten percent (10%) of wall face but no more than
five hundred (500) square feet; any wall sign over five hundred (500) square
feet but at ten percent (10%) of the wall face shall require the planning and
zoning commission's site plan approval. Wall signs proposed along the
expressway corridor and secondary arterials but zoned C-1 shall still only be
permitted to have a maximum sixty four (64) square foot wall sign.
               (B)   Maximum setback: Attached or painted to wall.
         b.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall be permitted as listed in
this subsection. Such signs shall be limited to one temporary sign per site and
shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this chapter.
            (1)   Banner Sign: Shall be limited to two (2) temporary banner
signs per business. Banners shall be permitted for a period of thirty (30)
consecutive days, after which they shall be removed and not be replaced for a
period of six (6) months.
            (2)   Construction Sign: Shall be limited to one temporary
construction sign for each project or development, and shall comply with
subsection 9-4-10D of this chapter.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (3)   Portable Sign: Shall be permitted on an "on premises" basis
and only during the business's grand opening date which commences from the date
the city issues a business permit for such business. Portable signs shall be
removed no later than thirty (30) calendar days from the grand opening date. No
portable signs shall be otherwise permitted. Portable signs existing at the
time of the passage of this chapter shall be allowed and remain as is; however,
once six (6) months elapse, such signs shall be removed from the property where
it is not visible to the public. Shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this
chapter.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (4)   Political Sign: Shall be limited as per subsection 9-4-10D of
this chapter, including their placement spaced at twenty five foot (25')
intervals and removal within fifteen (15) days after the results of the
election for which such signs are placed.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (5)   Real Estate Sign: Shall be limited to one temporary sign per
approved site. Such signs may be erected no more than thirty (30) days prior to
construction and shall comply with subsection
9-4-10D of this chapter.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (6)   Street Banner Sign: Shall be allowed on special occasions
with the permission of the city commission. Such signs shall in no way affect
traffic flow or visibility.
         c.   Off Premises Signs: The following off premises signs shall be
limited to one per site. A person may not place an off premises sign on private
property without first obtaining written permission from the owner.
            (1)   Bench Sign: Bench signs shall be permitted subject to
approval of the building official and the chief of police. Bench signs shall be
allowed in C-1 districts only at sites along a bus route or at locations
characterized by substantial pedestrian traffic and shall not be placed on
public property. The city shall consider the placement, number and spacing of
bench signs prior to any approval.
            (2)   Billboard Sign: Off premises billboard signs shall not be
permitted in the general business or the industrial district except as provided
for in the expressway corridor and the secondary arterial corridors. See
subsection D of this section.
            (3)   Off Premises Business Signs: Off premises business signs
shall be permitted subject to the approval of the city commission. The
placement of such signs shall be for no more than two (2) years and are subject
to the following:
               (A)   Sign must be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the business being advertised.
               (B)   Maximum size: Thirty two (32) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
               (D)   Minimum setbacks: Five feet (5').
               (E)   Must provide written approval from the property owner.
               (F)   Illuminated signs, CEVMS/changeable copy signs, and
portable signs are not permitted.
         d.   Additional Requirements:
            (1)   No sign shall have less than a minimum setback of five feet
(5') from any property line, except as listed in this section.
            (2)   No permanent sign shall have a face larger than two hundred
(200) square feet, except as listed in this section.
            (3)   No sign shall exceed fifty feet (50') in height, except as
listed in this section.
            (4)   When computing the face area of an on premises sign, it shall
be computed as outlined in section
9-4-11 of this chapter.
            (5)   There shall be no limit to the number of political signs
allowed in the zoning districts regulated by this section except that they be
spaced at twenty five foot (25') intervals and removed within fifteen (15) days
after the results of the election for which they are located.
   D.   Expressway Corridor:
      1.   This section specifies which signs are permitted in the city's
expressway corridor, as defined in section
9-4-2 of this chapter.
      2.   It also specifies which signs are permitted in the secondary
arterial corridors as defined in section
9-4-2 of this chapter:
         a.   On Premises Signs: The following on premises signs shall be
permitted, limited to a combination of any two (2) of the following permanent
signs per business and/or site, unless otherwise specified:
            (1)   Accessory Sign:
               (A)   Minimum Setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum Size: Sixty (60) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum Height: Eighteen feet (18').
               (D)   Separation: Fifty feet (50') from any other sign or
accessory sign.
               (E)   Landscaping: One square foot of landscaping around the
proposed accessory sign per every square foot of accessory sign's face.
            (2)   Canopy Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign per
business and shall comply with the prevailing building code.
            (3)   Changeable Copy Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Eighty (80) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Forty feet (40').
            (4)   Directory Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5').
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Twenty feet (20').
            (5)   Portable Signs: Shall be permitted on an "on premises" basis
and only during the business's grand opening date which commences from the date
the city issues a business permit for such business. Portable signs shall be
removed no later than thirty (30) calendar days from the grand opening date. No
portable signs shall be otherwise permitted. Any portable sign existing at the
time of the passage of this chapter shall be amortized and remain as is;
however, once six (6) months elapse, such signs shall be removed from the
property where it is not visible to the public.
            (6)   Ground Or Tenant Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign
per site. In the case of a multi-unit building, one ground or tenant sign
capable of including all businesses located within the multi-tenant building
will be allowed per site along with a wall sign, canopy sign or roof sign for
each business as permitted in this subsection.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Three hundred (300) square feet (maximum 4
faces).
               (C)   Maximum height: Fifty feet (50').
            (7)   Marquee Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign per
site, and shall comply with the prevailing building code. Size of marquee
cannot exceed eight feet (8') in width and thirty two feet (32') in length.
            (8)   Roof Sign: Shall be limited to one permanent sign per site,
and shall comply with the prevailing building code. Size of roof sign cannot
exceed four feet (4') in height and sixteen feet (16') in length.
            (9)   Subdivision Sign:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Attached to fence or wall at the
entrances of a subdivision.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet on each side of
entrance to subdivision.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (10)   Wall Sign: Shall be limited to four (4) per premises, of
which there shall be no more than one such sign facing each direction; however,
allowance may be made to have a second wall sign but where the combined square
footage of both such signs shall not exceed 15% of the overall wall face. Wall
signs shall comply with the prevailing building code.
               (A)   Maximum fifteen percent (15%) of wall face but no more
than five hundred (500) square feet; any wall sign over five hundred (500)
square feet but at or within fifteen percent (15%) of the wall face shall
require the Planning and Zoning Commission’s Site Plan Approval. Wall signs
proposed along the Expressway Corridor and secondary arterials but zoned C-
1 shall still only be permitted to have a maximum sixty four (64) square foot
wall sign.
               (B)   Maximum setback: Attached or painted to wall.
         b.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs shall be permitted as listed in
this section. Such signs shall be limited to one temporary sign per site and
shall comply with subsection
9-4-10D of this chapter.
            (1)   Banners: Shall be permitted for a period of thirty (30)
consecutive days, after which such banners shall be removed and not be replaced
for a period of six (6) months. Banners which are less than three feet (3') in
width shall not require a permit.
            (2)   Construction Sign: Shall be limited to one temporary
construction sign for each project or development, and shall comply with
subsection
9-4-10D of this chapter.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (3)   Political Sign: Shall be limited to one temporary sign and
shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this chapter including spacing at
twenty five foot (25') intervals and their removal within fifteen (15) days
after the results of the election for which the signs are placed.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (4)   Portable Sign: Shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this
chapter.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (5)   Real Estate Sign: Shall be limited to one temporary sign per
approved site. Such signs may be erected no more than thirty (30) days prior to
construction and shall comply with subsection 9-4-10D of this chapter.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Forty (40) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
            (6)   Street Banner Sign: Shall be allowed on special occasions
with the permission of the city commission. It shall in no way affect traffic
flow or visibility.
         c.   Off Premises Signs: The following off premises signs shall be
permitted, limited to one per site. A person may not place an off premises sign
on private property without first obtaining written permission from the owner.
            (1)   Bench Sign: Bench signs shall be permitted subject to
approval of the building official and the chief of police. Bench signs shall be
allowed in C-1 districts only at sites along a bus route or at locations
characterized by substantial pedestrian traffic and shall not be placed on
public property. The city shall consider the placement, number and spacing of
bench signs prior to any approval.
            (2)   Billboard Sign: Billboard signs shall be restricted to the
expressway corridor as outlined in each zoning district. No billboard signs
shall be permitted on any commercial corridor and will only be permitted on the
expressway, and to a lesser degree, along the secondary arterial corridors. See
subsection D2c(3) of this section. Billboard signs proposed to have LED visual
display shall obtain approval from the city commission.
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Six hundred seventy two (672) square feet
per face (maximum 2 faces).
               (C)   Maximum height: Sixty feet (60').
               (D)   Spacing: Off premises billboards shall not be erected
within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of another off premises sign.
For the purposes of this regulation, the one thousand five hundred foot
(1,500') radius will factor in, include, and encompass the opposite side of the
expressway.
            (3)   Billboard Signs Along The Secondary Arterial Corridors:
Billboards along secondary arterial corridors shall be subject to the following
restrictions:
               (A)   Minimum setback: Five feet (5') from property line.
               (B)   Maximum size: Two hundred forty two (242) square feet per
face (maximum 2 faces).
               (C)   Maximum height: Thirty feet (30').
               (D)   Spacing: Off premises billboards shall not be erected
within one thousand feet (1,000') of an Alamo business ground pole sign
although such may be on the other side of U.S. Business Highway 83. Such
billboard sign shall be outside a five hundred foot (500') radius of
institutional uses such as a church, park, or school; and located so as not to
create a traffic or visual nuisance.
            (4)   Off Premises Business Signs: Off premises business signs
shall be permitted subject to the approval of the city commission. The
placement of such signs shall be for no more than two (2) years and are subject
to the following:
               (A)   Sign must be located within one thousand feet (1,000') of
the business being advertised.
               (B)   Maximum size: Thirty two (32) square feet.
               (C)   Maximum height: Ten feet (10').
               (D)   Minimum setbacks: Five feet (5').
               (E)   Must provide written approval from the property owner.
               (F)   Illuminated signs, CEVMS/changeable copy signs, and
portable signs are not permitted.
         d.   Additional Requirements:
            (1)   No sign shall have less than a minimum setback of five feet
(5') from any property line, except as listed in this section.
            (2)   No permanent sign shall have a face larger than three hundred
(300) square feet, except as listed in this section.
            (3)   No sign shall exceed sixty feet (60') in height, except as
listed in this section.
            (4)   When computing the face area of an on premises sign, it shall
be computed as outlined in section
9-4-11 of this chapter.
            (5)   There shall be no limit to the number of political signs
allowed in the expressway corridors except that such signs be spaced at twenty
five foot (25') intervals to avoid visual clutter and their removal within
fifteen (15) days after the results of the election for which such signs are
placed.
(Ord. 13-08-16, 8-2-2016; amd. Ord. 58-11-21, 11-16-2021; Ord. 102-6-24, 6-4-
2024)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definitions
9-5-2: Placement Of Mobile Homes; Multipurpose Area
9-5-3: Licensing Provisions
9-5-4: Park Site, Location And Development Requirements
9-5-5: Operation Of Mobile Home Park
9-5-6: Facilities And Services
9-5-7: Mobile Home Tie Down Standards
9-5-8: Violation And Penalties
9-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   ARTERIAL HIGHWAY: Any road or thoroughfare used primarily for regional
travel and referred to as "highway", "expressway" or "freeway".
   INTERIOR ACCESS DRIVE: Any street within a mobile home and/or travel trailer
park which allows access from a mobile home and/or travel trailer lot to a
public road.
   MOBILE HOME OR TRAVEL TRAILER: Any vehicle or similar portable structure
having no foundation other than wheels, jacks, blocks or skirtings and so
designed or constructed as to permit use for occupancy dwelling or sleeping
purposes.
   MOBILE HOME AND/OR TRAVEL TRAILER LOT: Mobile home and/or travel trailer
being located on a separate lot. Subdivision could retain a central management
and could be operated as a condominium, retaining ownership of streets and
common open spaces.
   PARK: Mobile home and/or travel trailer park.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   SECONDARY THOROUGHFARE: Any road or thoroughfare used primarily for travel
between an arterial highway and local residential streets and referred to as
"collector" streets. (Ord. 648, 7-18-1978)
9-5-2: PLACEMENT OF MOBILE HOMES; MULTIPURPOSE AREA:
   A.   Placement Outside Of Parks: No mobile home or travel trailer shall be
permitted to be placed on a residential lot so long as occupied for dwelling or
overnight sleeping purposes, outside of mobile home parks, mobile home
subdivisions or multipurpose area as set out in subsection B of this section.
   B.   Designation Of Multipurpose Area: The following area located within the
city shall be designated a multipurpose area (area in which single-family
residences and mobile homes or travel trailers may be located):
      A tract of land bounded by the alley between Bowie and Crockett Streets
on the north; the southern perimeter of Blocks 89 and 90 of the Alamo Original
Townsite Subdivision; South 7th Street on the west; and Tower Road on the east.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses: Existing mobile homes and/or travel trailers
located outside of a mobile home park or subdivision or the designated
multipurpose area may be altered, expanded or changed within the city provided
that such alteration, expansion or change is in compliance with all applicable
building code provisions of the city and further provided that no such
alteration, expansion or change shall be commenced until the appropriate permit
for said alteration, expansion or change has been obtained from the appropriate
city official and all applicable inspections have been conducted and, provided
further that said alteration, expansion or change shall not result in an
increase of the number of occupants which are permitted in said mobile home
and/or travel trailer. All mobile homes and/or travel trailers located in the
city shall be subject to all city building codes and standards, specifically
including, but not limited to, the Standard Unsafe Building Abatement Code
(1997 or current version). Provided further that any mobile home located within
the city but located outside of a mobile home park or subdivision or the
designated multipurpose area which shall be destroyed or removed from its may
be replaced by another mobile home in accordance with all provisions of this
chapter if said mobile home is replaced within ninety (90) days from the date
of its destruction or removal. (Ord. 12-21-99, 12-21-1999)
   D.   Temporary Permits: A temporary permit to allow mobile homes and/or
travel trailers on residential lots shall be available from the city secretary
on the following conditions:
      1.   The applicant shall show good reason for seeking the temporary
permit, such as proof of ownership of the residential lot and an application
for a lot in the mobile home park or subdivision but such example given herein
shall not be all inclusive of such reason.
      2.   Under no circumstances shall a mobile home and/or travel trailer be
allowed to remain indefinitely on a residential lot while occupied for dwelling
or used for overnight sleeping purposes. (Ord. 648, 7-18-1978; amd. Ord. 160-
02-25, 2-24-2025)
9-5-3: LICENSING PROVISIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or
operate within the city limits any mobile home and/or travel trailer park
unless such person shall first obtain a license therefor.
   B.   License Fees: The annual license fee for mobile home and/or travel
trailer park shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year. The fee for the
transfer of ownership of such license, as provided for in this chapter, shall
be five dollars ($5.00)
   C.   Application For License:
      1.   Applications for a mobile home and/or travel trailer park shall be
filed with the board of commissioners and upon approval by the board of
commissioners, the city secretary shall issue the license. Applications shall
be in writing, signed by the applicant and shall contain the following:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant.
         b.   The location and legal description of the mobile home and/or
travel trailer park.
         c.   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with subsections
9-5-4A and B of this chapter.
         d.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the mobile home and/or travel trailer
park.
         e.   Such further information as may be requested by the board of
commissioners to enable it to determine if the mobile home and/or travel
trailer park will comply with the legal requirements.
      2.   The application and all accompanying plans and specifications shall
be filed in triplicate.
   D.   Investigation Of Application: The city secretary and city planning and
zoning commission shall investigate the applicant and inspect the proposed
plans and specifications. Each of them shall then make a report to the board of
commissioners concerning such applicant and include therein their
recommendations relative to the approval of the plat.
   E.   Approval Of Application: If the mobile home and/or travel trailer park
will be in compliance with all provisions of this chapter and all other
applicable ordinances or statutes, the board of commissioners may approve
contingent upon the completion of the park according to the plans and
specifications submitted with the application.
   F.   Variances: The board of commissioners shall have authority, in their
discretion, to grant variances and deviations from the provision of this
chapter in cases where a strict application of this chapter would cause undue
hardship.
   G.   Issuance Or Denial Of License: Upon completion of development of the
park, the city secretary and the city engineer shall make a site visit and
shall proceed to document chapter provisions violated and ask the board of
commissioners to refuse the application or, upon compliance, immediately issue
a license to operate a mobile home park within the jurisdiction of the city.
   H.   Revocation Of License: The board of commissioners may revoke any
license issued under this chapter in case any of the provisions hereof are
violated. However, before said license may be revoked, the board of
commissioners must give ten (10) days' notice to the holder of the license, and
the holder may request a hearing thereon. Such request shall be made, in
writing, to the city secretary within the ten (10) day notice period. If said
license is revoked, the license may be reissued if the discrepancies causing
said revocation have been duly corrected.
   I.   Transfer And Duration: Upon application for a transfer of the license,
the board of commissioners may issue a transfer upon payment of the transfer
fee. Such original license and transfer thereof may be granted at any time
during the year and shall expire at the end of the year unless previously
revoked or terminated.
   J.   Posting Of License: The license certificate shall be conspicuously
posted in the office of or on the premises of the mobile home and/or travel
trailer park at all times. (Ord. 648, 7-18-1978)
9-5-4: PARK SITE, LOCATION AND DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Park Plan: The mobile home and/or travel trailer park shall conform to
the following requirements:
      1.   Location: The park shall be located on a well drained site, properly
graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
      2.   Park Area: The minimum width and/or depth of the mobile home park or
subdivision shall be two hundred sixty five feet (265'), and the minimum total
area shall be five (5) acres, including one-half (1/2) the width of bordering
streets.
      3.   Area Requirements: There shall be no minimum space size requirements
for mobile home and/or travel trailer spaces; except that there shall be
requirements of:
a. Minimum size of tract of development 5 acres
b. Minimum depth of front setback from   
edge of paved private street:
 Mobile homes                          5 feet
 Recreational vehicles or park model   5 feet
  homes
c. Minimum rear setback                 5 feet
                                        5 feet or pursuant to building/fire
d. Minimum width of side setback        codes regulating the separation between
                                        structures within the same overall MH/
                                        RV Park plat.
e. Maximum number of residential        1
structures per approved space
f. Minimum distance from the edge of
paved private street to the entrance to 18 feet
a garage or enclosed carport
g. Maximum height regulations           20 feet
 
      4.   Interior Access Drive: All mobile home and/or travel trailer lots
shall abut upon an interior access drive of not less than twenty seven feet
(27') in width, which shall have unobstructed access to a public street, alley
or highway.
      5.   Driveways: All driveways shall be hard surfaced, well marked in the
daytime and lighted at night. The minimum quality of such driveway surfacing
shall comply with specific requirements of the land subdivisions title of this
code 1  and street improvement policy of the city.
      6.   Walkways: Walkways not less than three feet (3') wide shall be
provided from the service buildings. The walkways shall be hard surfaced, well
marked in the daytime and lighted at night. Walkways, when clearly designated,
may be contiguous with access drives.
      7.   Tie Down Standards: All mobile homes will comply with section
9-5-7 of this chapter, entitled "an ordinance establishing standards for mobile
home tie downs and adopting house bill 1193, which bill sets out such mobile
home tie down standards".
   B.   Mobile Home Subdivisions Plan:
      1.   General Requirements: Mobile home subdivisions shall meet all
requirements pertaining to size of lots, drainage, widths of streets and alleys
and curbs and gutters as set forth in the land subdivisions title of this code.
      2.   Conversion To Subdivision: A mobile home park and/or travel trailer
park may be converted to a mobile home subdivision; provided, it is replatted
and that all conditions pertaining to the platting of subdivisions are met.
      3.   Area Requirements:
a. Minimum size of tract of development                               10 lots
b. Maximum number of single-family dwelling units per lot             1 only
c. Minimum depth of front setback                                     10 feet
d. Minimum depth of rear setback                                      5 feet
e. Minimum width of side setback:                                      
   Internal lot                                                    5 feet
   External lot (abutting street)                                  10 feet
f. Minimum distance between separate structures on same lot including 10 feet
appurtenances
g. Minimum distance from the public right of way to the required      18 feet
parking area whether open, covered, or enclosed
h. Maximum height of structures                                       25 feet
 
(Ord. 4-15-97, 4-15-1997)
   C.   Location: Each boundary of the park or subdivision must be at least one
hundred feet (100') from any permanent residential building located outside the
park; provided, however, that the provisions of this subsection shall not apply
to mobile home and/or travel trailer parks or subdivisions already in existence
and operation at the effective date hereof, and such existing and operating
parks shall be treated as a nonconforming use insofar as the requirements of
this subsection are concerned.
   D.   Access, Exit And Parking:
      1.   Access to the mobile home or trailer park shall be from an arterial
highway or secondary thoroughfare. The number and location of access drives
shall be controlled for traffic safety and protection of surrounding
properties, and no mobile home or trailer space shall be designated for direct
access to a street outside the boundaries of the mobile home or trailer park,
and the interior access drives shall be at least twenty seven feet (27') in
width.
      2.   The mobile home park and/or travel trailer park and mobile home
subdivision shall be surrounded by a landscaped strip of open space ten feet
(10') wide along the street front with an arterial highway and ten feet (10')
wide along all other lines or street frontage. All internal streets shall be
constructed to specifications established by the board of commissioners in its
land subdivisions title of this code and shall be maintained by the owner or
agent free of cracks, holes and other hazards. Internal streets shall be
designed by a licensed professional engineer in accordance with good
engineering designs and shall be approved by the city engineer.
      3.   Off street parking spaces in mobile home or trailer parks shall be
provided and paved in concrete or two (2) course asphalt and shall be provided
in the ratio of one space per trailer in locations convenient to individual
trailers or groups of trailers. These parking spaces shall have minimum
dimensions of twelve feet (12') in width by twenty five feet (25') in length.
      4.   On all sections of internal streets on which parking is prohibited
under this chapter, the owner or agent shall erect metal signs prohibiting
parking. The sign type, size, height and location shall be approved by the
public works director prior to installation.
      5.   Internal streets, "no parking" area signs and street name signs
shall be privately owned, built and maintained. Streets shall be designed for
safe and convenient access to all spaces and to facilities for common use of
park residents.
      6.   Internal streets shall be kept open and free of obstruction in order
that police and fire vehicles may have access to any areas of the mobile home
or travel trailer park.
      7.   The police department shall be authorized to issue citations for the
violation of the provisions hereof and to remove and impound offending
vehicles.
   E.   Water And Sewers 1 : Proper provision shall be made for public water
supply, sanitary sewers, fire protection, solid waste collection, laundry,
toilet and bathing facilities, and all such provisions shall be in full
compliance with the department of public works and the city and/or state health
department.
   F.   Outside Lighting: Outside lighting shall be erected in such a manner
that it not be detrimental to or project onto adjacent properties.
   G.   Exposed Ground Surfaces: Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every
mobile home park shall be paved, covered with stone screening or other solid
material or protected with a vegetative growth that is capable of preventing
soil erosion and of eliminating dust.
   H.   Additional Construction: It shall be unlawful for any person operating
a mobile home and/or travel trailer park or occupying a mobile home or travel
trailer, whether in a conforming or nonconforming use, to construct or permit
to be constructed in such park or in connection with such mobile home or travel
trailer an additional structure, building or shelter in connection with or
attached to a mobile home or travel trailer; except, however, awnings of canvas
or metal, suitably constructed, may be attached to said mobile homes or travel
trailers as well as portable, prefabricated, temporary rooms commonly called
"cabanas", for the express purpose of increasing mobile home or travel trailer
living area, which meet the following requirements:
      1.   All metal only, fire resistive double wall, mechanical joint panels
(no welded joints between panels permitted);
      2.   Strength of materials and structures to meet minimum standards of
the city building code 2 ;
      3.   Capable of being dismantled when moved;
      4.   Such rooms shall be completely dismantled and removed from the site
at the time the mobile home or travel trailer to which it is accessory is
moved;
      5.   Finish the appearance to be as near the same as possible to the
mobile home or travel trailer to which it is an accessory;
      6.   The length must not exceed the length of the mobile home or travel
trailer to which it is an accessory; and
      7.   Only one such room per mobile home or travel trailer shall be
permitted.
   I.   Office Building: Each mobile home and/or travel trailer park shall be
provided with a building to be known as the office in which shall be kept
copies of all records pertaining to the management and supervision of the park
as well as all rules and regulations of the park, and such records, rules and
regulations shall be available for inspection by law enforcement officers,
public health official and other officials whose duties necessitate acquisition
of the information contained therein.
   J.   Exemption From Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not
apply to mobile home or trailer parks in existence and operation in compliance
with existing ordinances and laws at the time of approval which shall be
treated as nonconforming uses insofar as the requirements of this section are
concerned. (Ord. 648, 7-18-1978; amd. Ord. 153-12-24, 12-3-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this code.
1 1. See also section
  9-5-6 of this chapter.
2 2. See section
  9-1-1-1 of this title.
9-5-5: OPERATION OF MOBILE HOME PARK:
   A.   Maintenance: Every person owning or operating a mobile home and/or
travel trailer park shall maintain such park and any facilities, fixtures or
sanitary facilities and shall maintain said equipment and facilities in a state
of good repair.
   B.   Rules And Regulations For Park: It shall be the duty of the owner, his
agent, representative or manager to prescribe rules and regulations which may
be adopted by the city for the management of such park. Copies of all such
rules and regulations shall be furnished to the board of commissioners. In
addition thereto, it shall be the duty of the owner, his agent, representative
or manager to comply strictly with the following:
      1.   Provide for regular inspection of the water and sanitary
conveniences.
      2.   Provide for the collection and removal of garbage and other waste
material.
      3.   Prohibit the placing or storage of unsightly materials or vehicles
of any kind within the park.
      4.   Provide a list of all tenants living in the mobile home and/or
travel trailer park to the city for the appropriate city service charges. (Ord.
648, 7-18-1978)
9-5-6: FACILITIES AND SERVICES:
   A.   Water Supply, Sanitary Sewer And Solid Waste Collection: All mobile
homes are to be properly connected to a water, sewer and electrical system as
well as space provided for the collection of solid wastes, such facilities to
be approved by the city.
   B.   Fuel Supply And Storage: From the effective date hereof, the following
shall apply:
      1.   Bottled gas for cooking purposes shall not be used on individual
mobile homes or travel trailer lots unless the containers are properly
connected by copper or other suitable metallic tubing.
      2.   Bottled gas cylinders shall be securely fastened in place.
      3.   No cylinder containing bottled gas shall be located in a mobile home
or travel trailer or within five feet (5') of a door thereof.
      4.   State and local regulations applicable to the handling of bottled
gas and fuel oil must be followed.
      5.   Bottled gas cannot be used by mobile homes in a mobile home
subdivision.
      6.   Bottled gas cannot be used in a mobile home park in a nonconforming
use.
      7.   Bottles must be removed from trailer if natural gas is available.
      8.   In a mobile home or travel trailer subdivision, natural gas piping
systems shall be installed underground and maintained in accordance with
applicable codes and regulations governing such system.
      9.   Each mobile home space provided with piped gas shall have a cap on
the outlet when not in use, in accordance with the city plumbing code 1 , as
applicable.
      10.   Liquefied petroleum gas systems shall be installed only if an
available natural gas system is more than one thousand feet (1,000') from the
mobile home park.
      11.   The liquefied petroleum gas system shall be maintained in
accordance with the applicable codes of the City governing such systems and
regulations of the Texas Railroad Commission and/or Texas Utilities Commission
pertaining thereto. (Ord. 648, 7-18-78)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  9-1-1-5 of this title.
9-5-7: MOBILE HOME TIE-DOWN STANDARDS:
   A.   Findings of Fact: It has been determined by the Board of Commissioners
that, for the purpose of providing for safe living conditions in mobile homes
within the jurisdiction of the City and for the protection of the persons and
property adjoining such mobile homes, it has become necessary to adopt the
following standards requiring mobile home tie-downs.
   B.   House Bill 1193 Adopted: The Board of Commissioners hereby adopts and
incorporates herein House Bill 1193 concerning mobile home tie-down standards.
   C.   Application of Standards: The following standards for mobile home tie-
downs have taken into account probabilities of providing protection to mobile
homes from high winds. Mobile homes require two (2) types of anchorage. Over-
the-top tie-downs are required to restrict overturning and frame ties are
required to prevent the mobile home from being pushed off its piers. The
standards apply to single mobile homes up to fourteen feet (14') in width.
Double-wides do not require over-the-top ties but are subject to the same
requirements insofar as the number of frame ties per side is concerned. The
assumption is made that the ground on which the mobile home is situated will
support two thousand five hundred (2,500) pounds per square foot. Anchoring
specifications assume normal soil and that each anchor, when installed, will
hold at least four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pounds without failure.
   D.   Piers and Footings:
      1.   All piers shall be placed on footings of solid concrete with minimum
dimensions of sixteen inches by sixteen inches by four inches (16" x 16" x 4").
      2.   Piers shall be constructed of standard eight inch by eight inch by
sixteen inch (8" x 8" x 16") celled concrete.
      3.   Piers shall be topped with a solid concrete cap eight inches by
sixteen inches by four inches (8" x 16" x 4").
      4.   Treated shims shall be driven tight between the cap and the main
frame to provide uniform bearing. These shims shall be impervious to salt air
and to rot.
      5.   Other types of piers and foundations of equivalent permanence and
weight bearing ability may be approved. The use of a heavy metal adjustable
column, anchored to both frame and foundation may be used.
      6.   Piers shall be centered under each main frame (or chassis) member
with a maximum spacing of ten feet (10') on centers. The end piers shall be no
farther than five feet (5') from the ends of the mobile home.
   E.   Tie-Downs: Each mobile home shall be provided with over-the- top tie-
downs and frame ties as follows:
   TIE-DOWN ANCHORAGE REQUIREMENTS*
          10 and 12 Ft. Wide                        12 and 14 Ft. Wide
          Mobile Homes                              Mobile Homes
          30 - 50 Ft. Long     50 - 60 Ft. Long     60 - 70 Ft. Long
Wind                 No. of               No. of
Velocity  No. of     Over-the- No. of     Over-the- No. of Frame No. of Over-
Miles per Frame Ties top Ties  Frame Ties top Ties  Ties         the-top Ties
Hour
          10 and 12 Ft. Wide                        12 and 14 Ft. Wide
          Mobile Homes                              Mobile Homes
          30 - 50 Ft. Long     50 - 60 Ft. Long     60 - 70 Ft. Long
Wind                 No. of               No. of
Velocity  No. of     Over-the- No. of     Over-the- No. of Frame No. of Over-
Miles per Frame Ties top Ties  Frame Ties top Ties  Ties         the-top Ties
Hour
70        3          2         4          2         4            2
80        4          3         5          3         5            3
90        5          4         6          4         7            4
100       6          5         7          5         8            6
110       7          6         9          6         10           7
 
*Tie-down components utilized, including anchor systems, must be able to
withstand at least 4,800 pounds without failure.
      1.   Over-the-top tie-downs shall be positioned at stud and rafter
locations near each end of the mobile home. Others, if needed, may be
positioned between them.
      2.   Wherever feasible, over-the-top tie-downs and frame ties directly
beneath them may use the same anchors. Mobile homes with clerestory roofs are
particularly vulnerable to high winds. Over- the-top tie-downs at each end of
the clerestory section are required in addition to the anchorage presented in
the above table.
      3.   All ties shall be fastened to ground anchors as described in
subsection F of this Section and be drawn tight with galvanized turnbuckles or
with a yoke-type fastening and tensioning devices. Turnbuckles shall have a
capacity to withstand a four thousand eight hundred (4,800) pound tension
without failure and shall be ended with jaws or forged or welded eyes.
Turnbuckles with hook ends are not approved.
      4.   All cable ends shall be secured with at least two (2) U-bolt type
cable clamps or other fastening device as approved by the enforcing officials.
      5.   Cable used for this shall be of either galvanized steel or stainless
steel having a breaking strength greater than four thousand eight hundred
(4,800) pounds. Cable shall be either seven thirty-seconds inch (7/32")
diameter or greater, seven by seven (7 x 7) steel cable or one-fourth inch (1/
4") diameter or greater, seven by nineteen (7 x 19) aircraft cable.
      6.   When flat steel strapping is used, it must be in accordance with
Federal specification QQ-S-78I, i.e., one and one-fourth inch by thirty five
one-thousandths inch (11/4" x 0.035"), Type I, Class B Grade I, with breaking
strength at least four thousand seven hundred fifty (4,750) pounds.
      7.   Steel strapping used for ties must terminate with a D-ring, bolt or
other fastening device which will not cause distortion of the band or reduce
the breaking strength of the strapping.
      8.   Wherever feasible, care should be taken to evenly space the frame
ties and over-the-top tie-downs. They should not be bunched together.
      9.   Sharp edges of the mobile home that would tend to cut the cable or
strap over-the-top tie-downs must be protected by a suitable device which
prevents such cutting when the mobile home is buffeted by the wind. Likewise,
special adapters need to be installed to prevent the cable or strap from
knifing through the mobile home.
      10.   Connection of cable frame tie to the I-beam (or other shape) main
structural frame member should be by a five-eighths inch (5/8") drop forged
closed eye, bolted through a hole drilled through the center of the I-beam. A
washer, or equivalent, should be used so that the beam is sufficiently fish-
plated around the hole. If steel strapping is used, care should be exercised to
insure that minimum bending radius is adhered to so that the breaking strength
of the strapping is not reduced.
      11.   Frame ties should be the connection between the anchor and the
steel I-beam (or other shape) main structural frame member which runs
lengthwise beneath the mobile home. Frame ties should never be connected to any
of the steel outrigger beams which fasten to and intersect the main I-beams at
right angles. The outriggers do not have adequate structural strength to resist
the frame tie loadings.
   F.   Anchors:
      1.   Ground anchors should be aligned so that they are close to a pier.
They should also be situated immediately below the outer wall to also
accommodate over-the-top ties as well as frame ties.
      2.   Anchors shall be capable of withstanding four thousand eight hundred
(4,800) pounds of pull in a vertical or diagonal direction without failure.
      3.   Augers shall have a minimum diameter of six inches (6") (arrowheads
8 inches) and be sunk to a depth of at least four feet (4'). Steel rods shall
be at least five-eighths inch (5/8") in diameter with a forged or welded eye at
top or with a yoke- type fastening and tensioning device.
      4.   Deadman anchors shall be sunk to a depth of five feet (5') and have
a minimum length of two feet (2') and a diameter of at least six inches (6").
Celled concrete blocks are not approved. Solid steel rods shall be at least
five-eighths inch (5/8") in diameter with the bottom hooked in the concrete
deadman.
      5.   Anchors to reinforced concrete slabs must be of strength comparable
to that presented above. (Ord. 604, 4-20-76)
9-5-8: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person violating this Chapter or any portion thereof shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code per each day that such violation continues. Each violation
shall be considered a separate offense and punishable accordingly. (Ord. 648,
7-18-78; 1994 Code)
CHAPTER 6
LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Applicability; Exceptions
9-6-2: Compliance Requirements
9-6-3: Residential Use Landscaping
9-6-4: Nonresidential Use Landscaping
9-6-5: Nonresidential Use Landscaping In Parking Lots
9-6-6: Nonresidential Use Lighting Requirements
9-6-7: Accessory Structure Screening
9-6-8: Tree Preservation
9-6-9: Landscape Plan And Deviations
9-6-10: Design Planting And Criteria
9-6-11: Preferred Landscape Materials
9-6-12: Landscape Irrigation Requirements
9-6-1: APPLICABILITY; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   The landscaping requirements of this chapter apply to any premises on
which construction occurs for which a building permit is required, except as
follows:
      1.   The remodeling of the interior of a building or the facade of a
building that does not alter the location of exterior walls; or
      2.   The expansion or remodeling of a single-family dwelling; or
      3.   The moving in of a mobile home or similar modular structure; or
      4.   Permits for accessory structures such as for storage sheds,
carports, driveways, or other similar improvement(s). (Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-
2015)
9-6-2: COMPLIANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All landscaping requirements of this chapter, including the
requirements contained in an approved landscaped plan, must be met prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy and/or prior to the issuance of a
business license (permit) for any premises to which these regulations apply. If
weather conditions, or similar circumstances delay compliance, the planning
director, with approval from the city manager's office, may grant a temporary
certificate of occupancy if the owner or owner's agent enters into a signed
agreement with the city to fully comply with the landscaping requirements
within a specified time, not to exceed sixty (60) calendar days.
   B.   All landscaping required to be planted must, after installation, be
maintained in a good and healthy condition. An organized method of irrigating
the landscaped improvements in nonresidential premises may be required as part
of the improvements during the building permit process. If the required
landscaping becomes diseased, deteriorated, or dies, the owner, agent, and/or
operator of the premises must replace the landscaped improvements within sixty
(60) calendar days of written notice from the city of Alamo.
   C.   All fences required by these regulations must be maintained by the
owner in good working condition so that there are no damaged or missing boards,
planks, or parts, all structural supports are sound and sufficient to maintain
the fence in an upright condition, and any surface treatment, including paint
or stucco, is substantially maintained in its original appearance to be free
from graffiti, noticeable cracking, discoloration, or similar surface defects.
   D.   All multi-family residential uses shall provide a minimum of ten
percent (10%) of the entire site to be devoted to living landscape which shall
include grass, ground cover, plants, shrubs, or trees. All nonresidential uses
shall provide a minimum of five percent (5%) which may include the required
drainage retention on the lot. (Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015)
9-6-3: RESIDENTIAL USE LANDSCAPING:
   A.   For any premises located in a zoning classification of single- family
residential (R-1), said property shall have one shade or ornamental tree
typically located within fifteen feet (15') of the front lot line for each
sixty feet (60') of lot width or portion thereof. Trees may be semiclustered or
spaced linearly and do not need to be planted evenly. If a tree is being
proposed other than a shade or ornamental tree listed in section
9-6-11 of this chapter, the owner shall provide two (2) trees for every one
shade or ornamental tree required.
   B.   For any premises located in a zoning classification of multi-family
residential (R-2), said property shall have:
      1.   One shade or ornamental tree for every two (2) units (apartments/
condos) located predominantly within the front yard setback. If a tree is being
proposed other than a shade or ornamental tree listed in section
9-6-11 of this chapter, the owner shall provide two (2) trees for every one
shade or ornamental tree required.
      2.   All other portions of the front yard which are not improved, must be
landscaped prior to occupancy, and perpetually maintained after occupancy.
      3.   The paved parking area for multi-family residential uses within a
front yard or corner side yard shall provide a five foot (5') to eight foot
(8') wide landscaped area located between the parking lot and the lots’ front
or corner side’s private property line(s).
      4.   The parking area for multi-family residential uses is to be
landscaped similar to the requirements of section
9-6-5 of this chapter.
(Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 101-6-24, 6-4-2024)
9-6-4: NONRESIDENTIAL USE LANDSCAPING:
   A.   The premises must have one shade or ornamental tree located in the
front yard for each thirty feet (30') of lot width, or portion thereof,
measured along the front lot line. However, if the nonresidential use is a
school, church, hospital, or government facility, the premises must contain one
shade or ornamental tree for every fifty feet (50') of lot width, or portion
thereof. The shade trees may be clustered or spaced linearly and do not need to
be placed evenly.
   B.   If a nonresidential use abuts residentially used properties, the
nonresidential premises must install an opaque screen fence at least six feet
(6') in height located along the abutting lot line (see subsection 9-6-7A of
this chapter for allowable fence types). Tapering of the buffer may be required
by the city as said buffer approaches the street in order to maximize
visibility, if needed. A buffer fence may not be required if an approved fence
is already existing on the abutting residential property.
   C.   All portions of the ground located in the front yard or street side
yard which are not covered by driveways, parking lots, and similar permanent
improvements, shall be landscaped/sodded.
   D.   Unless the nonresidential structure is built and has an existing zero
side yard via prevailing building and zoning setbacks, or unless the lot's
unique configuration would induce minimal adjustment, then all side yards must
contain a minimum three foot (3') wide landscaped area extending from the front
lot line to the rear lot line. (Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015)
9-6-5: NONRESIDENTIAL USE LANDSCAPING IN PARKING LOTS:
   A.   Nonresidential premises used for a parking lot within a front yard or
street side yard shall provide an eight (8) to ten foot (10') wide landscaped
area located between all portions of the parking lot, including vehicle use
area, and the public street. The landscaped area shall have a continuous hedge,
fence, or berm of a minimum height of three feet (3') to aesthetically screen
the parking lot and vehicle use area from the public street. The remainder of
the landscaped area shall contain plants, grass, or ground cover. All other
portions of the front yard lying between the parking lot and front lot line
which are not improved, must be landscaped, too.
   B.   Nonresidential premises that contain a parking lot or vehicle use area
in a side or rear yard that abut residentially zoned/used properties, must have
a continuous hedge, fence or berm with a minimum height of eight feet (8') as a
visual buffer. The area to be screened must also contain at least one 3-inch
caliper shade tree for each fifty (50) linear feet of landscaping or screening,
or portion thereof.
   C.   Nonresidential premises that contain a parking lot or vehicle use area
in a side or rear yard that abut other nonresidentially zoned/used properties
that are not interfaced or planned to be interfaced, shall have a screen of
hedges, fences or berms, of a minimum height of three feet (3'), located
between the parking lot and the side or rear lot line, so as to provide
screening for at least twenty five percent (25%) of the parking lot and vehicle
use area. The required screening may be grouped and need not be spaced evenly.
The area required to be screened must also contain a minimum of one 3-inch
caliper shade tree for each fifty (50) linear feet of screened area, or portion
thereof.
   D.   All plants used to satisfy the requirements of this section shall be
located in landscaped areas that are least 2.5 feet in width.
   E.   Each required shade or ornamental tree must be planted in a landscaped
area of at least thirty (30) square feet.
   F.   Any nonresidential parking lot with more than ten (10) parking spaces
shall provide a minimum one hundred sixty two (162) square feet of landscaping
for each twenty (20) parking spaces, or fraction thereof. Landscaped islands,
medians, and peninsulas shall be a minimum of six feet (6') in width, and be
dispersed throughout the parking lot. A minimum of one shade or ornamental tree
shall be provided for each required landscaped island, median, and peninsula.
The remaining area or island must be landscaped with plants, not exceeding
three feet (3') in height.
   G.   Landscaped islands, medians and peninsulas within the nonresidential
parking lots shall be protected from vehicle intrusion by curbs or similar
structures and shall be irrigated. (Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015)
9-6-6: NONRESIDENTIAL USE LIGHTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   All exterior lighting shall be regulated to eliminate light spillover
and glare on motor vehicle operators, pedestrians, and land uses within the
light source's proximity. Safety considerations are the basis of the following
regulations, especially with respect to motor vehicles. In other cases, the
regulations protect against both nuisance and hazard aspects of glare or excess
light.
   B.   Any time exterior lighting is installed or substantially modified and
whenever a building permit is sought, an exterior lighting plan shall be
submitted to the planning director to determine whether the lighting
requirements have been met and that adjoining property will not be adversely
impacted by the proposed lighting. The lighting plan shall indicate the types
and heights of luminaires to be used and submit an illumination level plan
showing the illumination at ten foot (10') intervals.
   C.   There are two (2) types of nonresidential lighting sources available
(see figure A, "Types Of Light Sources Or Luminaires", of this section). One is
a fixture having no cutoff, directing the light to limit view of the light
source or luminaire. The second is a cutoff fixture, shielding the light source
from view. The maximum permitted illumination and the maximum permitted
luminaire height shall conform with this section. All nonresidential property
shall meet the following lighting standards:
   FIGURE A
   TYPES OF LIGHT SOURCES OR LUMINAIRES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7428a78b5d7031fb0348050f36d91c2fa0cae1bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.png]
 
   D.   All fixtures shall be "cutoff" fixtures that limit lighting that is
visible or measurable at the property line. "No cutoff" fixtures may be used
only for decorative purposes, provided:
      1.   They have luminaires that produce no more than one thousand five
hundred (1,500) lumens (approximately equal to a 100W incandescent bulb);
      2.   They have a maximum height of fifteen feet (15'); and
      3.   They use energy efficient bulbs, such as compact fluorescent (CF).
   E.   If abutting or nearby properties zoned for residential use, cutoff
fixtures shall be used so that the light source cannot be seen from the
residential property, except as provided in subsection D of this section.
   F.   The maximum illumination at a property line abutting or across the
street from residential zoning shall not exceed two-tenths (2/10) foot-candle.
On abutting nonresidential properties or public streets, the maximum
illumination at the property line shall not exceed five (5) foot-candles.
   G.   The maximum illumination at any point on the property shall not exceed
sixty (60) foot-candles. If additional light is necessary, it shall be provided
within an enclosed structure.
   H.   Canopy lighting for uses that have sheltered outside work or service
areas, such as gas stations, shall not exceed the maximum intensity of
subsection G of this section. The luminaires shall be recessed into the canopy
so they cannot be viewed from off site from an eye height of four feet (4') to
protect automobile drivers from glare.
   I.   Outside wall mounted lighting shall also comply with the standards of
this chapter, except that lighting that is required by the federal aviation
administration shall comply with federal standards.
   J.   Shielded spots shall be screened by evergreen landscaping, walls,
berms, or cutoff shielding so the light source is not visible off site. In most
cases, a combination of cutoff shielding and a landscape or other feature will
be needed to provide the necessary screening. Figure B, "Shielded Spots", of
this section provides an example of how this objective is to be accomplished.
   FIGURE B
   SHIELDED SPOTS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7428a78b5d7031fb0348050f36d91c2fa0cae1bf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1798.png]
 
   K.   The city may require the modification or removal or limited operation
of existing or new lighting fixtures found to be a public hazard or public
nuisance according to the following criteria:
      1.   Light trespass or glare which is sufficiently intense or contrasts
excessively with surrounding illumination, regardless of the intensity of the
surrounding illumination, in a manner to cause impairment of visual performance
or to distract from or impair the safe operation of a vehicle.
      2.   Light trespass or glare that impairs a person's visual performance
or ability to avoid obstacles in their path.
      3.   Light trespass or glare that deprives an owner or occupant of usual
and reasonable use and enjoyment of a property.
      4.   A high frequency and/or duration of periods when light trespass or
glare is sufficient to interrupt or interfere with usual and reasonable use and
enjoyment of a property.
      5.   Light trespass or glare that causes visual discomfort or impairment
of visual performance in a manner that deprives any person from the usual and
reasonable enjoyment of the public streets and properties of the city. (Ord.
09-04-15, 4-21-2015)
9-6-7: ACCESSORY STRUCTURE SCREENING:
   A.   The following landscape and screening requirements shall apply to
premises when used for multi-family, mobile home parks with community dumpster
service or nonresidential uses:
      1.   Common areas with dumpster garbage bins used to dispose and contain
trash and other refuse shall be screened from the general public’s view
pursuant to the terms outlined in Section 4-3-3, i.e., garbage dumpster bin
shall be entirely buffered with a minimum six feet (6') high opaque fence/wall;
and equipped with opaque doors constructed of either wood or metal or other
viable screen material that is durable and aesthetic. This provision shall also
apply to existing dumpster bin users, regardless of pre-existing tenure, should
there be a health risk to the public.
      2.   Exterior ground mounted equipment, including mechanical equipment,
utility meter banks, and heating/cooling equipment, must be screened from the
general public's view with landscaping of sufficient height to satisfy the
intent of this regulation with perpetual maintenance to be incidentally
accomplished to retain such screened effect.
      3.   All rooftop equipment must be screened from the general public's
view with an architectural treatment which is compatible with the building's
architecture. The methods of screening rooftop equipment include the use of
parapet walls, and the encasement of partition screens.
      4.   All materials, products, or equipment which are stored outside of a
fully enclosed building, other than for display (sales) purposes, must be
entirely screened from the general public's view.
      5.   For the purposes of this specific section, "screened from the
general public's view" means not visible at eye level from any point on the lot
line of the abutting premises or from any point on the adjoining street.
(Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015; amd. Ord. 79-2-24, 2-6-2024)
9-6-8: TREE PRESERVATION:
   A.   The landscape plan must identify the location of all existing shade or
ornamental trees with a caliper equal to or greater than six inches (6"),
reflecting which are to be preserved and which will be removed.
   B.   The landscape plan must be designed whenever reasonably possible to
preserve existing shade trees. The city's planning director may approve a
landscape plan that provides for the removal of existing shade trees where it
is determined that the development cannot reasonably preserve the shade trees.
For each existing shade tree or ornamental tree that is preserved, the owner
may receive credit for two (2) such trees that are otherwise required to be
planted to comply with these regulations. However, if there are no trees
"preserved" in the front yard area or front parking lot area, then sections
9-6-4 and
9-6-5 of this chapter shall remain in full force to still be complied with.
   C.   If the planning director approves the removal of an existing shade or
ornamental tree, the landscape plan shall provide for the replacement of
equivalent tree calipers; i.e., if a ten inch (10") caliper tree is removed,
then a total of ten inch (10") calipers must be replaced.
   D.   Whenever one or more existing shade or ornamental trees, or existing
shrubs provide an effective and desirable buffer or screen, the planning
director may require that the existing trees, shrubs, or portions thereof, be
preserved if the preservation can be accomplished without undue interference
with the development. The planning director will credit any existing shade or
ornamental trees, or shrubs which are preserved against any requirements for
shade trees, shrubs, or screening as provided in these regulations, if the
preserved shade or ornamental tree or shrubs substantially serve the purpose of
the landscape requirements.
   E.   In some instances the removal of tree calipers is so great that the
number of trees needed would surpass the minimum required by this code. In such
cases, the owner may dedicate the additional trees to the city for use on city
properties. (Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015)
9-6-9: LANDSCAPE PLAN AND DEVIATIONS:
   A.   For any premises to be developed for multi-family residential or
nonresidential use, a landscape plan must be submitted to the city showing how
the requirements of these regulations are to be met. If the plan meets the
regulations, the planning director may approve the landscape plan.
   B.   Where improvements are proposed to a developed premises devoted to a
nonresidential use that was developed prior to the effective date hereof and
does not meet the landscaping requirements of this chapter, the planning
director may approve a landscape plan with deviations from the requirements of
this chapter or impose alternative requirements that serve the purpose and
intent of this chapter, if the requirements of this chapter cannot be
reasonably complied with because of the existing developed conditions.
   C.   In approving a landscape plan, the planning director may allow or
require minor deviations from the requirements of this chapter whenever a
literal application of a requirement to a premises that would, because of
unusual circumstances or situations not generally common to other premises, not
achieve the purposes or intent of the regulation or cause an undesired result.
(Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015)
9-6-10: DESIGN PLANTING AND CRITERIA:
   A.   Any tree, shrub, plant, fence, or screen installed to satisfy the
requirements of this chapter must meet the following requirements:
      1.   Trees must be a minimum of seven feet (7') in overall height
immediately after planting and must be a minimum of three inches (3") caliper.
Trees having an average mature crown spread of less than fifteen feet (15') in
diameter may be grouped in sufficient number so as to create the equivalent of
a fifteen foot (15') crown spread. Any trees or plants used to meet the
requirements of these regulations are recommended to be one of the preferred
trees or plants listed in section 9-6-11 of this chapter.
      2.   If residential or nonresidential property owners wish to use palms
instead of the trees on the list, the property owners shall provide two (2)
palm trees for every one shade or ornamental tree required by this code.
      3.   Shrubs must have a minimum of two feet (2') in height when measured
immediately after planting. When used for screening purposes, the shrubs must
not be separated by more than two and one-half feet (21/2'). Whenever hedges
are used to meet a screening requirement, the plants must be planted and
maintained so as to form a continuous, unbroken, solid, visual screen within
one year of planting.
      4.   Vines must be a minimum of thirty inches (30") in height immediately
after planting and may be used in conjunction with fences to meet physical
barrier/buffer requirements. Any buffer fence installed to meet the
requirements of these regulations must, unless otherwise specified, be
constructed of wood, stone, brick, masonry, stucco, or concrete.
      5.   Ground covers used in place of grass, in whole or in part, must be
planted to present a finished appearance and reasonable complete coverage
within three (3) months after planting.
      6.   Grass must be of a species normally grown as permanent lawns in the
Texas Rio Grande Valley region.
      7.   Earthen berms shall have side slopes not to exceed three to one (3:
1) (3 feet of horizontal distance for each 1 foot of height). All berms shall
contain necessary drainage provisions, as may be required by the project/city
engineer.
      8.   Solid sod must be used to provide coverage and soil stabilization in
swales or other areas subject to erosion.
      9.   Detention and retention basins and ponds must be landscaped with
shade and ornamental trees, shrubbery, hedges, or other plants.
      10.   Indigenous and drought resistant plant material should be used, but
if not used, an irrigation system shall be installed or a watering source made
readily available within one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015)
9-6-11: PREFERRED LANDSCAPE MATERIALS:
   A.   Preferred trees and shrubs to be used to meet the city landscaping
standards include, but are not specifically restricted to:
Plant Type Botanical Name Common Name
Plant Type             Botanical Name           Common Name
                       Celtis laevigata         Sugar hackberry; palo blanco
                       Ehretia anacua           Sugarberry; anacua
                       Fraxinum berlandieriana  Rio grande ash; fresno
Shade trees            Leucaena pulverulenta    Lead tree; tepeguaje
                       Pithecellobium ebano     Texas ebony; ebano
                       Prospis glandulosa       Honey mesquite
                       Quercus virginiana       Live oak; encino
                       Ulmus crassifolia        Cedar elm; olmo
                       Acacia berlandieri       Guajillo
                       Acacia smallii           Texas huisache
                       Bumelia celastrina       Saffron-plum; coma del sur
                       Celtis pallida           Spiny hackberry; granjeno
                       Cercidium texanum        Texas palo verde
                       Condalia hookeri         Brasil; bluewood
                       Cordia boissieeri        Mexican olive; anacahuita
Ornamental trees       Diospyros texana         Persimmon; chapote
                       Esenbeckia runyonii      Jopoy
                       Guaiacum angustifolium   Soapbush; guayacan
                       Lagerstroemia indica     Crepe myrtle
                       Parkinsonia aculeata     Retama; lluvia de oro
                       Pithecellobium pallens   Tenaza
                       Sapindus drummondii      West soapberry; jabonciilo
                       Sophora secundiflora     Mountain laurel
                       Acacia rigidula          Black brush
                       Citherexylum berlandieri Fiddlewood; tamaulipan
Screening shrubs       Leucophyllum frutescens  Purple sage; cenizo
                                                bouganvillea
                       Photinia fraseri         Oleander
                       Xylosma flexuosa         Holly; coronillo
                       Coursetia axillaris      Texas baby-bonnets
                       Croton humilis           Low croton
                       Malpighia glabra         Manzanita
Mass planting shrubs   Salvia ballotiflora      Blue sage; mejorana
                       Schaefferia cuneifola    Desert yaupon; capul
                       Sophora tomentosa        Yellow sophora; tambalisa
                       Viguiera stenoloba       Skeletonbush
                       Buchloe dactyloides      Buffalo grass verbena
Ground cover plantings Lantana horrida          Texas lantana
                       Ruellia corzoi           Ruellia
Vines                  Passiflora filipes       Yellow passion vine
                       Passiflora foetida       Blue passion vine
 
(Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015)
9-6-12: LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Definitions:
   IRRIGATION SYSTEM: An assembly of component parts that is permanently
installed for the controlled distribution and conservation of water to irrigate
any type of landscape vegetation in any location, and/or to reduce dust or
control erosion.
   IRRIGATOR: A person who sells, designs, consults, installs, maintains,
alters, repairs, supervises installations or services an irrigation system,
including the connection of such system in and to a private or public, raw or
potable water supply system or any water supply.
   B.   License Requirements For Landscape Irrigators And Permitting
Requirements:
      1.   Securing Permits: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation who is not licensed by TCEQ as an irrigator to secure permits as
provided herein. The irrigator shall furnish the name or names of persons who
are authorized to sign permit applications and shall maintain it as updated as
possible.
      2.   Landscape Irrigation Permits:
         a.   A permit is required for landscape irrigation systems installed
within the city limits and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of
Alamo.
         b.   It shall be the duty of the irrigator to ensure that the
installation of landscape irrigation systems conform to the minimum prevailing
standards and specifications set forth by TCEQ.
         c.   The applicant must provide a copy of their irrigator's license,
Texas driver's license and a copy of their liability insurance, prior to
receiving a permit to install a landscape irrigation system.
         d.   A permit fee of one percent (1%) of the total cost or sixty six
dollars ($66.00), whichever is greater, shall be required for the inspection
and administering of the landscape irrigation requirements as allowed under HB
1656.
         e.   The requirements under this section do not apply to:
            (1)   On site sewage disposal systems;
            (2)   An irrigation system used on or by an agricultural operation;
            (3)   Or connected to a groundwater well used by the property owner
for domestic use. (Ord. 09-04-15, 4-21-2015)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ZONING PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Interpretation
10-1-4: Future Land Use Map
10-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known and may be cited as the ZONING TITLE OF THE CITY.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations and districts as herein established have been made in
accordance with a Comprehensive Plan for the purpose of promoting health,
safety, morals and the general welfare of the City. They have been designed to
lessen the congestion in the streets; to secure safety from fire, panic or
other dangers; to provide adequate light and air; to prevent the overcrossing
of land; to avoid concentration of population; to facilitate the adequate
provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks and other public
requirements. They have been made with reasonable consideration, among other
things, to the character of the district and its peculiar suitability for
particular uses and with a view to conserving the value of buildings and
encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the City. (Ord. 95-04-
04, 4-4-1995)
10-1-3: INTERPRETATION:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements of the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this Title to interfere with or abrogate or annul any ordinance,
rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued and not in conflict
with any of the provisions of this Title or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises and likewise not
in conflict with this Title, nor is it intended by this Title to interfere
with, abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties except, that if this Title imposes a greater restitution, this Title
shall control. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-1-4: FUTURE LAND USE MAP:
   A.   Through the public hearing and advisory board process, the City of
Alamo has legislatively approved the Future Land Use Map (FLUM) in its efforts
to collectively discern and determine the short and long range land use vision
of its jurisdictional properties. It is intended to alert the general public,
current and prospective property owners, business owners, developers,
engineers, land use consultants, and other economic development agents of what
the general development patterns are, or will be, for Alamo properties. The
FLUM is universally recognized as a vital mechanism in Alamo’s desired
direction of planned development. It is also declared that the land use
designations are broad land use parameters that may not necessarily coincide
with a property’s zoning district. It is expected that, heretofore, the FLUM
will be intermittently updated no more than every five (5) years from date of
last approval. The updating process will always activate the public hearing
process.
   B.   The FLUM reflects acronyms to depict land use designations. These
acronyms are shown below, though others may be added hereafter with officially
recognizing any new designations during the five (5) year updating cycle
through adoption of an amending ordinance:
LD Low Density Residential; typical single-family residential uses
MD Moderate Density Residential; typically duplexes and fourplexes; also
   townhomes, and some mobile home developments
HD High Density Residential; apartments
GC General Commercial; retail; general and personal businesses
HC Heavy Commercial; heavy equipment sales; usually requires large outdoor
   storage areas; usually fronts railroads and major thoroughfares
I  Industrial; manufacturing and industrial uses; personnel uses shifts; also
   inclined to be next to railroads and major thoroughfares
P  Public; city/county/state properties; public parks; schools; religious
   institutions
NC Neighborhood Commercial; convenience stores; commercial suites serving
   surrounding residential region
 
   C.   Should there be any existing regulation, measure, restriction, or other
regulatory criteria that may be in conflict with the terms legislated herein,
then the provisions of this section shall govern, and will supersede all
conflicting regulation(s).
   D.   As it relates to this section, should there be any regulation, section,
measure, restriction, or other regulatory criteria that may be deemed
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, then all remaining
provisions shall remain in full force and effect, and shall not impair its
validity to be uniformly enforced thereby. (Ord. 17-04-21, - -2021)
CHAPTER 2
ZONING RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Word Construction
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: WORD CONSTRUCTION:
Words used in the present tense shall include the future; the singular number
shall include the plural and the plural the singular. The word "building" shall
include the word "structure"; the word "lot" includes the word "plot"; and the
word "shall" is mandatory and not merely permissive or directory. (Ord. 95-04-
04, 4-4-1995)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Title, certain terms and words are hereby defined as
follows:
   ACCESSORY BUILDING AND USE: A subordinate building or portion of the main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or to the
main use of the premises. An accessory use is one which is incidental to the
main use of the premises.
   ALLEY: A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means
of access to property abutting thereon.
   APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple dwelling or in a building
in which more than one living unit is established above or on the same floor as
a residence by one family and which includes culinary accommodations.
   APARTMENT HOUSE: A building or portion thereof used or designed as a
residence for three (3) or more families living independently of each other and
doing their own cooking in said building, including apartments and hotels.
   BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY: An owner-occupied private home which offers
lodging for paying guests, and which serves meals only to those guests. One
paved off-street parking space per available room shall be required.
   BOARDING HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three (3) or more persons but not exceeding twenty (20) persons.
   BUILDING: Any structure built on the property designed or intended for the
support, enclosure, shelter or protection of persons, animals, chattels or
property.
   CLINIC: Any office or group of offices for one or more physicians, surgeons
or dentists engaged in treating the sick or injured.
COMMERCIAL CORRIDOR - RESTRICTED USE: The properties having front and/or corner
street frontage to commercial corridors of the City of Alamo. Texas; said
corridors are the following major streets and thoroughfares: Interstate 2 (U.S.
Expressway 83), SH 495, U.S. Business High 83, Alamo Road (F.M. 907), Tower
Road, Cesar Chavez Road. It is prohibited to have any car wash operation (of
any varying level), or any mobile food vendor/mobile food court or even a
retail 'Dollar' type store along the commercial corridor as described herein'
however, any such businesses that may currently exist may continue to do so but
shall not be permitted to expand or be replaced. Furthermore, this restriction
may not apply to temporary mobile food vendors that are part of civic or
charitable event(s).
   CONDOMINIUM: A single dwelling unit within the structural boundaries of a
larger building that has adjoining similar dwelling units; where said units may
be conveyed fee simple title to different individual parties, with an
individual interest in the building’s common elements, to include but not be
limited to, the property upon which said structure is built on, off-street
parking spaces, stairways, elevators, recreational amenities and other such
common areas. Such a condominium regime is a private entity, and will have
private covenants, conditions and restrictions (CCRs) recorded in the County’s
deed records.
   DISTRICT: A section or sections of the City of Alamo, Texas, for which
regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of
buildings, the size of yards and the intensity of use are uniform.
   DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is designed and used
exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building having accommodations for and occupied by
more than two (2) families and living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY OR DUPLEX: A building having accommodations for and
occupied by two (2) families and living independently of each other.
   FAMILY: One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a "boarding house",
"lodging house" or "hotel" as herein defined.
   FILLING STATION OR SERVICE STATION: Any building or premises used for the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels or
oils. When the dispensing, selling or offering for sale is incidental to the
conduct of a public garage or retail store.
   FRONTAGE: All the property on one side of a street between two (2)
intersecting streets (crossing or terminated), measured along the line of the
street, or if the street is dead ended, then all the property abutting on one
side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or portion of the main used building,
designated for or used for the housing of motor driven vehicles which are the
property of and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which the
private garage is located. Not more than one of the vehicles may be a
commercial vehicle and of not more than two (2) tons' capacity.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for equipping, repairing, hiring, servicing, selling or
storing motor driven vehicles.
   HOME OCCUPATION: A non-residential/commercial use, whereby a resident member
of the immediate family conducts the approved activity, and that must meet the
controlling and monitoring provisions of Title 10, Chapter 13 - Conditional Use
Permits,
10-13-8 (A) (1) (a thru j).
   HOTEL: A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all hours. As such, it is open to the public in contradistinction
to a "boarding house", a "lodging house" or an "apartment" which are herein
defined.
   LODGING HOUSE: A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped to provide lodging regularly) by prearrangement for definite periods
for compensation, for three (3) or more persons in contradistinction to hotels
open to transients.
   LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted
in this title and having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an
officially approved place.
   LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their
intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   NONCONFORMING USE: Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use, at the
effective date hereof or amendment hereto, which does not conform with the use
regulations of the district in which it is situated.
   PARKING SPACE: An area enclosed or unenclosed containing not less than one
hundred eighty (180) square feet inclusive of the driveways connecting said
space with a street or alley. Said parking space and connecting driveway shall
be durably surfaced and so arranged to permit satisfactory ingress and egress
of an automobile.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS SERVICE FACILITY: A structure for the provision of
personal wireless services, excluding ham radios, such as antennas, towers,
poles and equipment buildings.
   STORY: That portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or if there
be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next
above it.
   STREET: A public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground, including, but without limiting the general
inclusiveness of the foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, posterboards and
pergolas.
   STRUCTURE ALTERATIONS: Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders or any complete
rebuilding of the roof or the exterior walls.
   TOURIST CAMP (AUTO COURTS, MOTELS OR MOTOR LODGES): A group of attached,
semidetached buildings containing individual sleeping or living units, designed
for or used temporarily by automobile tourists or transients, with garages
attached for parking space conveniently located to each unit and offering the
public daily, as well as other longer term, rental rates and maintaining a
register of guests and/or their vehicles.
   TOWNHOUSE: A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a series, or a group
of units having common (fire-rated) walls, but each unit to be on a distinct
and separately recorded ‘Lot’; thus, the dwelling unit and real property can be
separately conveyed fee simple title to different parties.
   TOWNHOUSE CONDOMINIUM: A single dwelling unit, meeting the townhouse
construction requirements within which designated dwelling units are separately
conveyed fee simple title to different parties, with an individual interest in
a buildings’ common areas, off-street parking spaces, and/or the land upon
which the building is constructed on.
   TRAILER: Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage
purposes having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses
or skirtings and which is, has been or reasonably may be equipped with wheels
or other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means. The term "trailer" shall include camp car and
house car. For the purposes of this title, a trailer is not a single-family
dwelling.
   TRAILER OR MOBILE HOME CAMP, TRAILER COACH OR MOBILE HOME PARK 1 : A lot or
tract of land where facilities and accommodations are provided by the day,
week, month or for a longer period of time for or without compensation for one
or more trailers when such trailers or mobile homes are being used for human
habitation.
   VENDORS MARKET: A CUP-approved location that may be used as a recurring
event whereby vendors may sell only fresh food items to the general public. A
bona fide vendors market will not include non-food items that may be seen as a
‘flea market’ effect.
   YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or the depth of a rear
yard, the minimum distance between the lot line and the main building shall be
used.
   YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line
and the main building or any projections thereof other than the projection of
the usual steps, unenclosed balconies or open porch.
   YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the
side of a lot's lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the
rear lot line and the rear of the main building or any projections other than
steps, unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the rear
yards generally shall be considered as parallel to the street upon which the
lot has its least dimension.
   YARD, SIDE: A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot
and extending from the front lot line to the rear yard line.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 5-16-00, 5-16-2000; Ord. 04-01-21, 1-19-
2021; Ord. 22-04-23, 4-4-2023; Ord. 63-11-2023, 11-6-2023; Ord. 73-1-24, 1-2-
2024; Ord. 155-12-24, 12-17-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 9, chapter 5 of this code.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL ZONING PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
10-3-1: Height Regulations
10-3-2: Area And Density Regulations
10-3-3: Yard Space
10-3-4: Annexed Territory
10-3-4-1: De-Annexation Process
10-3-5: General Conformance To Provisions
10-3-6: Vehicle Parking
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-9-2 of this Code for location of sexually oriented businesses.
10-3-1: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   A.   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, hospitals, institutions
or schools, when permitted in a district, may be erected to a height not
exceeding sixty feet (60') and churches and temples may be erected to a height
not exceeding seventy five feet (75') if the building is set back from each
yard line at least one foot (1') for each two feet (2') additional height above
the height limit otherwise provided in the district in which the building is
located.
   B.   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, grain
elevators, flour mills, monuments, stacks or scenery lofts, tanks, water
towers, ornamental towers and spired church steeples, radio or television
towers or necessary mechanical appurtenances may be erected to a height in
accordance with existing or hereafter adopted ordinances of the City; provided,
that in the absence of any such ordinance there shall be no height limitation
of these structures. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-3-2: AREA AND DENSITY REGULATIONS:
   A.   Single Use Of Required Yard Space: No yard or other open space provided
about any building for the purposes of complying with the provisions of these
regulations shall again be used as a yard or an open space for another
building.
   B.   Sky Space: Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky and
unobstructed by buildings, except for accessory buildings in the rear yard and
except the ordinary projections of skylights, sills, belt courses, cornices and
other ornamental features which may project into such yards a distance of not
more than two feet (2'). Furthermore, regarding residential buildings and
residential accessory structures, it is declared that a maximum of a two-foot
(2') roof overhang shall exist when such structure(s) are five feet (5') to the
side property’s boundary (as it adjoins other private properties). The intended
effect is that a roof overhang’s furthest edge shall not be less than three
feet (3') to any other private property. A longer roof overhang may be
permitted if structurally sound, and if its’ furthest edge is further than the
minimum three feet (3') to the adjoining property. Finally, any previous action
by the City that may have been applied in the past to this effect is hereby
retroactively approved, and thus moot.
   C.   Porches And Platforms: Open, unenclosed porches, platforms or landing
places not covered by a roof or canopy may extend or project into front yards.
   D.   Vision Clearance: On any corner lot on which a front or side yard is
required, no wall, fence, sign or other structure or any plant growth shall be
permitted or maintained higher than two feet (2') above the curb level within
fifteen feet (15') of the property lines.
   E.   Minimum Square Footage: The minimum living area square footage per
single family residence shall be no less than eight hundred (800) square feet
excluding carports, garages, and porches. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord.
10-03-17, 3-21-2017; Ord. 63-09-22, 9-6-2022)
10-3-3: YARD SPACE:
   A.   Front Yard: The minimum depth of the front yard is as provided under
each district, however, where forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage on
one (1) side of a street between two (2) intersecting streets is developed with
buildings that have not observed a front yard as hereinabove described the
front yard shall be the average size of the front yards of such lots.
      1.   Construction materials and color tones, inclusive of colored steel
metal roofs. will match, or substantially match, the primary home’s aesthetics.
It is declared that a canvas-type roof that is taut to its supporting steel
frame may re permitted; however, its color shall match, as much as reasonably
possible, the primary color of the residence.
   B.   Side Yards:
      1.   The minimum width of a side yard of a corner lot in the R-1 and R-
2 Districts shall be not less than ten feet (10') facing a side street.
      2.   A side yard of not less than twenty five feet (25') on the side of
the lot adjoining on an R-1 or R-2 District shall be provided for all schools,
libraries, community houses, churches, clubs and other public or semipublic
buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered.
      3.   A side yard shall be provided of not less than ten feet (10') upon a
lot in the C District that abuts upon an R-1 or R-2 District.
      4.   A garage detached or attached to the main use building entering on
the side street of a corner lot shall maintain a side yard of twenty feet (20')
in front of the garage. A golf cart garage door shall not be less than fifteen
feet (15') to the corner side property line; a ‘Golf Cart Garage’ is defined as
an enclosed dedicated space specifically for storing a golf cart; whereby the
general size of such could approximately be 8' x 15'.
   C.   Rear Yard: In the R-1 or R-2 Districts, accessory buildings may be
placed five feet (5') from the rear property line, if there are no rear
easements. If there are rear easements, the Planning Department may authorize
placement of an accessory structure if:
      1.   There are no existing utilities within the area the accessory
structure is to be placed; and
      2.   The accessory structure is not placed on a permanent cement
foundation; and
      3.   The owner of the property signs and records a hold harmless
agreement with the Hidalgo County Clerk’s Office.
      4.   A garage structure, whether new or remodeled, with a garage door
facing the alley, alley easement, or rear access way, shall have a minimum rear
garage door setback of twenty feet (20') to magnify through traffic
maneuverability within said travel lane(s).
      In R-1 and R-2 Districts, no accessory building shall be more than one
(1) story in height.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 10-03-17, 3-21-2017; Ord. 35-06-22, 6-7-
2022; Ord. 36-07-23, 7-11-2023; Ord. 78-2-24, 2-6-2024; Ord. 159-02-25, 2-24-
2025)
10-3-4: ANNEXED TERRITORY:
All territory hereafter annexed to City shall be classified as R-1 Single-
Family Dwelling District until permanently zoned by the Board of Commissioners
of the City upon an application to rezone the property, as filed by the
property owner or his/her agent. Regarding annexation, to activate the
voluntary annexation process, the fee is established at $400. Should the owner
or his/her agent request that any of the required public hearings be ‘Tabled’,
then such request may be honored but shall not be re-activated until said
applicant/agent pay the City a fee of $200 to compensate the City to re-
initiate the required publication/notification process. If the annexation
process has started and then the owner/agent withdraws the annexation request
(in writing) and the annexation process has not been fully consummated, then
the City shall retain 50% of the last filing fee paid.
   A.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is situated.
   B.   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, except in conformity with the area and parking
regulations of the district in which the building is situated.
   C.   The minimum yards and other open spaces, including lot area per family,
required by this title for each and every building existing at the effective
date hereof or for any building thereafter erected shall not encroach upon or
be considered as yard or open space requirements for any other building nor
shall any lot area be reduced to an area less than the district requirements of
this title.
   D.   Every building hereinafter erected or structurally altered shall be on
a "lot" as herein defined, and in no case shall there be more than one (1) main
building on one (1) lot, except as otherwise provided by this title. (Ord. 95-
04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 120-9-24, 9-3-2024)
10-3-4-1: DE-ANNEXATION PROCESS:
A bona fide and signed petition for de-annexation shall comply with all
prevailing Texas statutes as may be specified in Title 2, Subtitle C,
Subchapter G ‘De-annexation’, Chapter 43 of the Local Government Code. It is
the inherent duty of the petitioner(s) to examine such statutes, and thereafter
file all required documents to the City Secretary’s Office. Upon receiving the
documents, the City shall date-stamp the documents. Thereafter, they shall be
examined by the City of Alamo officials to confirm full compliance. When deemed
appropriate, the City shall process the petition to its eventual outcome.
Should the petition not be fully compliant, the petitioners’ representative
shall be informed of this determination. For the administrative services to be
comprehensively provided, a de-annexation processing fee rate schedule is
hereby established to fairly compensate the City for its review/processing
services as follows:
 
$400   1 to 10 signatory petitioners
$600   11 to 20 petitioners
$800   21 to 35 petitioners
$1,000 36+ petitioners
 
(Ord. 168-04-26, 4-1-2025)
10-3-5: GENERAL CONFORMANCE TO PROVISIONS:
   A.   Use of premises and all buildings in the City shall be in accordance
with the minimum standards hereinafter established.
   B.   Every building shall be on a lot, except where a lot is in C or M
Districts where there may be more than one (1) commercial or industrial
building on a lot; provided, that the required yards be maintained around the
group of buildings.
   C.   Yards, parking space or lot area required for one (1) building cannot
be used for another building nor can the size of a lot be reduced below the
requirements of this title, except as provided for in chapter 12 of this title.
   D.   All inhabited trailers shall conform to title 9, chapter 5 of this
Code.
   E.   In all commercial districts and industrial districts, adjacent
residential uses and zoning districts shall have the nonresidential user
install a minimum 6' to 8' high buffering wall or wood fence between said
properties. Dependent on circumstances of compatibility and expected noise
generation from the nonresidential user, an appropriate fence buffer may be
required by the City even if an intervening alley exists between the
residential and nonresidential property especially if said nonresidential user
does not plan to actively use the alley.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 45-09-23, 9-5-2023)
10-3-6: VEHICLE PARKING:
It is the intent of the vehicle parking regulations to allow in all zoning
districts off street parking, also known as on site parking, shall be provided
for each of the uses identified hereinbelow at the ratios specified herein at
the time any building or structure is: a) erected or b) structurally altered,
or at such other time when the use of an existing building is changed, except
as otherwise specified by this section. (Ord. 11-06-15, 6-2-2015)
   A.   Parking Requirements:
                                          1 parking space for each 100 square
Amusement (indoor):                      feet of gross floor area for use not
                                          listed below
 1. Bingo parlors                       1 parking space for every 3 seats
 2. Bowling alley                       6 parking spaces for each alley
 3. Racquetball or handball court       3 parking spaces for each court
 4. Indoor tennis courts                6 parking spaces for each court
 5. Indoor running tracks               1 parking space for every 300 linear
                                          feet
 6. Indoor swimming pool                1 parking space for every 100 square
                                          feet of water surface plus deck area
 7. Theaters (motion picture) and       1 parking space for every 4 seats
  auditoriums
 8. Pool hall/room                      2 parking spaces per pool/billiards
                                          table
Amusement (outdoor):                      
  1. Areas with fixed seating or          1 parking space for every 4 seats for
 bleachers                              fixed seating or for every 6 linear
                                          feet of benches for bleacher seating
                                          5 parking spaces per hole, plus
 2. Golf course                         requirements for retail, office, and
                                          country club parking
 3. Golf driving range                  1.5 parking spaces per driving tee
 4. Sports fields (no fixed seating)    50 parking spaces per field
 5. Sports recreation courts (no fixed  6 parking spaces per court
  seating)
 6. Swimming pool (outdoor)             1 parking space for every 100 square
                                          feet of water surface plus deck area
Assisted living facility                 1 parking space per 1.5 dwelling
                                          units
                                          1 parking space for each 3 seats or 6
Church or other place of worship         feet of bench seating in the main
                                          auditorium or assembly hall
                                          10 parking spaces plus 1 additional
Community center, library, museum or     space for each 300 square feet of
art gallery                               floor area in excess of 2,000 square
                                          feet
                                          1 parking space for every 5,000
Contractor's yard                        square feet of lot area, with a
                                          minimum of 5 spaces
Dwellings:                                
 R-1                                    2 parking spaces for each unit
 R-2, R-MH                              2 parking spaces for every unit
Fraternity, sorority, or dormitory       1 parking space for each 2 beds
Hospital                                 1 parking space for each bed
                                          1 parking space for each sleeping
                                          room without a kitchen or 1.5 parking
Hotel/motel or residence hotel           spaces for each sleeping room with a
                                          kitchen, plus 1 parking space for
                                          every 200 square feet of restaurant,
                                          retail, conference or office area
                                          1 parking space for every 1,000
                                          square feet up to 20,000 square feet
Industrial and manufacturing uses        plus 1 parking space for every 2,000
                                          square feet in excess of 20,000
                                          square feet
Junkyard, recycling center and similar   1 parking space for every 10,000
industrial use                            square feet of lot area
Lodge, fraternal organization, country   1 parking space for each 200 square
club or golf club                         feet of floor area
                                          1 parking space for every 400 square
Lumberyard                               feet of floor area, plus 1 parking
                                          space for every 1,000 square feet of
                                          warehouse
Machinery/heavy equipment sales          1 parking space for every 400 square
                                          feet of gross floor area
                                          4 parking spaces. A 12 foot wide
                                          loading zone shall be constructed in
                                          front of all access areas for each
Miniwarehouse (self-storage only)        unit and shall not conflict with
                                          required fire lanes. A single loading
                                          zone may accommodate units on both
                                          sides of fire lane
                                          1 parking space for each 200 square
Mortuary or funeral home                 feet of floor space in slumber rooms,
                                          parlors, or individual funeral
                                          service rooms
Nursing home, skilled nursing facility,  1 parking space for every 4 beds
convalescent home
Retail uses:                              
  1. Retail store or personal service     1 parking space for every 250 square
 establishment, except as otherwise     feet of floor space
  specified herein
                                          1 parking space for every 400 square
 2. Bank, or similar institution        feet plus 5 stacking spaces per
                                          drive-through teller or ATM station
                                          1 parking space for every guestroom
 3. Bed and breakfast facility          plus the parking requirements for a
                                          detached single- family dwelling
                                          1 parking space for every 250 square
 4. Car wash (full service)             feet of floor area plus 7 stacking
                                          spaces for each wash, vacuum, or gas
                                          pump lane
                                          1 parking space for each bay or stall
                                          (in addition to washing areas or
 5. Car wash (self-serve)               stalls) plus 3 stacking spaces for
                                          each wash bay if automated drive-
                                          through or 2 stacking spaces for each
                                          wash bay if wand type
                                          1 parking space for every 100 square
 6. Dance hall, assembly or exhibition  feet of floor area or 1 parking space
  hall without fixed seats                for every 3 seats, whichever is
                                          greater
                                          1 parking space for every 200 square
 7. Drive-through establishments        feet of floor area, plus 8 stacking
                                          spaces from the point of where the
                                          order is made
                                          1 parking space for every 250 square
 8. Dry cleaners (with drive-through)   feet of floor area plus 3 stacking
                                          spaces shall be required per drive-
                                          through lane
 9. Flea and farmers' market            1 parking space for every 250 square
                                          feet of market area
 10. Furniture, appliance, hardware     1 parking space for every 300 square
  and wholesale establishments            feet
 11. Fitness club, gymnasium, exercise  1 parking space for every 150 square
  area or similar use                     feet
                                          1 parking space for each 500 square
                                          feet of sales floor for indoor uses
  12. Motor vehicle/auto sales (new or    plus 1 parking space for each 1,000
 used)                                  square feet of outdoor display area
                                          in addition to spaces as calculated
                                          for office and repair areas at their
                                          respective ratio
                                          2 parking spaces for each service bay
                                          with a minimum of 5 spaces plus
                                          parking requirements for office and
  13. Motor vehicle/auto repair and       overnight storage of vehicle. For
 service                                quick lube or similar services, 3
                                          stacking spaces for each service bay
                                          shall also be provided. A minimum of
                                          1 overnight storage parking space
                                          must be provided for each service bay
 14. Office (business/professional)     1 parking space for each 400 square
                                          feet
 15. Office (medical/dental/health)     1 parking space for every 300 square
                                          feet of floor area
                                          1 parking space for each 75 square
  16. Restaurant, private club,           feet of floor area, or 1 parking
 nightclub, cafe, or similar            space for every 3 seats, and 5
  recreational/amusement establishment    stacking spaces from the point where
                                          the order is placed
Retirement home (independent living)     1 parking space for each dwelling
                                          unit
Rooming house or boarding house          1 parking space for each sleeping
                                          room
School:                                   
                                          2.5 parking spaces for each
 Elementary (public/private)            classroom, plus 1 pick up/drop off
                                          lane consisting of at least 10
                                          stacking spaces
                                          2.5 parking spaces for each classroom
                                          plus 1 parking space for each 4 seats
 Middle (public/private)                in the auditorium or gymnasium plus 1
                                          pick up/drop off lane consisting of
                                          at least 10 stacking spaces
                                          8 parking spaces for each classroom
 High (public/private)                  or 1 parking space for each 4 seats
                                          in the main auditorium or gymnasium
                                          whichever is greater
 College or university                  15 parking spaces per classroom
                                          1 parking space for each 10,000
Truck stops                              square feet of site area plus 1
                                          vehicle space for each 250 square
                                          feet of building area
Veterinarian clinic                      1 parking space for each 300 square
                                          feet of floor space
Warehouse type uses                      1 parking space for each 4,000 square
                                          feet
 
(Ord. 11-06-15, 6-2-2015; amd. Ord. 02-01-16, 1-19-2016)
   B.   Rules For Computing Number Of Parking Spaces: In computing the number
of parking spaces required for each of the above uses the following rules shall
govern:
      1.   Definition Of Floor Area: The term "floor area" means the gross
floor area of the specific use.
      2.   Fractional Spaces: Where fractional spaces result, the parking
spaces required shall be constructed to be the next higher whole number.
      3.   Uses Not Mentioned: The parking space requirements for use not
specifically mentioned herein shall be the same as required for a use of
similar nature.
      4.   Building Or Use Changes: Whenever a building or use is changed or
enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of dwelling units, seating
capacity, or otherwise, to create a need for an increase in the number of
existing parking spaces, such spaces shall be provided on the basis of the
enlargement or change. Whenever any building is enlarged to the extent of fifty
percent (50%) or more in floor area or in the area used, said building or use
shall then and thereafter comply with the parking requirements set forth
herein.
      5.   Mixed Uses: In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required
shall equal the sum of the requirements of the various uses computed
separately.
      6.   Parking Reductions:
         a.   For multi-tenant retail shopping centers or office developments
greater than twenty five thousand (25,000) square feet in floor area, the sum
of the total required parking may be reduced with site plan approval.
Determination shall be based on the frequency of the anticipated peak parking
demands, and location of parking spaces in relation to the building(s).
         b.   For developments greater than fifty thousand (50,000) square feet
in floor area, the sum of the total required parking may be reduced with site
plan approval. Determination shall be based on the frequency of the anticipated
peak parking demand, and location of parking spaces in relation to the building
(s).
   C.   Shared Parking Spaces: Under specific circumstances listed below, a
limited number of parking spaces may be applied toward parking space
requirements for two (2) different uses. Proposed shared parking arrangements
shall be considered during the site planning process. Not more than fifty
percent (50%) of the required parking spaces for: theaters, bowling alleys,
nightclubs, churches or school auditoriums, or similar uses may be provided and
used jointly by uses not normally open, used or operated during the same hours
as those listed herein.
   D.   Location Of Parking Spaces: All parking spaces required herein shall be
located on the same lot with the building or use served, except as follows:
      1.   Required parking spaces for nonresidential uses not located on the
same lot with the building or use served may be located on another lot located
no more than five hundred feet (500') from such building or use. Where no
parking lot or building is being constructed, staff may approve such off site
parking arrangements. If the proposed off site parking proposal is related to
or includes construction of a building or parking lot, proposed off site
parking arrangements shall be considered during the site plan process.
      2.   Blocks of properties that have historically been provided on-street
parking by the City of Alamo shall be exempt from off-street parking
regulations during the building permit process. Such properties include, but
may not be limited to, the series of lots on Acacia between Alamo Road to 8th
street; Main Street Lots; 9th Street south of U.S. Business Highway 83, etc.
However, non- residential lots may be imposed paved off-street parking should
it be a corner lot.
   E.   Parking Agreements Required: For any shared parking arrangements or off
site parking arrangements described above, written agreements ensuring
retention of such parking spaces for such purposes, shall be properly drawn and
executed by the parties concerned, approved as to form by the city attorney and
shall be filed with the application for a building permit.
   F.   General Requirements:
      1.   Dimensions: Off street parking spaces shall have minimum dimensions
of:
         a.   Nine feet (9') in width; and
         b.   Eighteen feet (18') in length (depth of stall perpendicular to
the aisle).
         c.   The minimum width of access aisles (for one-way and two-way
operation) internal to a parking lot or structure shall be as follows:
 
Parking Angle    Width Of Maneuvering Lane
30°, 45° and 6015'
90°             24'
 
      2.   Striping: Each parking stall, accessible aisle, painted island, and
loading zone shall be striped using a paint designed to resist weather and
abrasions that adheres well to concrete or asphalt. The striping shall be a
minimum of four inches (4") wide, with white or yellow paint for stalls and
loading zones, and blue or white paint for accessible parking and associated
access aisles.
      3.   Construction Materials: All off street parking facilities, inclusive
of residential driveways and approaches, shall be constructed with a minimum of
concrete or asphalt according to city standards and specifications. The
planning director shall have the authority to allow for an extension of time to
pave the required off street parking, however shall not be more than sixty (60)
calendar days. The city commission may authorize more than sixty (60) calendar
days during a conditional use permit process or through the variance process as
detailed in section
10-11-1 of this title.
      4.   Maintenance And Right To Inspection: All off street parking
facilities, inclusive of residential driveways and approaches must be
maintained in good condition and shall constitute a violation of this chapter
if said parking is not maintained by the property owner. The city inspector or
code enforcement officer shall have the right to enter upon any property in
order to inspect the parking facilities or driveway to ensure that the parking
facilities or driveway is free of weeds, dust, trash, loose gravel, potholes,
faded parking stripes and any other issues that may have a negative aesthetic
or impact on the proper use of the parking facility. If the city inspector or
the code enforcement officer finds that a parking facility is in need of
repair, a notice to correct the violation shall be sent to the owner of the
property based on the Hidalgo County appraisal records in order to remedy the
violation.
      5.   Commercial And Multi-Family Driveways And Parking Facilities: A
commercial/multi-family driveway entrance shall not be more than thirty six
feet (36') in width with a ten foot (10') radius along the driveway approach
(cut). The thirty six feet (36') will allow for a maximum of three (3) 12-foot
lanes (a left turn, right turn, and entrance). In areas where the parking
facilities are adjacent to the boundary or perimeter of a property, wheel
guards or a standard concrete curb shall be installed. Businesses that wish to
utilize adjoining existing alleys shall provide paving of the alley no less
than sixteen feet (16') in width from the property to the nearest existing
street or as required by the fire marshal. If the alley is to be used as a
maneuvering lane, the minimum paved width shall meet the requirements set out
in subsection F1c of this section. Paving shall comply with the minimum
standards required by the public works director.
      6.   Residential Driveways: A residential driveway shall be a minimum of
either ten feet (10') wide by thirty six feet (36') in length or twenty feet
(20') in width by twenty eight feet (28') in length. The driveway shall not be
more than twenty feet (20') in width with a five foot (5') radius along the
driveway approach (cut). No more than two (2) driveways are permitted along any
street frontage. A minimum of twelve inches (12") of open green space is
required between driveways and the side property lines or a minimum of a four
inch (4") curb will be required in order to prevent stormwater runoff into the
neighboring properties.
      7.   Requirement Deviations: In approving a parking plan, the planning
director may allow or require minor deviations from the requirements of this
section whenever a literal application of a requirement to a premises that
would, because of unusual circumstances or situations not generally common to
other premises, not achieve the purposes or intent of the regulation or cause
an undesired result.
   G.   Accessible Parking:
      1.   Accessible parking spaces and access routes shall be required in all
commercial parking facilities and in multi-family uses with more than four (4)
dwelling units per lot. Accessible parking spaces required shall comply with
the 2010 ADA "Standards For Accessible Design" manual.
         a.   Each accessible parking space shall be designated as reserved by
a vertically mounted or suspended sign at least twelve inches (12") in width
showing the symbol of accessibility. The required signage shall also include
below the symbol for accessibility the words, "class C misdemeanor w/o permit".
Signage for van accessible spaces shall also display the words "van accessible"
below the symbol for accessibility.
         b.   Post mounted signs shall have a minimum mounting height of seven
feet (7') within pedestrian areas. Post mounted signs not within pedestrian
areas or wall mounted signs shall have a minimum mounting height of five feet
(5').
Curb ramps with a minimum width of three feet (3') and a maximum slope of one
to twelve (1:12) shall be provided wherever an accessible route crosses a curb.
Maximum slope of one to ten (1:10) shall be provided for flared sides for curb
ramps within accessible routes and for built-up curb ramps within parking
areas.
   H.   Access Management:
      1.   All proposed access points along state roadways shall comply with
TxDOT's "Access Management Manual". The city shall review access points along
all other roadways in order to provide the safest and best location for
proposed access points.
   I.   Common Access And Internal Cross Access:
      1.   Separate Ownership; No Common Plan Or Development: Where adjacent
properties are separately owned and not part of a common plan of development,
the city may require common access or internal cross access as the parcels are
developed, substantially improved, or redeveloped. As such, an applicant may be
granted temporary individual access if:
         a.   The applicant demonstrates that a reasonable offer with regard to
cross access was refused by the adjacent landowner; and
         b.   The applicant records a property encumbrance document that will
ensure that the connection will be provided and access will be consolidated
upon the earlier of:
            (1)   Approval for development, substantial improvement, or
redevelopment of the adjacent property, if providing such connection is a
requirement of the approval for the adjacent property; or
            (2)   The applicant's parcel and the adjacent parcel coming under
common ownership; and
            (3)   The applicant demonstrates that the proposed temporary access
will not materially affect the safe and efficient flow of traffic.
      2.   Common Ownership Or Common Plan Of Development: Phased development,
development sites under the same ownership, or development sites that are
consolidated for the purposes of development and comprised of more than one
building are considered unified parcels. Unified parcels shall provide access
as follows:
         a.   The number of connections permitted shall be the minimum number
necessary to provide reasonable access to the overall site and not the maximum
available for the site's frontage.
         b.   Access to outparcels shall be internalized using a shared
circulation system and designed to avoid excessive movement across parking
aisles or queuing across surrounding parking and driving aisles.
      3.   Terms: The city may require that common and cross access easements
include one or more of the following:
         a.   A continuous drive able to accommodate two-way traffic between
properties.
         b.   Stub-outs and other design features to allow adjoining
nonresidential properties an avenue to tie in for future cross access
connectivity.
         c.   Linkage to existing cross access drives in the area.
      4.   Approval And Recording Of Cross Access Easements: In areas where
shared access by adjoining properties is being proposed or required, a common
access easement document shall be filed with the county clerk's office in order
to ensure continued shared access.
   J.   Median Island in Parking Lot: When a property owner/developer desires a
median island within the boundaries of a private parking lot affording access
to a residential, commercial, industrial, educational, and/or religious
development, the median island template as found in Attachment A shall be
required. It is declared that any owner/agent proposing deviation from the
standards reflected thereon, shall file an application for variance which shall
first be acted upon by the Planning & Zoning Commission for advisory action;
ultimate action on such a variance shall be tendered by the Board of
Commissioners. The non-refundable filing fee for median island deviation shall
be $100. (Ord. 11-06-15, 6-2-2015; amd. Ord. 16-09-18, 9-4-2018; Ord. 69-10-22,
10-4-2022; Ord. 152-12-24, 12-3-2024)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Districts Established
10-4-2: Zoning District Map
10-4-3: Boundaries
10-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.   For the purpose of regulating and restricting the height and size of
buildings and other structures, the percentage of lots that may be occupied,
the size of yards and other open spaces, the density of population and the
location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence or other purposes, the city is hereby divided into districts, which
shall be known as:
R-1 district      Single-family Residential District
SH/R-1 district   Senior Housing Residential District
SH/R-MH district  Senior Housing Residential Mobile Home District
R-2 district      Multi-family District
R-1T district     Townhome District
R-MH district     Mobile Home and Modular Home District
C-1 district      Light Commercial District
C district        Commercial District
M district        Industrial District
 
   B.   Any use not listed herein may be placed in a suitable district
classification by the governing body, after recommendation of the planning and
zoning commission. (Ord. 1-18-2000-02, 1-18-2000; amd. Ord. 122-9-24, 9-3-2024)
10-4-2: ZONING DISTRICT MAP:
   A.   Map Established: The boundaries of the districts described above are
shown on the map that is on file in the office of the city manager and
incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference, which map is
designated as the zoning district map. Said district map and all notations,
references and other information shown thereon are made a part of this title
and shall have the same force and effect as if said map and said data thereon
were fully set forth or described herein. Said map shall, on its face, be
identified and verified in the manner following: it shall bear the title
"Zoning District Map - Alamo, Texas"; it shall bear the name of the mayor and
it shall be attested by the signature of the city secretary. The original of
said map shall be kept in a proper place in the municipal building.
   B.   Vacations: Whenever any street, alley or public way is lawfully vacated
by the board of commissioners of the city, the zoning district adjoining each
side of such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the
center of such vacated area thereafter all land included in said districts.
   C.   Annexations: Whenever any property is annexed into the city such
property shall be added to the zoning map and be assigned to a district in
accordance with the zoning ordinance passed after the effective annexation. If
the use of such property cannot be wholly determined then such property shall
be given a temporary zoning classification as R-1. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-4-3: BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the map made part of this title, the following rules
apply:
   A.   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the map made a part of this title
are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the street or alley shall
be construed to be the boundary of the district.
   B.   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the map made part of this title are bounded
approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be the boundary
of the district unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on the map.
   C.   In subdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map made a
part of this title shall be determined by the use of the scale appearing on the
map. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
CHAPTER 5
R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5-1: Application Of Provisions
10-5-2: Permitted Uses
10-5-3: Height Regulations
10-5-4: Area Regulations
10-5-5: Intensity Of Use
10-5-6: Conditional Uses
10-5-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to the R-1 Single-Family Dwelling
District. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-5-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
One mobile home or one travel trailer when exclusively used as the primary
residential structure if the subject property is within the Multipurpose Area,
as defined in Section 9-5-2 (B).
One single-family dwelling per lot.
Churches (except temporary revival).
Farms, nurseries, truck gardens and greenhouses; provided, no sales office is
maintained.
Municipal buildings, nonprofit libraries or museums, police and fire stations.
Public parks, playgrounds, golf courses (except miniature golf), public
recreation and community buildings.
Schools, public or private, having a curriculum equal to public elementary,
high school or institution of higher learning.
Signs in accordance to Section
9-4-12 (A) Residential Districts.
Accessory buildings and accessory uses, customarily incidental to the above
uses (not involving the conduct of a business) when located on the same lot,
including a private garage for one or more cars, bona fide servants’ quarters
not for rent or used for commercial purposes. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd.
Ord. 61-09-22, 9-6-2022; Ord. 67-10-22, 10-4-2022; Ord. 160-02-25, 2-24-2025)
10-5-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two (2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-5-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard along the front line of the
lot. The minimum depth of such front yard shall be twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side Yards: There shall be a side yard on each side of building of not
less than five feet (5').
   C.   Rear Yard: The depth of the rear yard shall be at least fifteen feet
(15'). (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-5-5: INTENSITY OF USE:
Every lot or tract of land shall have an area of not less than six thousand two
hundred fifty (6,250) square feet and an average width of not less than fifty
feet (50'); except that if a lot or tract should have less area or width than
is herein required and its boundary lines along their entire length should
touch lands under other ownership on January 1, 1981, and shall not have been
changed since said date, such parcel of land may be used for a single-family
dwelling. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-5-6: CONDITIONAL USES 1 :
   A building or premises shall be used for the following only after a permit
is issued for such use:
   A dependent travel trailer for temporary residency of medically/emotionally
afflicted family member(s) related to the primary resident(s) which shall be
subject to:
      1.   City Staff to monitor the health care need at the site, which may be
on-or-about every 6 months, to assure that the vigilant need by the primary
resident’s household is still evident - such reports to be made part of the
applicants’ CUP file;
      2.   The travel trailer shall be only for temporary residency, and shall
not ever be used to generate any type of rental fee and/or service value of the
occupants;
      3.   This CUP shall not ever be transferable to any new property owner;
      4.   Applicable building permits, plus other incidental permits, shall be
required according to protocol;
      5.   No renewed approval of such a CUP shall ever be beyond two (2) years
to thus assure continual monitoring by the City in a public hearing setting;
      6.   A 6' buffer (wood framed fence may be required to obscure the travel
trailer from area single family homes; dependent on neighborhood circumstances;
      7.   If determined that the usage is no longer needed, the travel trailer
shall either be removed from the property within 30-calendar days’ written
notice by the City or be entirely de-activated from utility connections and
simply be ‘stored’ on the premises; and/or
      8.   other reasonable measures may be imposed during the public hearing
process to assure gentle assimilation into the residential neighborhood.
   A family-oriented events facility with predominantly outdoor activity
stations. Such a CUP must be on a minimum sized tract of 1.5 acres; only have
access to an arterial type street; must not have live music; must be buffered
to residential adjoiners; must have sufficient off-street parking areas; shall
not have operable hours after 9:00 pm; and there shall be no selling of
alcoholic refreshments at any time. The maximum occupancy capacity will be
determined by the City’s Fire Marshal.
   Bed and Breakfast Facility; such an approved conditional use shall have the
pre-clearance from the City’s Building Inspector and Fire Marshal as to safety
and overall Code compliance; each available B&B room shall require 1
unobstructed paved parking space. A business license shall be issued prior to
an approved CUP and shall be required prior to any B&B occupancy. An instrument
shall be recorded citing the City of Alamo’s approval and the conditions of
approval which shall include that such conditional uses are not transferable to
new owners, heirs, and/or assigns.
   Home occupations.
   Parking facilities for nonresidential uses.
   Centers that provides basic, social, daily living and learning services to
people with disabilities, special needs (physical, emotional, etc.), or similar
conditions to magnify independent living abilities; such use(s) must have its
primary access to a collector street classification or of higher intensity;
must be a minimum one and a half (1.5) acres in size, must be certified/cleared
by the appropriate State of Texas agency for such services to receive the
required city business license; and have paved off-street parking to be
compliant to typical day-care parking regulations found in Section
10-3-6 (A). Also, any CUP may be required to provide additional fire hydrant
(s), pave perimeter five foot (5') sidewalks, provide minimum six foot (6')
fence buffering, and meet the most prevailing building/fire codes. Finally,
landscaping for such a use will be one (1) shade tree (seven feet (7') tall at
three inch (3") caliper) for every thirty feet (30') of street frontage
inclusive of corner lot frontage; and any signage must comply with prevailing
regulations for residential districts as found in Section
9-4-12 (A).
   Temporary Religious RV Residency on Church Premises for Charitable Purposes.
An approved CUP will impose the following requirements:
         1.   No more than 2 RV spaces may be permitted - such spaces shall be
within a paved area; and,
         2.   The placement of RV residency shall not cause a reduction of
available paved parking spaces for the church’s main assembly during regular
worship services; and,
         3.   Such RV use shall not be contingent, directly or indirectly, as
rentable property or premises for a short-term lease; and,
         4.   The primary purpose of the RV’s occupants are purely charitable;
and,
         5.   The CUP approved for RV residency may be approved for 1 year or
lengthier intervals subject to random monitoring by the City of Alamo; however,
each RV resident/tenant shall not be more than 3 months each - any lengthier
stay per tenant will require the approval of the City Manager, based on unique
relief circumstances that may warrant a higher measure of sensitive
consideration by the City; and,
         6.   Other reasonable requirements imposed by the City based on the
property’s special circumstances. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 13-08-18,
8-7-2018; Ord. 22-04-23, 4-4-2023; Ord. 40-08-23, 8-1-2023; Ord. 75-1-24, 1-2-
2024; Ord. 133-10-2024, 10-1-2024; Ord. 158-02-25, 2-24-2025; Ord. 176-05-25,
5-6-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 13 of this Title for conditional use permits.
CHAPTER 5A
SH/R-1 SENIOR HOUSING RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Application Of Provisions
10-5A-2: Permitted And Conditional Uses
10-5A-3: Height Regulations
10-5A-4: Area Regulations
10-5A-5: Intensity Of Use
10-5A-6: Nonconforming Use Status
10-5A-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to the SH/R-1 Senior Housing Residential
District. (Ord. 4-15-97A, 4-15-1997)
10-5A-2: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      1.   Single-family dwellings for senior citizens where at least one
occupant of the premises is fifty-five (55) years of age or older.
      2.   Accessory buildings, structures, and/or surface improvements
designed to be primarily used by the senior residents of the affected
development.
      3.   Signs in accordance to Section
9-4-12 (A) Residential Districts.
      4.   On-premise signs, including illuminated, portable, or animated
signs; on common lots approved for recreational or temporary commercial
facilities in accordance with adopted city ordinances.
      5.   All other permitted uses for R-1 Single-Family Dwelling zoning
district.
   B.   Conditional Uses 1 : A building or premises shall be used for the
following, only after a permit is issued for such use:
Home occupations. (Ord. 4-15-97A, 4-15-1997; amd. Ord. 34-06-22, 6-7-2022; Ord.
61-09-22, 9-6-2022; Ord. 67-10-22, 10-4-2022)
 
Notes
1    See Chapter 13 of this Title for conditional use permits.
10-5A-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two (2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height.
(Ord. 4-15-97A, 4-15-1997)
10-5A-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard along the front line of the
lot. The minimum depth of such front yard shall be twenty five feet (25').
   B.   Side Yards: There shall be a side yard on each side of building of not
less than five feet (5').
   C.   Rear Yard: The depth of the rear yard shall be at least fifteen feet
(15'). (Ord. 4-15-97A, 4-15-1997)
10-5A-5: INTENSITY OF USE:
Every lot or tract of land shall have an area of not less than six thousand two
hundred fifty (6,250) square feet and an average width of not less than fifty
feet (50'); except that if a lot or tract should have less area or width than
is herein required and its boundary lines along their entire length should
touch lands under other ownership on January 1, 1981, and shall not have been
changed since said date, such parcel of land may be used for a single-family
dwelling. (Ord. 4-15-97A, 4-15-1997)
10-5A-6: NONCONFORMING USE STATUS:
Notwithstanding any other provision relating to nonconforming use status as set
out in this Zoning Title for the City, for the purposes of the SH/R-1 District,
a "nonconforming use status" shall be limited to the period of occupation of a
single-family residence by a person or persons not including a person fifty
five (55) years of age or older, who resides in such residence on the date of
the adoption of this Chapter and applying this District to such single-family
residential structure, provided however, thereafter when such residence becomes
unoccupied by sale, lease or otherwise, then the nonconforming status is
extinguished and the single-family premises must thereafter be occupied by at
least one person who is fifty five (55) years of age or older. (Ord. 4-15-97A,
4-15-1997)
CHAPTER 5B
SH/R-MH SENIOR HOUSING RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Application Of Provisions
10-5B-2: Permitted And Conditional Uses
10-5B-3: Height Regulations
10-5B-4: Area Regulations
10-5B-5: Intensity Of Use
10-5B-6: Nonconforming Use Status
10-5B-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to the SH/R-MH senior housing residential
mobile home district. (Ord. 1-18-2000-02, 1-18-2000)
10-5B-2: PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: A building/mobile home or premises shall be used only
for the following purposes:
      1.   Single-family dwellings for senior citizens where at least one
occupant of the premises is fifty-five (55) years of age or older.
      2.   Accessory buildings, structures, and/or surface improvements
designed to be primarily used by the senior residents of the affected
development.
      3.   Signs in accordance to Section
9-4-12 (A) Residential Districts.
      4.   On-premise signs, including illuminated, portable, or animated
signs; on common lots approved for recreational or temporary commercial
facilities in accordance with adopted city ordinances.
      5.   All other permitted uses for R-MH Single-Family Dwelling zoning
district.
   B.   Conditional Uses: A building or premises shall be used for the
following only after a permit is issued for such use:
Home occupations. (Ord. 1-18-2000-02, 1-18-2000; amd. Ord. 34-06-22, 6-7-2022;
Ord. 61-09-22, 9-6-2022; Ord. 67-10-22, 10-4-2022)
10-5B-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two (2) stories or twenty five feet (25') in height.
(Ord. 1-18-2000-02, 1-18-2000)
10-5B-4: AREA REGULATIONS:
   A.   Minimum size of tract or development         10 lots
   B.   Maximum number of single-family dwelling units per lot   1 only
   C.      Minimum depth of front setback          10 feet
   D.      Minimum depth of rear setback         5 feet
   E.      Minimum width of side setback:
         Internal lot   5 feet
         External lot (abutting street)    10 feet
   F.      Minimum distance between separate structures on same lot including
appurtenances      10 feet
   G.   Minimum distance from the public right of way to the required parking
area whether open, covered, or enclosed      18 feet
   H.   Minimum height of structure   25 feet
(Ord. 1-18-2000-02, 1-18-2000)
10-5B-5: INTENSITY OF USE:
Every lot or tract of land shall have an area of not less than six thousand two
hundred fifty (6,250) square feet and an average width of not less than fifty
feet (50'); except that if a lot or tract should have less area or width than
is herein required and its boundary lines along their entire length should
touch lands under other ownership on January 1, 1981, and shall not have been
changed since said date, such parcel of land may be used for a single-family
dwelling. (Ord. 1-18-2000-02, 1-18-2000)
10-5B-6: NONCONFORMING USE STATUS:
Notwithstanding any other provision relating to nonconforming use status as set
out in the zoning ordinance for the city of Alamo, for the purposes of the SH/
R-MH district, a "nonconforming use status" shall be limited to the period of
occupation of a single-family residence by a person or persons not including a
person fifty five (55) years of age or older, who resides in such residence on
the date of the adoption hereof and applying this district to such single-
family residential structure, provided however, thereafter when such residence
becomes unoccupied by sale, lease or otherwise, then the nonconforming status
is extinguished and the single-family premises must thereafter be occupied by
at least one person who is fifty five (55) years of age or older. (Ord. 1-18-
2000-02, 1-18-2000)
CHAPTER 5C
MDR1 MODERATE DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Application Of Prevailing Regulations
10-5C-2: Permitted Uses
10-5C-3: MDR1 Use Requirements
10-5C-4: Conditional Uses
10-5C-1: APPLICATION OF PREVAILING REGULATIONS:
In the proposed development of a MDR1 development, the applicable provisions
from the Subdivision Ordinance relating to streets, sidewalks, fire hydrant
interval spacing, etc., shall be applied as deemed appropriate. MDR1
Subdivisions shall have paved streets, whether public or private, of not less
than 38' B-B. (Ord. 177-05-25, 5-6-2025)
10-5C-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   One Moderate Density Single-Family Residence per recorded Lot; such a
residence shall have a minimum 1400 square feet of living area.
   Signs that are permitted in the R-l zoning district shall also be permitted
in the MDR1 zoning district, in accordance to prevailing Sign Code Regulations.
   Accessory uses and/or structures; inclusive of detention ponds which shall
be perpetually privately maintained (via the recorded CCRs).
   Common improvements such as private recreational amenities, or similar type
structures, are permitted; and shall be subject to building setbacks and
parking regulations as set forth in the recorded plat notes or, if none exist,
then pursuant to the recorded deed restrictions (the latter to be privately
enforced). (Ord. 177-05-25, 5-6-2025)
10-5C-3: MDR1 USE REQUIREMENTS:
Building setbacks for MDR1 primary residential structures shall be as follows
subject to adjustment via recorded plat notes, recorded easements, and/or bona
fide and binding orders from the Zoning Board of Adjustments (ZBA).
I
   A.   1.   Minimum Lot Area for internal lots:         4,000 square feet.
      2.   Minimum Lot Area for corner lots:         4,500 square feet.
   B.   One MDR1 primary residential structure per lot. A MDR1 residence may be
built on Two lots should there not be a viable easement at the common side lot
line.
   C.   1.   Minimum lot width for internal lots:         40'
      2.   Minimum lot width for corner lots:         45'
   D.   Minimum lot length:                     100'
   E.   Minimum front yard building setback:         20'
   F.   Minimum rear yard building setback:         10'
      Accessory structure building setback:         4'
   G.   Minimum side yard building setback - Inner lot:   5'
      Minimum corner side yard building setback:      10'
   H.   Garage Door setback to right-of-way:         18'
   I.   Maximum height of structures:               35'
   J.   Minimum paved off-street parking spaces:      2*
      *Driveway to be minimum 18' width
   K.   Minimum of 1 shade or decorative tree in the front setback area, as
categorized in Title 9, Chapter 6 of the City of Alamo’s Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 177-05-25, 5-6-2025)
10-5C-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
Reserved for possible future modification (Ord. 177-05-25, 5-6-2025)
CHAPTER 6
R-2 MULTI-FAMILY AND TOWNHOUSE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6-1: Application Of Prevailing Regulations
10-6-2: Permitted Uses
10-6-3: Height Regulations
10-6-4: Setback Regulations
10-6-5: Intensity Of Use - Multi-Family Use
10-6-1: APPLICATION OF PREVAILING REGULATIONS:
In the proposed development of an R-2 development, the applicable provisions
from the Subdivision Ordinance relating to streets, paved alleys, 5' sidewalks,
fire hydrant interval spacing, etc., shall be applied as deemed compliant.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 63-11-23, 11-6-2023; Ord. 115-8-24, 8-6-
2024)
10-6-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   Any use categorized as ‘Permitted’ in the R-l single-family dwelling
district.
   Apartments, multi-family dwellings, a duplex or triplex building, a fourplex
structure; such structures may be built on one R-2 zoned lot subject to
compliance to prevailing building setbacks, minimum paved off-street parking,
landscaping, detention requirements, 5' sidewalks, fire-hydrant protection
regulations, and similar regulations via enforced policies.
   Bed and Breakfast Facility in an owner-occupied residential structure; such
a use shall have the pre-clearance approval from the City’s Building Inspector
and the Fire Marshal s to safety and overall Code compliance; each available
B&B room shall require one (1) unobstructed paved parking space.
   Boarding, Lodging and rooming houses; one (1) un-obstructed paved off-street
parking space will be required for each available room for residency.
   Condominium development; requires recorded CCRs.
   Institutions of religious, educational or philanthropic nature.
   Signs in accordance to prevailing Sign Code Regulations.
   Accessory uses and/or structures available for use by tenants/guests of R-
2 zoned developments; and/or residential lot owners. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995;
amd. Ord. 67-10-22, 10-4-22; Ord. 22-04-23, 4-4-2023; Ord. 63-11-23, 11-6-2023;
Ord. 115-8-24, 8-6-2024)
10-6-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed three stories in height. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995;
Ord. 115-8-24, 8-6-2024)
10-6-4: SETBACK REGULATIONS:
Building setbacks for structures shall be as follows subject to adjustment via
recorded plat notes, recorded easements, and/or bona fide and binding orders
from the Zoning Board of Adjustments (ZBA).
   A.   Front yard building setback:      25'
   B.   Open carport front yard setback:      10'
   C.   Side yard building setback:         5'
   D.   Corner side yard building setback:   10'
   E.   Rear building setback (primary bldg.):   10'
   F.   Rear building setback (accessory):   5'
   G.   Open carport rear yard setback:      7'
   H.   Side/Rear Garage Door Setback:      18'
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995 4-4-2023; amd. Ord. 63-11-23, 11-6-2023; Ord. 93-4-24,
4-2-2024; Ord. 115-8-24, 8-6-2024)
10-6-5: INTENSITY OF USE - MULTI-FAMILY USE:
   A.   Structures for a single-family use, a duplex, triplex, fourplex or
multiple family dwelling structures shall have an area of not less than six
thousand two-hundred and fifty (6250) square feet.
   B.   Where a lot or tract has less area than herein required and its
boundary lines along their entire length touched lands under other ownership on
January 1,1981, and have not since been changed, such parcel of land may be
used for a single-family dwelling only. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 63-
11-23, 11-6-2023; Ord. 115-8-24, 8-6-2024)
CHAPTER 6A
R-1T TOWNHOUSE DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-6A-1: Application Of Prevailing Regulations
10-6A-2: Permitted Uses
10-6A-3: Height Regulations
10-6A-4: Townhouse Use Requirements”
10-6A-1: APPLICATION OF PREVAILING REGULATIONS:
In the proposed development of an R-1T Townhouse development, the applicable
provisions from the Subdivision Ordinance relating to streets, required/paved
alleys, sidewalks, fire hydrant interval spacing, etc., shall be applied as
deemed appropriate. (Ord, 115-8-24, 8-6-2024)
10-6A-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
   One Townhouse per recorded Lot.
   Townhouse condominiums; requires recorded OCRs to perpetually maintain the
common elements in such a condominium regime.
   Institutions of religious, educational or philanthropic nature; off-street
parking and setbacks shall be pursuant to the R-2 zoning district.
   Signs in accordance to prevailing Sign Code Regulations.
   Accessory uses and/or structures; inclusive of detention ponds which shall
be perpetually privately maintained (via the recorded CCRs).
(Ord, 115-8-24, 8-6-2024)
10-6A-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two and one-half stories (21Z) stories or thirty-five
(35') in height. (Ord, 115-8-24, 8-6-2024)
10-6A-4: TOWNHOUSE USE REQUIREMENTS:
Building setbacks for structures shall be as follows subject to adjustment via
recorded plat notes, recorded easements, and/or bona fide and binding orders
from the Zoning Board of Adjustments (ZBA).
   A.   1.   Minimum Lot Area for internal lots:   2000 square feet
      2.   Minimum Lot Area for corner lots:      3000 square feet
   B.   One Townhouse per lot platted for Townhouse use.
   C.   1.   Minimum lot width for internal lots:   30'
      2.   Minimum lot width for corner lots”      35'
   D.   Minimum lot length:               80'
   E.   Minimum front yard building setback:      20'
   F.   Minimum rear yard building setback:      5'
   G.   1.   Minimum side yard building setback - Inner lot 5'; however,
townhouses separated by approved firewalls may build to the side lot line where
other neighboring structures may abut. In no instance shall a portion of a
structure’s eaves, etc., encroach over the neighboring property or cross (the
air space) of a platted lot.
      2.   Minimum corner side yard building setback:   10'
   H.   Garage Door setback to right-of-way:         18'
   I.   Maximum height of structures:            35'
NOTE: Section
11-3-5  (A) requires paved alleys in townhouse developments (Ord, 115-8-24, 8-
6-2024)
CHAPTER 7
R-MH MOBILE HOME AND MODULAR HOME DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-7-1: Application Of Provisions
10-7-2: Permitted Uses
10-7-3: Development Requirements
10-7-4: Setbacks
10-7-5: Conditional Uses
10-7-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to the R-MH Mobile Home and Modular Home
District. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-7-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
One mobile home; or one travel trailer; or one modular home per lot for
residential purposes.
Accessory buildings to mobile home/recreational vehicle parks or subdivisions.
Associated recreation to mobile home/recreational vehicle parks or
subdivisions.
Commercial facilities designed primarily for the occupants of mobile home/
recreational vehicle parks or subdivisions.
One portable building or storage building not used for living quarters and
accessory to the residential use.
Single Family Dwelling Under Certain Threshold Conditions: One single family
residential dwelling may be permitted but only after, at least, one of the
following is applicable:
   A.   The percentage of lots used and/or occupied in the subject R MH
subdivision reflects a minimum twenty percent (20%) of single family
residential structures; or
   B.   If a minimum twenty percent (20%) single family dwellings are evident
on the same street at a minimum distance of two hundred feet (200') on either
side of where the subject lot is located; or
   C.   if a single family residential dwelling exists on at least one side
adjoining the subject lot.
If anyone or combination of these qualifying conditions exist, then no
conditional use permit is necessary to process assimilation of the desired
single family residential structure.
Signs:
   A.   Signs in accordance to Section
9-4-12 (A) Residential Districts.
   B.   On-premises signs, including illuminated, portable, or animated signs,
on common lots approved for recreational or temporary commercial facilities in
accordance with adopted City ordinances. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord.
37-07-21, 7-6-2021; Ord. 61-09-22, 9-6-2022; Ord. 67-10-22, 10-4-2022)
10-7-3: DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS 1 :
A development designed as a mobile home, modular home or recreational vehicle
park or subdivision shall meet all requirements of the mobile home and
recreational vehicle park provisions and any applicable sections of the
subdivision provisions in Title 9 of this Code. At no time may an existing
mobile home, modular home or recreational vehicle park be converted to a mobile
home, modular home or recreational vehicle subdivision without first meeting
all the requirements of the subdivision provisions in Title 9 of this Code and
receiving approval by the Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 9, Chapter 5 of this Code.
10-7-4: SETBACKS:
All setbacks shall be as required under Title 9 of this Code. (Ord. 95-04-04,
4-4-1995)
10-7-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Site-built single-family residential structure on mobile home lots only; must
meet minimum square footage requirements for a single-family residential
dwelling. (Ord. 22-04-21, 4-20-2021)
CHAPTER 8
C-1 LIGHT COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-8-1: Application Of Provisions
10-8-2: Permitted Uses
10-8-3: Conditional Uses
10-8-4: Business Establishments
10-8-5: Type Of Building Facility Permitted
10-8-6: Gasoline Service Stations And Retail Outlets - Generally
10-8-7: Gasoline Service Stations And Retail Outlets - Location Of Curb Cuts
Restricted
10-8-8: Gasoline Service Stations And Retail Outlets - Front Yard Setbacks,
Etc.
10-8-9: Gasoline Service Stations And Retail Outlets - Lighting; Buffer
Requirement
10-8-10: Gasoline Service Stations And Retail Outlets - Minimum Lot Area
10-8-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to the C-1 light commercial district.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-8-2: PERMITTED USES:
A building or premises shall be used only for the following purposes:
Anything in category R-2.
A single-family residential structure existing on or before April 1, 1995, or
enlargement or improvement to any such structure provided that the structure
before and after the enlargement or improvement meets the setback requirements
for a residential structure as set out in chapter 5 of this title.
Laundromats, laundry/dry cleaning pick up stations, and laundry/dry cleaning
establishments dealing directly with consumers.
Loan companies, insurance and real estate offices.
Medical offices for general practice physicians, dentists, chiropractors, and
other similar nonspecialized medical professionals.
Parking facilities associated with uses permitted within any residential or
commercial districts.
Personal services which perform services on the premises such as repair shops
(watches, radios, TV stores, etc.), tailor shops, beauty parlors or
barbershops, photographic studios, daycare centers, florists, gift stores,
pharmacies, books/newspapers/magazines and similar uses, but not including
automotive parts or repair services.
Retail business that sells products for consumption at restaurants, taquerias,
delicatessens, coffee shops, convenience stores, meat markets, produce markets,
bakeries, tortillerias, ice cream stores, and similar uses.
Signs:
   A.   Signs in accordance with Section
9-4-1 (B) Light Commercial District.
   B.   On premises signs, including those that are animated or illuminated.
(Ord. 18-09-08, 9-9-2008; amd. Ord. 67-10-22, 10-4-2022)
10-8-3: CONDITIONAL USES 1 :
The conditional uses requiring a conditional use permit permitted in the C-
1 light commercial districts are as follows:
A single-family residence.
Flea markets.
Gasoline service stations or retail outlets where gasoline products are sold.
Mobile food vendor; mobile food court; said uses must comply with Title 3,
Chapter 17 regulations, as well as applicable provisions of Title 10, Chapter
13 'Conditional Use Permits' and be strictly compliant with the 'Commercial
Corridor - Restricted Use' provision declared in Section
10-2-2.
Neighborhood Bars; a pre-existing 'bar' that historically has served a
neighborhood for a minimum of five (5) continuous years and has assimilated
well within the fabric of its (mixed use) neighborhood, but which may be
desired to operate under new ownership (w/CUP approval/compliance); said 'bars'
must erect and perpetually maintain a minimum six foot (6') buffer from any
adjoining residential uses; such a proposed CUP will comply, if possible, with
the city's prevailing landscaping codes; the CUP grantee must buffer any
dumpster trash bin via prevailing ordinances, and must have paved and striped
parking where, if needed, such should be re-furbished via the city's property
maintenance codes; if additional street lighting is needed to maximize
security, such shall be assessed to be required during the CUP process; if
paved sidewalks are needed to maximize pedestrian security, such may also be
assessed to be imposed during the CUP process; the bar's ownership/management
shall also be responsible to have the exterior premises and perimeter street
areas free from any littering that was seemingly induced by the bars' patrons;
and the City reserves its right under its police powers to require on-site
security if circumstances are confirmed that such a measure will restore safety
to the site/general area. No 'Neighborhood Bar’ CUP shall be operated by any
new owner(s) without first securing his/her own city business license which may
impose a fire hydrant (if needed); furthermore, no such CUP shall be
transferable to new owner(s) without first undergoing the prevailing CUP
process.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 15-07-06, 7-18-2006; Ord. 14-03-21, 2-16-
2021; Ord. 73-1-24, 1-2-2024; Ord. 82-2-24, 2-27-2024)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 13 of this title for conditional use permits.
10-8-4: BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS:
All business establishments in the C-1 light commercial districts shall be
retail services establishments dealing directly with consumers. All goods
produced on the premises shall be sold at retail prices on premises where
produced. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-8-5: TYPE OF BUILDING FACILITY PERMITTED:
All business servicing or processing in the C-1 light commercial districts
shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building, except for off street
parking or loading, excluding drive-in businesses or gasoline service stations
or retail outlets where gasoline products are sold. No building shall exceed
thirty feet (30') in height. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-8-6: GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS AND RETAIL OUTLETS - GENERALLY:
Gasoline service stations or retail outlets in the C-1 light commercial
district, where gasoline products are sold at retail prices, are limited in
their activity to the sale of gasoline, oil and minor accessories only, and
incidental service. Repair work, steam cleaning or undercoating, vehicle body
repair, painting, tire recapping, engine rebuilding, auto dismantling,
upholstery, auto glasswork and such other activities whose external effects
could adversely extend beyond the property line are not permitted. (Ord. 95-04-
04, 4-4-1995)
10-8-7: GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS AND RETAIL OUTLETS - LOCATION OF CURB CUTS
RESTRICTED:
The curb cut, or ingress and egress to gasoline service stations, retail
outlets for gasoline products and/or drive-in business in the C-1 light
commercial districts shall not be permitted at locations where it will tend to
create traffic hazards in the streets immediately adjacent thereto. Entrances
shall be no less than twenty five feet (25') from any street intersection,
measured from the right of way. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-8-8: GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS AND RETAIL OUTLETS - FRONT YARD SETBACKS,
ETC.:
A front yard setback of sixty feet (60') from the right of way of any existing
or proposed street shall be maintained by gasoline service stations or retail
outlets where gasoline products are sold in the C-1 light commercial districts
unless otherwise approved by the planning and zoning commission. Gas pumps and
canopies may be placed within the setback not less than nine feet (9') from the
property line, or ten feet (10') from the curb, whichever is greater. Otherwise
no front yard or side yard setback is required. Rear yard setback of not less
than fifteen feet (15') is required. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-8-9: GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS AND RETAIL OUTLETS - LIGHTING; BUFFER
REQUIREMENT:
In all commercial districts, all lighting shall be shielded as best as possible
from adjacent residential zoning districts and residential uses. A minimum 6'
to 8' high wall or wood fence shall be provided by all gasoline service
stations, retail outlets where gasoline products are sold, drive-in businesses,
or other commercial user when abutting or adjacent to either a residential zone
or residential land use. Dependent on circumstances of compatibility and
expected noise generation from the commercial user, such fence buffer may also
be required by the City even if an intervening alley exists between the
residential and nonresidential property, especially if said nonresidential user
does not plan to actively use the alley.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 45-09-23, 9-5-2023)
10-8-10: GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS AND RETAIL OUTLETS - MINIMUM LOT AREA:
The minimum lot area of a gas service station or a retail outlet where gasoline
products are sold in the C-1 light commercial districts should be thirteen
thousand (13,000) square feet and so arranged that ample space is available for
motor vehicles which are required to wait, except that gasoline service
stations, and minor accessories having no facilities for repair or servicing
automobiles may be permitted on lots of less than thirteen thousand (13,000)
square feet subject to all other provisions required in this chapter. The
minimum lot area is six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square feet, the
minimum depth is one hundred feet (100') and the minimum average width is fifty
feet (50'); except, that if a lot or track should have less area or width than
is herein required and its boundary lines along their lengths should touch
lands under other ownership on January 15, 1981, and shall not have been
changed since said date, such parcel of land may be used for a single-family
dwelling. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
CHAPTER 9
C COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-9-1: Permitted/Conditional Uses
10-9-2: Height Regulations
10-9-3: Building Setback Regulations
10-9-4: Intensity Of Use
10-9-1: PERMITTED/CONDITIONAL USES:
   A.   Permitted Uses: A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      All non-residential uses in the C-1 district.
      A grandfathered residential structure is, in effect, a ‘permitted use’
with vested rights and may be permitted to expand its structural boundaries
subject to compliance to prevailing section on residential building setbacks
or, if evident, the specific building setbacks recorded on its subdivision
plat.
      Any retail business; provided that such use is not noxious or offensive
by reason of vibrations, smoke, odor, dust, gas or noise. A retail ‘Dollar’
type store shall be strictly compliant with the ‘Commercial Corridor -
Restricted Use’ provision declared in Section
10-2-2.
      Automobile parking lots.
      Automobile repair garage.
      Automobile salesroom and accompanying service facilities.
      Bank.
      Billiard or pool hall.
      Car Wash businesses shall be strictly compliant with the ‘Commercial
Corridor - Restricted Use’ provision declared in Section
10-2-2.
      Cleaning, pressing and dyeing plants.
      Clinic.
      Dance hall and skating rink.
      Filling stations, service stations; provided that all storage tanks for
gasoline shall be below the surface of the ground.
      Frozen food locker plant.
      Garage, public.
      Hospitals, and Animal hospitals.
      Hotel.
      Ice retail distributing stations; no manufacturing.
      Job printing.
      Laundries.
      Lodge halls.
      Mortuaries.
      Movie, cinema and/or performing arts theater.
      Outdoor sales; subject to title 3, chapter 11 of this code.
      Radio repair and sales shops.
      Radio studios.
      Restaurants.
      Signs in accordance to Section
9-4-12 (C) Commercial and Industrial Districts.
      Storage facility (individually leased/rented units).
      Stores and shops for the sale of products at retail only.
   B.   Conditional Uses 1 : A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      Bars and nightclubs.
      Business recycling facility (prohibited in the commercial corridor) (see
Sec.
10-13-8(A)(8)).
      Businesses, such as restaurants, that desire to sell alcoholic beverages
for on-site consumption. Such restaurants may be within 300' of a residence,
church, school l, or publicly owned property.
      Flea markets.
      Mobile food vendor; mobile food court; said uses must comply with Title
3, Chapter 17 regulations, as well as applicable provisions of Title 10,
Chapter 13 ‘Conditional Use Permits’ and be strictly compliant with the
‘Commercial Corridor - Restricted Use’ provision declared in Section
10-2-2.
      Single-family residences; multi-family units or condominiums.
      Vendors Market.
      Wrecker services; (See Section
10-13-8 A. 6. on applicable wrecker regulations to abide by). (Ord. 95-04-04,
4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 1996-04-16, 4-16-1996; Ord. 15-07-06, 7-18-2006; Ord. 28-
11-09, 11-10-2009; Ord. 03-01-21, - -2021; 04-01-21, 1-19-2021; Ord. 14-03-21,
2-16-2021; Ord. 46-09-21, 9-7-2021; Ord. 10-02-22, 2-1-2022; Ord. 62-09-22, 9-
6-2022; Ord. 67-10-22, 10-4-2022; Ord. 62-11-23, 11-6-2023; Ord. 73-1-24, 1-2-
2024; Ord. 155-12-24, 12-17-2024; Ord. 174-04-25, 4-15-2025)
 
Notes
1 1 See chapter 13 of this title for conditional use permits.
10-9-2: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed seventy five feet (75') in height. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-
4-1995)
10-9-3: BUILDING SETBACK REGULATIONS:
   A.   Front Yard: None required; unless recorded plat note mandates
otherwise.
   B.   Side Yards: None required; unless recorded plat note mandates
otherwise; also, the minimum corner side yard building setback is ten feet
(10'); if building the structure with 0' side setback or hardly any side
setback, the prevailing building and fire-safety codes shall be applied.
   C.   Rear Yard: fifteen feet (15').
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 62-11-23, 11-6-2023)
10-9-4: INTENSITY OF USE:
The minimum lot area is six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square feet, the
minimum depth is one hundred feet (100') and the minimum average width is fifty
feet (50'); except, that if a lot or track should have less area or width than
is herein required and its boundary lines along their lengths should touch
lands under other ownership on January 15, 1981, and shall not have been
changed since said date, such parcel of land may be used for a single-family
dwelling. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
CHAPTER 10
M INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-10-1: Application Of Provisions
10-10-2: Permitted
10-10-2A: Conditional Uses
10-10-3: Height Regulations
10-10-4: Yard Regulations
10-10-5: Intensity Of Use
10-10-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The following regulations shall apply to the M industrial district. (Ord. 95-
04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-10-2: PERMITTED USES 1 :
   Business recycling facility (prohibited in the commercial corridor) (see
Sec.
10-13-8(A)(8)).
   Cement or lime manufacture.
   Distillation of bones.
   Fat rendering.
   Grain elevators and/or cotton gins.
   Manufacture of acid, fertilizer or glue.
   Outdoor sales; subject to title 3, chapter 11 of this code.
   Petroleum refinery.
   Signs in accordance to Section
9-4-12 (C) Commercial and Industrial Districts.
   Wholesale storage of gasoline or other petroleum products in carload lots or
more above ground.
   Any other non-hazardous use that would typically be found in an industrially
zoned property. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 28-11-09, 11-10-2009; Ord.
10-02-22, 2-1-2022; Ord. 67-10-22, 10-4-2022; Ord. 116-8-24, 8-6-2024; Ord.
174-04-25, 4-15-2025)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 13 of this title for conditional use permits.
10-10-2A: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses shall be subject to the CUP regulations found in
Title 10, Chapter 13; as deemed applicable:
   Explosives manufacture or storage
   Junkyards or automobile wrecking yards
   Slaughter, dressing and processing of animals such as poultry, etc.; also,
stockyards
   Any other use that is generally considered to be potentially hazardous to
nearby structures, residences, and/or property. (Ord. 116-8-24, 8-6-2024)
10-10-3: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed a height of six (6) stories or seventy five feet
(75'). (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-10-4: YARD REGULATIONS:
The building setbacks shall be subject to the Fire Marshal’s safety access
regulations which shall supersede the following typical setbacks:
   A.   Front Yard (primary bldgs.):      40'
   B.   Front Yard (open carports, awnings):   20'
   C.   Front Yard (sentry bldg.):         15'
   D.   Side Yard:               10'
   E.   Rear Yard:               15'
   F.   Rear Yard (minor accessory bldg.):   10'
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 116-8-24, 8-6-2024)
10-10-5: INTENSITY OF USE:
   A.   Minimum lot size:   12,000 square feet
   B.   Minimum lot width:   150'
   C.   Minimum lot depth:   200'
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 116-8-24, 8-6-2024)
CHAPTER 11
VARIANCES/NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-11-1: Variances
10-11-2: Nonconforming Use Of Land
10-11-3: Nonconforming Use Of Building
10-11-1: VARIANCES:
   A.   Where the terms of this title relating to the use, construction or
alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land will impose upon the
landowner practical difficulties or particular hardship, the Zoning Board of
Adjustment may consider and allow variations of the strict application of the
terms of this title if the variations are in harmony with the general purpose
and intent of this title and the Zoning Board of Adjustment is satisfied under
the evidence heard by it that a granting of the variation will not merely serve
as a convenience to the applicant but will alleviate some demonstrable hardship
or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation from the comprehensive plan by
this title created.
   B.   Any person aggrieved by a decision by an authorized city official,
relating to the enforcement or interpretation of this title, shall have the
right to file an application for a variance hereunder within ten (10) business
days from the date of such decision or action. (Ord. 3-16-00-01, 5-16-2000;
amd. Ord. 68-10-22, 10-4-2022)
10-11-2: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
The nonconforming use of land, where no building is involved existing on April
1, 1995, may be continued for a period of not more than two (2) years
therefrom; provided that no such nonconforming use of land shall in any way be
expanded or extended either on the same or adjoining property and that if such
nonconforming use of land is discontinued or changed then future use of land
shall be in conformity with regulations of the district in which it lies. (Ord.
95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-11-3: NONCONFORMING USE OF BUILDING:
Except as otherwise provided or on April 1, 1995, if the amendments to this
title at that date cause any building to be then nonconforming, the
nonconforming use of a building may be continued and the use of a nonconforming
building may be changed to another use of the same or more restricted
classification. A nonconforming building which is or may hereafter become
vacant and which shall remain unoccupied or its nonconforming use discontinued
for a continuous period of one year shall not thereafter be occupied, except by
a use which conforms to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
A nonconforming building may be maintained or kept in good repair, except as
otherwise provided in this section. No existing nonconforming building may be
enlarged or altered unless its use is changed to a use permitted in the
district in which such building is located, except in the event such
enlargement, extension, reconstruction or alteration is required by court
decision, law or ordinance. No nonconforming building shall be moved in whole
or in part to any location on the lot unless every portion of such building is
made to conform to all regulations of the district in which it is located. A
nonconforming building which is damaged by fire, explosion, flood, wind,
earthquake or other calamity or act of God or the public enemy to the extent of
fifty percent (50%) or more of its reasonable market value may not be restored,
except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
located. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
CHAPTER 12
SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
10-12-1: Community Unit Plan
10-12-1: COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN:
When the City Planning and Zoning Commission is petitioned by an agency of the
City, County, State or Federal government or by the owner of a tract of land
comprising an area of not less than ten (10) acres and said agency or owner
applies for a change in zoning from R-1 or R-2 Single- or Two-Family
Residential classification to a more intense use and whereby the provisions for
off-street parking facilities, screening walls, fences or planting open space
would create a protective transition between a less restricted district and
more restricted district, the City Planning and Zoning Commission may, within
its discretion, make the following recommendations to the Board of
Commissioners:
   A.   Recommend against the change in zoning.
   B.   Recommend a change in zoning.
   C.   Recommend that a community unit plan for such area be reviewed and,
after public hearing, as prescribed in Chapter 14 of this Title, grant a change
in zoning subject to the conformance with an approved site plan, said site plan
to indicate the provisions for drainage, parking space, street layout,
protective screening and open space. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
CHAPTER 13
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Purpose
10-13-2: Approval, Procedure, Responsibility And Appeals
10-13-3: Application, Filing Procedures And Fees
10-13-4: Site Plans Required
10-13-5: Requirements For Approval
10-13-6: Development, Revocation And/Or Automatic Cancellation Of Permit
10-13-7: Period Of Conditional Use And Renewal
10-13-8: Requirements Of Conditional Use
10-13-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the regulations described by this chapter is to allow the
compatible and orderly development within the city, of uses which may be
suitable only in certain locations in a zoning district if developed in a
specific way or only for a limited period of time. A conditional use permit is
required for all conditional uses as set forth in the conditional use paragraph
of each use district. At no time may a structure or property be adapted to a
conditional use without first obtaining a conditional use permit. (Ord. 95-04-
04, 4-4-1995)
10-13-2: APPROVAL, PROCEDURE, RESPONSIBILITY AND APPEALS:
The city's planning director shall have the responsibility for processing all
permits required for conditional uses and presenting them to the planning and
zoning commission for processing as described below. The following procedures
shall be complied with prior to the approval or denial of any conditional use
permit:
   A.   Notice to all owners of real property within two hundred feet (200') of
the property for which application has been made shall be mailed, but in no
case shall this notification occur less than ten (10) working days prior to
consideration at a meeting of the planning and zoning commission to consider
such application.
   B.   Application concerning permits for those uses which are conditional
shall be automatically referred to the planning and zoning commission for a
public hearing. The planning director shall investigate, notify the adjacent
property owners and provide necessary professional advice. The planning and
zoning commission may deny an application for a conditional use permit after a
public hearing if the proposed use fails to meet one of the criteria set forth
in requirements for approval.
   C.   Appeal shall be in accordance with this title. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-
1995)
10-13-3: APPLICATION, FILING PROCEDURES AND FEES:
The property owner or authorized agent shall make application on a form
prescribed by the city, and such application shall include site plan drawings
and floor plans, if applicable, as set forth in Section
10-13-4  of this Chapter. Obtaining a conditional use permit does not exempt
the applicant from complying with requirements of the building code or other
applicable ordinances. The fee for a conditional use permit shall be $300;
however, if the applicant or his authorized agent request that it be ‘Tabled’
and the request is honored, the applicant/agent will then pay $150 before the
City re-activates the administrative CUP process once again. Payment of such
fees shall not be refundable in whole or in part. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995;
amd. Ord. 125-9-2024, 9-3-2024)
10-13-4: SITE PLANS REQUIRED:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the site plan is to ensure compliance with this
chapter and to assist in the orderly and harmonious development of the city,
the stability of land values and investments, and enhancement of the general
welfare.
   B.   Recording: The applicant shall file with the planning director one copy
of a site plan.
   C.   Contents: The site plan shall contain drawings to scale to indicate as
needed:
      1.   The location of all structures on the subject property and on
adjoining property;
      2.   Landscaping and/or fencing of yards and setback areas and proposed
changes;
      3.   Design of ingress and egress;
      4.   Off street parking and loading facilities;
      5.   Height of all structures;
      6.   Proposed uses; and
      7.   The location and types of all signs, including lighting and heights.
(Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-13-5: REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission may permit a conditional use subject
to appropriate conditions and safeguards when the commission finds:
      1.   That the proposed use meets all the minimum standards established in
this chapter and other applicable ordinances.
      2.   In particular regard to continuous loud noise that may violate the
city's noise regulations of Title 4, Chapter 5, and/or because of seemingly un-
controlled CUP induced parking that consistently spills over onto residential
areas, it is declared that any approved conditional use permit will not be
detrimental to the reasonable repose and comfort of area residents; nor will
any awarded CUP injure or compromise the health, welfare and safety of the
surrounding neighborhood or its occupants; nor shall the awarded CUP be
substantially or permanently injurious to neighboring property. Reiterating a
special regard to the noise regulations of Title 4, Chapter 5, it is hereby
decreed that any confirmed and verified violation(s) to these noise provisions
will induce immediate code enforcement processes to be activated and, depending
on prompt compliance or the lack thereof, the city may determine to commence
the public hearing process to revoke the CUP.
   B.   Appeal of a decision of the planning and zoning commission shall be to
the city commission. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 35-07-23, 7-11-2023)
10-13-6: DEVELOPMENT, REVOCATION AND/OR AUTOMATIC CANCELLATION OF PERMIT:
   A.   The building official shall ensure compliance with this chapter and the
conditional use permit. He shall:
      1.   Make inspections to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter and the conditional use permit, and initiate appropriate action if
necessary.
      2.   Investigate thoroughly any complaints of noncompliance concerning a
permitted special use, and keep a record of all complaints, indicating any
action taken. These records shall be made available at the time of renewal of
the conditional use permit.
   B.   Upon determination of noncompliance with the provisions of the
conditional use permit, the building official shall take action as follows:
      1.   Give written notice to the permit holder of the nature of the
violation, the necessary action to remedy the violation, and the time period,
not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days after the date of
notification, within which to comply.
      2.   Notify the planning and zoning commission of the noncompliance if
the violations have not been corrected within the prescribed time period.
      3.   Appeal shall be in accordance with this title.
   C.   The planning and zoning commission, after due hearing, may revoke any
conditional use permit that has been reported in violation by the building
official. Continued use without a conditional use permit will be a violation of
this chapter and subject to the penalties provided in this code.
   D.   If a conditional use permit has not been used within six (6) months
after the date granted, the permit is automatically canceled. (Ord. 95-04-04,
4-4-1995)
10-13-7: PERIOD OF CONDITIONAL USE AND RENEWAL:
A conditional Use permit for home occupations, bar or lounge and daycare
facilities shall have a time limit of not more than one year unless otherwise
approved by the Board of Commissioners. If the conditional use permit has a
time limitation attached, the expiration date shall be set forth in the
enabling and adopted CUP ordinance. Any permittee wishing a renewal of such
conditional use permit for a successive time period shall file an application
for renewal approximately thirty (30) days before the permit expiration date
and shall meet the following conditions:
   A.   A one-hundred and fifty dollar ($150.00) renewal fee shall be paid by
the permittee;
   B.   For applicable CUP items, the renewal for the conditional use permit
shall be pursuant to normal public posting and mail-out protocol.
   C.   The City Building inspector and Fire Marshal shall always have the
right to conduct a facility inspection on the CUPs’ premises to determine if
the building is in compliance with prevailing building and fire codes;   I
   D.   If no violations are found during the renewal/inspection process, and
if no complaints meriting legitimacy have been filed at the City, then the
renewal process proceeds administratively through the Department of Community
Planning and Development for approval;
   E.   If, however, bona fide complaints were filed at the City; or the
building is in moderate-to-severe violation of building, electrical, plumbing,
mechanical and/or fire codes, then the renewal process must proceed to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of Commissioners for consideration
and action. (Ord. 10-05-03, 5-20-2003; amd. Ord. 142-11-24, 11-6-2024)
10-13-8: REQUIREMENTS OF CONDITIONAL USE:
   A.   The requirements to be met for each use shall be as follows:
      1.   Home Occupations: The applicable conditions for home occupations
shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.   The area used in conducting the home occupation will be clearly
secondary to the residential use.
         b.   One nameplate attached to the building not larger than two (2)
square feet is permitted in all districts except R-1 single-family residential
district.
         c.   There shall be no exterior display or alterations indicated that
the building is being used for any purpose other than that of a dwelling.
         d.   There shall be no more than one additional unrelated employee
other than immediate members of the family residing on the premises.
         e.   There shall be no outside storage of materials or products.
         f.   The permitted use shall not create frequent or heavy traffic, not
greater than ten percent (10%) of the average load per hour as determined by
the traffic safety engineer of the city.
         g.   No retail sales (items can be delivered).
         h.   No additions to the residence or accessory buildings specifically
to accommodate the business.
         i.   The business must take place in the primary residential structure
on the property rather than in a detached garage or separate accessory
building.
         j.   The activity must take place at the location for which the permit
was issued.
      2.   Entertainment Establishments: Bars, cocktail lounges, taverns,
cantinas, saloons, dance halls, discotheques, discos, or nightclubs:
         a.   The property line of the lot of any of the above mentioned
businesses, especially those businesses having late hours (after 10:00 P.M.),
must be at least three hundred feet (300') from the nearest residence, and/or
church, school, or publicly owned (institutional) property. Such entertainment
establishments must provide six feet (6') to eight feet (8') fence buffering so
that the business is not visible from said residential/institutional areas; and
provide sufficient soundproof insulation of the building such that the business
cannot be heard from residential/institutional areas. Furthermore, such
entertainment establishments must be designed to minimize damage of the
character of nearby residential areas. Regarding the 300-foot regulation cited
above, the Zoning Board of Adjustments shall not have stewardship for variance
review but it shall be delegated to the Planning and Zoning Commission who may,
under extenuating or special circumstances unique to the site or event,
recommend waiver of the 300-foot requirement to the Board of Commissioners who
shall have ultimate decision on the matter. On the occasion when a variance is
sought to the 300-foot distance, the residential/institutional property owners
within this radius shall be justly notified of the (CUP) public hearings; thus,
the process being fully transparent and due process legitimately complied with.
         b.   The above mentioned businesses must be as close as possible to a
major arterial, and shall not allow the traffic generated by such businesses
onto residential streets, or allow such traffic to exit into and disrupt
residential areas.
         c.   The above mentioned businesses must provide parking in accordance
with the city off street parking ordinance as a minimum, and make provisions to
prevent use of adjacent streets for parking, especially those in adjacent
residential areas, by providing additional on site parking.
         d.   The above mentioned businesses must do everything possible to
prevent the unauthorized parking by the patrons of such businesses on adjacent
business or residential properties including, when necessary, the installation
of fences and hedges, and the reorientation of entrances.
         e.   The above mentioned businesses should do everything possible and
be designed to discourage criminal activities and vandalism, both on the site
and on adjacent properties. Included would be provision of sufficient lighting
and perimeter fencing, elimination of dark areas, and the orientation of the
building such that it provides maximum visibility of as much as possible of the
site from a public street.
         f.   The above mentioned businesses must make provisions to keep
litter to a minimum, and to keep it from blowing onto adjacent streets and
properties.
      3.   Personal Wireless Service Facility: The applicable conditions for a
personal wireless service facility include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Maximum height of pole or tower structure of one hundred twenty
feet (120') within a commercial or industrial district;
         b.   Only one pole or tower structure allowed per lot within a
commercial or industrial district;
         c.   Minimum spacing between poles and tower structures within
commercial or industrial district of one thousand feet (1,000') measured in a
direct line from another tower or structure;
         d.   Minimum setback of twenty five feet (25') from property line, ten
feet (10') from side yard and ten feet (10') from rear, unless greater
requirements as noted on subdivision plat;
         e.   Buffering of ground site including fence and landscape material
required if pole or tower structure located within the front or side yard, or
adjacent to a residential use or district;
         f.   The pole or tower structure will be constructed or installed with
the capabilities of locating thereon additional personal wireless service
facilities. The applicant agrees to cooperate with other personal wireless
service facilities on permitted support structures. A permittee shall exercise
good faith in collocating with other providers and sharing the permitted
structure, provided such shared use does not give rise to a substantial
technical level impairment of the ability to provide the permitted use (i.e., a
significant interference in broadcast or reception capabilities as opposed to a
competitive conflict or financial burden). Such good faith shall include
sharing technical information to evaluate the feasibility of collocation. In
the event a dispute arises as to whether a permittee has exercised good faith
in accommodating other users, the city may require a third party technical
study at the expense of either or both the applicant and permittee;
         g.   All conditional use applicants shall demonstrate reasonable
efforts in developing a collocation alternative for their proposed personal
wire service facility site;
         h.   Failure to comply with the collocation requirements of this
section may result in the denial of a permit request or revocation of an
existing permit.
      4.   Daycare Facilities: The applicable requirements for daycare
facilities include, but are not limited to:
         a.   Must be licensed by the state of Texas;
         b.   Must have a minimum six foot (6') high fenced in area for outside
activities of children;
         c.   Must have a privacy fence buffer between adjacent properties;
         d.   Must have off street paved area adjacent to street for pick up
and delivery of children;
         e.   The building used for daycare facilities must be constructed to
serve as a residential dwelling, and the building’s exterior roof and facade
must conform to the architectural characteristics and overall appearance of the
residential district;
         f.   No part of a daycare facility shall be within a radius of one
thousand feet (1,000') of another daycare facility, as measured from any point
on the property line of each respective facility’s property;
         g.   No daycare facility shall be permitted on a half street;
         h.   Daycare facilities which care for more than forty (40) children
shall not be permitted in a residential district;
         i.   No on site signage of any kind shall be permitted to advertise
the daycare facility other than a one square foot nonilluminated nameplate
bearing the person’s name and occupation may be displayed if attached flat
against the front wall of the building;
         j.   If the person operating the daycare facility is not the owner of
the property, then the application must be signed by the owner or a letter of
authorization from the owner must be submitted.
      5.   Parking facilities for nonresidential uses: The applicable
requirements for parking facilities include but are not limited to:
         a.   Access shall not be granted through the residential neighborhood
street or lot frontage.
         b.   A minimum six feet (6') opaque buffer fence (Block, Brick or
Cedar) shall be installed to divide the residential uses from the non-
residential uses.
         c.   The non -residential parking shall only be used during the hours
of operation of the adjacent commercial business for which the additional
parking is intended to serve.
         d.   Any proposed commercial lighting shall be affixed with downcast
lighting to illuminate the parking area only and not to affect the residential
areas.
         e.   Must be constructed of asphalt or concrete as required by the
City’s parking ordinance.
         f.   Shall provide an engineered drainage plan in order to ensure
proper drainage that will not affect the residential properties.
         h.   Shall install any necessary sidewalks in compliance with ADA
requirements.
         i.   Shall not be utilized for the parking of large commercial
vehicles or semi-truck parking.
         j.   Shall comply with any other requirements imposed by the Planning
and Zoning Commission and the Alamo Board of Commissioners.
      6.   Wrecker Services: The following regulations, though not all
inclusive, shall be complied with:
         a.   Must be in full compliance of applicable provisions of Title 6,
Chapter 6 - Wreckers, as these regulations pertain to State Inspections;
vehicle safety certifications; annual fees and inspection fees; driver vetting
and registration; insurance requirements; no delinquent taxes due on the
vehicle storage facility; Police Chief assessment and approval protocol,
including abiding by approved maximum towing service fees, or reasonable fees
pursuant to circumstances of the accident/incident; being placed on the city’s
rotation list; plus all other measures of Chapter 6. However, in regard to
Chapter 6, Sec. 6-6-7 Suspension or Revocation of Permit Hearing, this PD
procedure shall defer to the Development, Revocation and/or Automatic
Cancellation protocol as ordained by the Board of Commissioners in Title 10,
Section 10-13-6 wherein the Police Department’s evidentiary hearing can be
included in this process.
         b.   Any and all proposed signage must be pre-approved pursuant to the
City’s Sign Ordinance and any applicable provision(s) of Title 6, Chapter 6,
prior to issuance of the required sign permit.
         c.   Landscaping regulations will be applied should the subject site
not be fully compliant to the commercial landscaping standard(s).
         d.   Drainage detention will be applied should the subject site not be
fully compliant to the city’s prevailing storm frequency requirement. An
engineered plan can be required by the city, if the property’s (proposed)
impermeable surface is found extensive and may have a detrimental spillover
effect to adjoining property/properties. After improving the wrecker property
to its final occupancy status, the measure of permeable detention will
substantially be the same as before improvement, i.e., there should be no
substantial increased drainage flow onto adjoiners.
         e.   A business license/permit must be secured for the new wrecker
service. In this process, the Building Codes, Fire Codes, Paving Codes, etc.,
will all be complied with. Also, if the Fire Marshal determines that the
commercial use will require an additional fire hydrant, then this shall be
installed by the applicant pursuant to the city’s utility policies, and must be
enabled prior to occupancy.
         f.   If the Planning Director determines that paved sidewalks are
needed to maximize pedestrian safety and magnify neighborhood assimilation,
then this may be imposed, and the sidewalk(s) constructed (or construction cost
escrowed with the City of Alamo) prior to occupancy.
         g.    No wrecker CUP shall be transferable to any new owner(s); the
prerequisite CUP public hearing requirements must be fully processed and
complied with prior to activation by any new owner.
         h.   No CUP shall be issued to a wrecker service if it is within one-
thousand feet (1000') to another wrecker service’s vehicle storage facility
(VSF), to be measured from nearest point to nearest point; except that on
commercially zoned properties along U.S. Expressway 83 or U.S. Business Highway
83, and commercially zoned properties between said major thoroughfares east of
Tower Road, the 1000' VSF interval may be suspended dependent on the
applicant’s site plan, especially as it pertains to uniform fencing/buffering.
It is further expressed that should there be one (1) commercially zoned
property that desires to house several VSFs within the specific boundaries just
cited. this may be permitted during the CUP process, but only if there will be
a uniformly built eight foot (8') fence/buffer that contains the multiple VSFs;
thus. visually appearing to the normal passerby that the stored vehicles are in
a single VSF. Any signage for multiple VSFs in a single property will afford
only one tenant sign; the containment security fence will not have any
markings. phone numbers, insignias, etc.
         i.   Security lighting shall be mandated of the wrecker service with
strong inclination for internal downcast lighting, especially where there may
be residential areas nearby. Adequate lighting must be evident so vehicle
owners may satisfactorily inspect their vehicle for damages during evening
hours.
         j.   Minimum six feet (6') opaque or solid buffer fence/wall shall be
required around all the entire perimeter of the vehicle storage facility. As it
pertains to CUP applicants, such buffering shall be constructed of wood fencing
and/or masonry material on the property’s side that is most visible to passing
motorists and the general public; however, should circumstances warrant,
similar type of buffering may also be imposed to the vehicle storage facility’s
other sides, too. At the facility’s entry/exit gate, such buffering shall be
indented sufficiently inward to allow for the wrecker vehicle(s) to temporarily
park off-the-street while pending entry into the storage yard.
         k.   The vehicle storage facility shall have all-weather surface
wherein stored vehicles are (temporarily) placed. Such all-weather surface
material shall be considered ‘impermeable’ for square footage calculations as
it relates to drainage detention purposes.
         l.   A wrecker CUP shall initially be approved for one (1) year,
reflecting the intent of being commercially enabled for one year prior to re-
assessment/possible renewal to provide a fair tenure to consider renewal. It is
noted here that, pursuant to Title 10, Chapter 13, Sec. 10-13-6 (D), the
applicant shall have six (6) months to fully activate and comply with all
applicable wrecker regulations, or else the CUP shall be deemed null and void.
         m.   The City of Alamo reserves the right to impose other reasonable
restrictions and measures to a wrecker CUP, at any time, in order to maximize
assimilation to its neighborhood.
      7.   Vendors Market: The following regulations, though not all-inclusive,
shall be complied with:
         a.   The location of a vendors market shall be on property that has a
commercial zoning district.
         b.   The location of a vendors market may be within an enclosed
facility or open-air parking lot or exterior paved area; if in a paved parking
lot, the total number of ‘available’ parking spaces shall be sufficient for
both the existing business(es) and the vendors market’s occupied areas. No CUP
shall be approved if the number of ‘available’ paved parking spaces are
depleted below the regulatory parking space criteria for the business(es) that
use the same paved parking lot.
         c.   The hours of operation shall no earlier than eight (8:00) A.M.
nor later than seven (7:00) P.M.
         d.   The applicant will assure that his/her vendors shall have valid
food-handler’s certificates that may be verifiable by the County of Hidalgo
Health Department authorities; copies of such will be provided to the City of
Alamo’s Planning Department.
         e.   Paved parking shall be sufficient for the private vehicles of
each vendor plus the overall square footage requirement for incoming patrons;
the primary intent is to minimize or eliminate parking from occurring on
adjoining street(s) or on parking lots of other neighboring commercial users
(unless there is signed consent from said neighboring commercial users that
such may occur) if it is observed that the parking is insufficient for the
number of vendors accommodated, then either the number of permitted vendors
must be eroded or additional paved parking must be secured via prevailing
ordinances, i.e., written consent of any nearby commercial properties.
         f.   A business license for a ‘vendors market’ must be secured by the
CUP applicant; thus, assuring that the prevailing zoning codes, building codes,
and fire codes are complied with. In this regard, the Fire Marshal may or may
not require additional fire hydrants to serve the facility, plus require that
‘fire lanes’ or ‘no parking’ be (re)painted in appropriate areas.
         g.   Sufficient accommodations must be made for garbage pick-up where
the garbage container area will comply with prevailing city ordinances,
including (as deemed applicable) to have the container buffered.
         h.   Should there be a required need to hire City of Alamo police
officer(s), then said costs shall be privately paid by the applicant directly
to the off-duty officer. The City of Alamo will not pay for its officers to
provide security to a private business enterprise, within the context of this
CUP process.
         i.   Provide a signed copy of any lease/rent agreement attesting the
owner’s consent of occupancy and the terms thereby. In this regard, there shall
be arrangements made for vendors and patrons to use the business’ restroom
facilities. If this is not a viable option, then any port-a-potty must be shown
on the CUP’s Site Plan; assuring that it is reasonably distant to nearby
residences.
         j.   After one (1) year of operations and as a part of any CUP’s
renewal, the City of Alamo may impose other reasonable conditions to further
assimilate compliance of the subject site to the neighborhood; such
improvements may include perimeter sidewalks, landscaping with trees/three (3)
feet continuous landscape hedging, security lighting, etc.
         k.   There shall be no alcoholic beverages sold for on-site or off-
site consumption whatsoever. Furthermore, no vendor shall consume any alcoholic
beverage during the vendors market event.
         l.   Any signage must comply with prevailing sign code regulations; no
‘flag’ or v-type signs, etc., are permitted.
      8.   Business Recycling Facility (BRF); a commercial venture that
processes, cuts, reduces, or modifies materials to a degree that it may
facilitate the item to be stored and then transported off-site for recycling
purposes. A BRF is prohibited along the City’s Commercial Corridor. Such items
may include, but not be limited to, precious or semiprecious metals, plastics,
paper, canvas, fiber, etc.
         a.   Must secure and acquire any applicable licensing or
certifications that may be required by monitoring County, State, and/or Federal
agencies.
         b.   BRF site must not be less than three (3) acres gross.
         c.   BRF site must be a minimum distance of one-thousand feet (1000')
from any other recycling facility; said separation measured from nearest
property line to nearest property line.
         d.   BRF site is prohibited along the commercial corridor; encouraged
to have frontage to the railroad right-of-way from which to construct a RR spur
to facilitate transportation of modified materials.
         e.   The specific recycling/modifying activity area shall be a minimum
of 300' from any residentially used properties, such that it shall not
detrimentally affect any of the surrounding residential land uses. Storing or
piling of recycling items may be within the 300' interval, though.
         f.   The recycling or modifying of items shall be conducted within an
enclosed structure/building; there shall be no processing, cutting or modifying
of recyclable materials in the open.
         g.   It is expected that there shall be some piles of modified
materials in the project site; as such, a minimum ten foot (10') solid buffer
wall or fence shall be constructed for such a storage area to totally obscure
the stored piles of materials. The buffering wall/fence may be of pre-cast
concrete wall panels, concrete masonry unit (CMU), wood, masonry or masonry
columns in combination with other permitted materials, or any like material.
Accent lighting, at 25' to 35' intervals, in the front of the buffer area is
mandated to maximize aesthetics and deflect optics from the storage of
recycled/modified materials. Aluminum sheet material shall not be permitted. It
is further declared that said buffer shall not have large lettering of the
business site, phone number, or any such character or rendering.
         h.   In conjunction with the 10" buffer, there shall be shade trees
within the storage area to further obstruct any stored piles; such shade trees
shall be a minimum height of fifteen (15') with each tree being a minimum 6"
caliper, spaced at approximately twenty-five (25') from each other. Should a
tree be damaged to the degree that it is not viable, the tree shall be replaced
within thirty (30) calendar days in a like manner as provided in these
regulations.
         i.   The height of the stored piles of processed, cut or modified
materials shall not be visible from the adjoining public street system. Should
there be a pile above the wall’s height to thus be visible, said pile shall not
lowered in height within 24 consecutive hours after the pile became visually
evident.
         j.   The internal access drives in and around the piles shall be of an
all-weather surfaced grade, e.g., paved asphalt, compacted caliche, etc.
         k.   Except for movement noise incidental to any business venture, the
City of Alamo’s Noise Ordinance shall be perpetually complied with as it
currently is written or as said ordinance may be amended.
         l.   Any needful security lighting of the project site shall be
internally downcast, and not installed so as to produce significant amount of
lit glare outside the project site.
         m.   Should there be any perimeter streets that do not have parallel
sidewalks, then as part of the city’s approval, the sidewalk shall be paved
pursuant to prevailing (4' or 5') width codes; such paved sidewalks shall be
completed prior to occupancy, though an extension of a maximum 20 calendar days
may be provided by the City if there are inclement weather issues, public
health issues, or similar circumstances that impedes construction or materials
from being adequately supplied.
      n.   A detention plan, prepared by a professional engineer licensed to
practice in the State of Texas, shall be provided prior to the initial building
permit issuance, reflecting that the City of Alamo’s prevailing detention
policies shall be abided post-construction.
      o.   The City of Alamo’s Fire Marshal, Building Official, Code
Enforcement Officer, and/or other needful city employee shall have the inherent
right and need to make on-site inspections to monitor compliance to prevailing
city ordinances, statutes, etc. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 1-18-00, 1-
18-2000; Ord. 5-16-00, 5-16-2000; Ord. 15-09-10, 9-21-2010; Ord. 13-08-18, 8-7-
2018; Ord. 03-01-21, - -2021; Ord. 06-02-21, 2-2-2021; Ord. 22-04-21, 4-20-
2021; Ord. 86-11-22, 11-22-2022; Ord. 155-12-2024, 12-17-2024; Ord. 174-04-25,
4-15-2025)
CHAPTER 14
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT
SECTION:
10-14-1: Board Established
10-14-2: Membership; Appointment; Terms; Vacancies
10-14-3: Rules Of Order; Meetings
10-14-4: Powers
10-14-5: Application For Variance
10-14-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
A Board of Adjustment is hereby established. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-14-2: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERMS; VACANCIES:
The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five (5) members who are property
owners in the City, each to be appointed for a term of two (2) years and
removed for cause by the Board of Commissioners upon written charges and after
public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member
whose term becomes vacant. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-14-3: RULES OF ORDER; MEETINGS:
The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of this Title.
Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such
other times as the Board may determine. Such chairman or, in his absence, the
acting chairman, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall keep
minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each question
or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact and shall keep records
of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be a public record. The
concurring vote of four (4) members of the Board shall be necessary to reverse
any order, requirement, decision or determination of any administrative
official or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which it is
required to pass under any such ordinance or to effect any variation of such
ordinance. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-14-4: POWERS:
The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
   A.   Hearing Of Appeals: To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged
there is an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by
any administrative official in the enforcement of this Title.
   B.   Variances:
      1.   Where the terms of this Title relating to the use, construction or
alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land will impose upon the
landowner practical difficulties or particular hardship, the Board may consider
and allow variations of the strict application of the terms of this Title if
the variations are in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this Title
and the Board is satisfied under the evidence heard by it that a granting of
the variation will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant but will
alleviate some demonstrable hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a
variation from the Comprehensive Plan by this Title created.
      2.   The Board may authorize a variance where, by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property of record at
the effective date hereof or by reason of exceptional topographical condition
or other extraordinary or exceptional situation or condition of a specific
piece of property, the strict application of a provision of this Title would
result in peculiar and exceptional practical difficulties and particular
hardship upon the owner of the property and amount to a practical confiscation
of the property as distinguished from a mere inconvenience to the owner;
provided, the variation can be granted without substantial detriment to the
public good and without substantially impairing the general purpose and intent
of the Comprehensive Plan as established by the regulations and provisions
contained in this Title.
   C.   Special Exceptions: When, in its judgment, the public convenience and
welfare will not be substantially or permanently injured, the Board of
Adjustment may in a specific case, after public notice and hearing and subject
to appropriate conditions and safeguards, authorize special exceptions to the
regulations herein established as follows:
      1.   Permit the extension of a building or use into a more restricted
district, immediately adjacent thereto, but not more than fifty feet (50')
beyond the boundary line of the district in which such building or use is
authorized.
      2.   Grant a permit for the extension of a use, height or area regulation
into an adjoining district, where the boundary line of the district divided a
lot in a single ownership at the effective date hereof.
      3.   Permit as an accessory use a parking area for passenger automobiles
on a lot or lots in a single-family, duplex or apartment house district
adjoining or across a street of not more than sixty feet (60') in width from an
R-1 to R-2 District, subject, however, to the following provisions:
         a.   The area shall be properly enclosed with a hedge screen, fence,
wall or other suitable enclosure having a height of not less than three feet
(3') nor more than six feet (6'). Such fence or enclosure shall conform to the
front yard regulations of the district in which it is located.
         b.   The area shall be improved with gravel, caliche or blacktop.
         c.   No parking of vehicles shall be permitted within six feet (6') of
any adjoining lot on which is located a single-family residence, duplex or
multiple dwelling.
         d.   One sign, not exceeding two and one-half (21/2) square feet in
area may be erected identifying the lot.
         e.   No charges may be made for parking, and no other business use may
be made of the lot.
         f.   Any light used to illuminate said parking shall be so arranged as
to direct the light away from any adjoining premises used for residential
purposes.
   D.   Commencement: Any appeal or permit granted by the Board of Adjustment
shall not be valid if construction authorized by said permit is not begun
within a period of sixty (60) days.
   E.   Modifications:
      1.   In exercising the above mentioned powers, such Board may, in
conformity with the provisions of this Title, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as ought
to be made and to that end shall have all the power of the officer from whom
the appeal is taken.
      2.   In considering all appeals and all proposed variations of this Title
the Board shall, before making any finding, in a specific case, first determine
that the proposed variation will not constitute any change in the District Map
and will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property or
materially increase the congestion in public streets or increase the public
danger of fire and safety or materially diminish or impair established property
values within the surrounding area or in any other respect impair the public
health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare of the City. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-
1995)
10-14-5: APPLICATION FOR VARIANCE:
Variance requests to the Board of Adjustment may be applied for by any person
aggrieved by any decision of the City Inspector or other Planning official.
Such appeal shall be presented to the said Board within a reasonable time, with
a brief written summary specifying the grounds perceived why variance should be
awarded, and by paying a filing fee of two-hundred and fifty dollars ($250.00)
to the City of Alamo. An application for variance, properly and completely
filed, will normally stay or suspend all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the City of Alamo attests, in writing, that a stay
or abeyance would cause imminent peril to life and/or property. In such cases,
regulatory protocol and proceedings shall not be stayed or abeyed. (Ord. 95-04-
04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 123-9-24, 9-3-2024)
CHAPTER 15
ZONING ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-15-1: Zoning Changes, Amendments And Fees
10-15-2: Violation And Penalties
10-15-3: Zoning Verification/Questionnaire Service Fees
10-15-1: ZONING CHANGES, AMENDMENTS AND FEES:
   A.   Amendments: The Board of Commissioners may, from time to time, amend,
supplement or change by ordinance the boundaries of the district or the
regulations herein established.
      1.   Administrative cost to process a change of zoning:
         $400 up to 5 acres
         $500 if property/tract is over 5 acres
         $250 - fee paid by owner/agent when they request the item be ‘Tabled’
and, if honored, then the fee of $250 will be paid first prior to the City re-
activating the rezoning public hearing process again.
   B.   Planning And Zoning Commission Review:
      1.   Before taking action on any proposed amendment, supplement or
change, the City Commission shall submit same to the City Planning and Zoning
Commission for its recommendation report. The act of the City’s submission to
the City Planning and Zoning Commission may be through the Director of
Planning, the City Secretary or the City Manager, receiving an application for
a change and submitting the same to the City Planning and Zoning Commission on
behalf of the City Commission. The City Commission may initiate a change by
requesting the same be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission without
the filing of an application of an individual property owner.
      2.   Prior to the City Planning and Zoning Commission making any
recommendation relating to any supplement or change, it will conduct a hearing
required under section 211.007 of the Texas Local Government Code, subject to
any amendment thereto, which such public hearing notice presently requires
written notice of such meeting on the proposed change to each owner within two
hundred feet (200') of the property on which the change of classification is
proposed. Such notice will be delivered before the tenth day before the hearing
date. The only other notice shall be as required by the Open Meetings Act.
   C.   Public Hearing: Upon receiving the recommendation from the Planning and
Zoning Commission, a public hearing shall be held by the City Commission before
adopting any proposed supplement, amendment or change. Notice of such hearing
shall be given as required by section 211.006 of the Texas Local Government
Code subject to any amendments thereto. Such notice presently requires that
before the fifteenth day before the date of the hearing notice of time and
place of the hearing shall be published in the official newspaper of the City.
The only other requirement of notice shall be as required by the Open Meetings
Act.
   D.   Protests And Approval: Unless such proposed amendment, supplement or
change has been approved by the City Planning and Zoning Commission or if a
protest against such amendment, supplement or change has been filed with the
City Inspector, duly signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent
(20%) or more, either of the area of the lots included in such proposed change
or those immediately adjacent in the rear thereof extending two hundred feet
(200') therefrom or of those directly opposite thereto extending two hundred
feet (200') from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such amendment,
supplement or change shall not become effective unless approved by four (4)
members of the Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995; amd. Ord. 125-
9-24, 9-3-2024)
10-15-2: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Title or fail to
comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof or who shall build or
alter any building in violation of the detailed statement or plan submitted and
approved hereunder shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable to a
fine of not more than two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), and each day such
violation shall be permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The
owner of any building or premises or part thereof where anything in violation
of this Title shall be placed or shall exist and any architect, engineer,
builder, contractor, agent, person or corporation employed in connection
therewith and who may have assisted in the commission of any such violation
shall be guilty of a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined as hereinbefore provided. (Ord. 95-04-04, 4-4-1995)
10-15-3: ZONING VERIFICATION/QUESTIONNAIRE SERVICE FEES:
The fee for Planning Staff to research, draft, prepare, and forward a brief and
signed correspondence verifying the official zoning district for a particular
property shall be $50. Should a questionnaire be requested to be completed, the
established fee will be $200. There shall be no refund in whole or in part.
(Ord. 121-9-24, 9-3-2024)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Authority
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Definitions
11-1-4: Word Construction
11-1-5: Interpretation of Provisions
11-1-6: Conformance to General Plan
11-1-7: Disclaimer of Liability
11-1-8: Compliance with Provisions
11-1-1: AUTHORITY:
   A.   This Title is adopted under the authority of the Constitution and the
laws of the State of Texas, including particularly chapter 231, Acts of the
40th Legislature, Regular Session, 1927, as heretofore or hereafter amended
(compiled as chapter 212 of the Texas Local Government Code), and the
provisions of the Municipal Annexation Act as heretofore or hereafter amended
(complied as chapters 42 and 43 of the Texas Local Government Code).
   B.   This Title is adopted pursuant to the provisions of the Charter of the
City. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-90)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Title is to provide for the orderly, safe, and healthful
development of the area within the City and within the area of extraterritorial
jurisdiction surrounding the City and to promote the health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the community. Such purpose is to be promoted by provisions
designed to:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit subdivision of lands for uses which are dangerous
to health, safety or property in times of flood or which, with reasonably
anticipated improvements, will cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities 1 .
   B.   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazards by prohibiting the subdivision of unprotected
flood hazard lands, requiring that flood hazard areas be delineated on the
final plat, and areas not suitable for development be subject to deed
restrictions.
   C.   Guide and assist and expedite the developers in correct procedure to be
followed and to inform them of the general standards which shall be required.
   D.   Protect the public interest by controlling the location, design, class
and type of streets, sidewalks, utilities and essential services required.
   E.   Provide for the public welfare, those essential areas for educational,
recreational, industrial and commercial purposes. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-90)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Title 12 of this Code for flood control regulations.
11-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Title, the following terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section.
   ALLEY: A way which extends only secondary means of access to abutting
property. A minor public right of way, not intended to provide the primary
means of access to abutting lots, which is used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or sides of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   BLOCK: A piece or parcel of land entirely surrounded by public highways,
streams, streets, railroad rights of way or parts, etc., or a combination
thereof.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE: The line within a property defining the minimum
permissible horizontal distance between a building and the adjacent street
right-of-way line.
   CITY: The city of Alamo, Texas.
   CITY ENGINEER: The person designated by the city to perform the duties of
the city engineer.
   COMMISSION: The planning and zoning commission of the city of Alamo, Texas.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OR GENERAL PLAN: The comprehensive plan is a statement of
public policy containing the goals and objectives of the community, the capital
improvements program, the land use plan, the major thoroughfare plan, the
community facilities plan, the subdivision and zoning regulations and other
development codes, ordinances, policies and plans promulgated by the board of
commissioners for the quality and orderly growth of the community.
   CROSSWALK WAY: A public right of way, six feet (6') or more in width between
property lines, which provides pedestrian circulation.
   CUL-DE-SAC: A street having but one outlet to another street, and terminated
on the opposite end by a vehicular turnaround.
   DEAD END STREET: A street, other than a cul-de-sac, with only one outlet.
   EASEMENT: A grant by the property owner to the public, a corporation or
persons of the use of a strip of land for a specific purpose.
   ENGINEER: A person duly authorized under the provisions of the Texas
engineering registration act 1 , as heretofore or hereafter amended, to
practice the profession of engineer.
   GOVERNING BODY: The board of commissioners of the city of Alamo, Texas.
   LOT: An undivided tract or parcel of land having its principal frontage on a
public street or officially approved open space, and which is, or in the future
may be, offered for sale, conveyance, transfer or improvement, which is
designated as a distinct and separate tract and which is identified by a tract
or lot number or a symbol in a duly approved subdivision plat which has been
properly filed on record.
   PAVEMENT WIDTH: The portion of a street available for vehicular traffic;
where curbs are laid, it is the portion between the face of curbs.
   PERSON: Any individual, partnership, association, firm, corporation,
governmental agency or political subdivision.
   PLANNER, LAND OR CITY: A person having an occupation classified as city or
land planning, capable of designing the proposed subdivision or use of real
estate and capable of professionally drawing the proposals into map or plan
form.
   RURAL SUBDIVISION: Any subdivision of land located within the city's
jurisdiction for subdivision approval within the distance of one mile from the
then existing city limit lines of the city of Alamo and which territory is also
located within the five (5) mile subdivision extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the city.
   SETBACK (OR BUILDING) LINE: A line on a plat parallel, or nearly so, to the
street right of way, indicating the limit beyond which buildings or structures
may not be erected.
   SHALL, MAY: The word "shall" is always mandatory. The word "may" is
directory.
   STREET: Any public thoroughfare or right of way dedicated to the public and
not designated as an alley, which provides vehicular access to adjacent land.
   A.   An "arterial street" primarily provides movement and vehicular
circulation in various sections of the city.
   B.   A "collector street" primarily provides both movement and access,
carrying traffic through or to adjacent commercial or industrial areas.
   C.   A "local street" is one which is used primarily for access to abutting
properties.
   D.   A "marginal access" street is a street which is parallel to and
adjacent to an arterial street or highway and which primarily provides access
to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
   STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected on the ground, including, but
without limitation to, buildings, factories, sheds, cabins, mobile homes and
other similar items.
   SUBDIVIDER: Any person or any agent thereof, dividing or proposing to divide
land so as to constitute a "subdivision" as that term is defined herein. In any
event, the term "subdivider" shall be restricted to include only the owner,
equitable owner or authorized agent of such owner or equitable owner, of land
sought to be subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION: A division of a lot, tract or parcel of land situated within
the corporate limits, or within the city's statutory extraterritorial
jurisdiction, into two (2) or more parts, lots or sites for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of sale, division of ownership or building
development. Subdivision includes resubdivision of land or lots which are part
of a previously recorded subdivision but it does not include the division of
land for agricultural purposes in parcels or tracts of five (5) acres or more
and not involving any new street, alley or easement of access.
   SURVEYOR: A licensed state land surveyor or a registered professional land
surveyor as authorized by the state statutes to practice the profession of
surveying.
   URBAN SUBDIVISION: A subdivision of land occurring within the boundaries of
the city limits or the extraterritorial jurisdiction lying within the area not
otherwise defined as covering a rural subdivision. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990; amd.
Ord. 3-21-00-02, 3-21-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. Vernon's Ann. Civ. St. art. 3271a.
11-1-4: WORD CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Any officer referred to in this title by title means the person
employed or appointed by the city in that position or his duly authorized
representative(s).
   B.   Definitions expressly prescribed herein are to be constructed in
accordance with the zoning ordinance 1  or other applicable ordinance of the
city, or in the absence of such ordinance, then in accordance with customary
usage in municipal planning and engineering practices. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
11-1-5: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in favor of the governing
body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other powers granted
by state statutes. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
11-1-6: CONFORMANCE TO GENERAL PLAN:
   A.   No plat or subdivision of land constituting an urban subdivision within
the city or its extraterritorial jurisdiction, as defined under the provisions
of Vernon's Texas Code Annotated, Local Government Code, section 212.001 et
seq., shall be approved unless the plat conforms to the general plan of the
city and its roads, streets, alleys, easements, drainage, and public utility
facilities, including those which have been or may be laid out or required to
be laid out as necessitated by the subdivision, and to the general plan for the
extension of the city and of its roads, streets, alleys, easements, drainage,
and public utilities, including access to drainage and public utilities
relating thereto.
   B.   No plat or subdivision of land within the extraterritorial jurisdiction
of the city constituting a rural subdivision shall be approved unless the plat
conforms to the general plan or requirements for subdivisions of land as
promulgated by the commissioners court of the county. In addition thereto,
provisions shall be made for the supply of potable water to each lot within
such subdivision. Such potable water supply source shall be approved by the
state department of health for the supplying of potable water to consumers. The
planning and zoning commission is hereby authorized to approve any such plats
on behalf of the city and shall, therefore, submit such plats to the county
commissioners court for its approval. (Ord. 3-21-00-02, 3-21-2000)
11-1-7: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this title is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on previous flood records. Larger floods
may occur on rare occasions or flood heights may be increased by manmade or
natural causes, such as bridge openings restricted or debris. This title does
not imply that areas outside flood hazard areas or land uses permitted within
such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This title shall not
create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this title or any administrative
decision lawfully made thereunder. In no case shall responsibility or liability
arise from the design or operation of subdivision drainage facilities dedicated
to the city if the city has not accepted, in writing, the dedication and agreed
to maintain and operate the facilities. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
11-1-8: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No land shall hereafter be subdivided or used without full compliance with the
terms of this title and other applicable regulations including zoning, official
maps, health codes and other regulations which apply to uses within the
jurisdiction of this title. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
CHAPTER 2
SUBDIVISION PLATS AND PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-2-1: General Requirements
11-2-2: Plat Approvals
11-2-3: Preliminary Conference
11-2-4: Preliminary Plat
11-2-5: Final Plat
11-2-5-1: Single Lot Variance; Approval And Procedures
11-2-6: Performance Guarantee
11-2-7: Responsibility For Costs
11-2-8: Larger Tracts
11-2-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Septic Tanks: No permits for installation or approval of designs shall
be issued by the City for the installation of septic tanks on lots less than
one-half (1/2) acre upon any lot in a subdivision. All septic tank systems
meeting requirements applicable to State law applied to local conditions will
be allowed on lots one-half (1/2) acre or more upon any lot in a subdivision.
(Ord. 4-20-99, 4-20-1999)
   B.   Compliance With Standards: No building, repair, plumbing or electrical
permit shall be issued by the City for any structure on a lot in a subdivision
for which a final plat has not been approved and filed for record, nor for any
structure on a lot within a subdivision in which the standards contained herein
have not been complied with in full.
   C.   Final Plat Approval Required:
      1.   The City shall not repair, maintain, install or provide any streets
or public utility services in any subdivision for which a final plat has not
been approved and filed for record nor in which the standards contained herein
or referred to herein have not been complied with in full.
      2.   The City shall not sell or supply any electricity, water or sewerage
service within a subdivision for which a final plat has not been approved or
filed for record, nor in which the standards contained herein or referred to
herein have not been complied with in full.
   D.   Enforcement By City Attorney: In behalf of the City, the City Attorney
shall, when directed by the Governing Body, institute appropriate action in a
court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of this title or the
standards referred to herein with respect to any violation thereof which occurs
within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City as such jurisdiction is
determined under the Municipal Annexation Act 1  or within any area subject to
all or a part of the provisions of this title.
   E.   Nonconformance; Resolution: If any subdivision exists for which a final
plat has not been approved or in which the standards contained herein or
referred to herein have not been complied with in full, and the Governing Body
of the City shall pass a resolution reciting the fact of such noncompliance or
failure to secure final plat approval and reciting the fact that the provisions
of subsections A through C of this section will apply to the subdivision and
the lots therein, the City Secretary shall, when directed by the Governing
Body, cause a certified copy of such resolution under the Corporate Seal of the
City to be filed in the deed of records of the County in which such subdivision
or part thereof lies. If full compliance and final plat approval are secured
after the filing of such resolution, the City Secretary shall forthwith file an
instrument in the deed records of the County stating that subsections A through
C of this section no longer apply. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
   F.   Exceptions: Provided, however, that the provisions of this section
shall not be construed to prohibit the issuance of building, repair, plumbing
or electrical permits with respect to any lots or building tract, nor prohibit
the repair, maintenance, or installation of any street or public utility
services for, to, or abutting any lot, in these instances, where the last
recorded conveyance of such lot or tract prior to January 21, 1980, was by
metes and bounds or where a building is in existence on said lot prior to the
effective date hereof or where such subdivision, whether by recorded plat or by
actual occupancy and use, was in existence prior to the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
   G.   Land Suitability:
      1.   No land shall be subdivided which is held unsuitable for its
intended use by the City Engineer for reason of flooding, inadequate drainage,
soil and rock formations with severe limitations for development,
susceptibility to mud slides or earth slides, severe erosion potential,
unfavorable topography, inadequate water supply or sewage disposal capabilities
or any other feature harmful to the health, safety or welfare of the future
residents of the proposed subdivision or community.
      2.   However, the Governing Body may approve the preliminary and final
plats if the subdivider improves the land consistent with the standards of this
title and other applicable ordinances to make the area, in the opinion of the
Governing Body, suitable for its intended use. The Governing Body may also
approve the preliminary and final plats if the subdivider agrees to make
suitable improvements and places a sum in escrow pursuant to section
11-2-6 of this chapter to guarantee performance.
      3.   In determining the appropriateness of land subdivision at the site,
the Governing Body shall consider the objectives of this title, and:
         a.   The danger to life and property due to the increased flood
heights or velocities caused by subdivision fill, roads and intended uses 2 .
         b.   The danger that intended uses may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
         c.   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions
under flood conditions.
         d.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         e.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community.
         f.   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed subdivision and land uses.
         g.   The compatibility of the proposed uses with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
         h.   The relationship of the proposed subdivision to the Comprehensive
Plan and Flood Management Program for the area.
         i.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
emergency vehicles.
         j.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-
1990)
 
Notes
1 1. VTCA, LGC § 43.001 et seq.
2 1. See also title 12 of this Code.
11-2-2: PLAT APPROVALS:
   A.   Approval Required: All plans, plats or replats of land laid out in
building lots, and the streets, alleys or other portions of the same intended
to be dedicated for public use or for the use of purchasers or owners of the
lots fronting thereon or adjacent thereto and plans and descriptions of all
streets, alleys or public ways intended to be deeded or dedicated for public
use or for the use of purchasers or owners of the land fronting thereon or
adjacent thereto, which is not intended to be platted into lots or other
designated tracts or any addition or plan of streets or public ways, located
outside the City limits, within the County and entirely or in part within the
statutory extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City shall be submitted to the
Planning and Zoning Commission for their consideration with relation to the
Comprehensive Plan, and said commission shall submit their recommendation to
the Governing Body for their official consideration and action, and no such
plat or replat or dedication or deed of street or public way shall be filed
with the County Clerk, as provided by law, until such plat or replat or
dedication or deed shall have endorsed on it the fact that it has first been
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission and to the Governing Body and
by the Governing Body been duly approved.
   B.   Preliminary Plat: A preliminary plat of any proposed subdivision shall
be submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission and Governing Body for
approval before the subdivider proceeds with the preparation of the final plat
for record.
   C.   Inspections: All construction work, such as street paving, storm
sewers, curb and/or gutter work, sanitary sewers, water mains and electrical
construction performed by the owner, developer or contractor, shall be subject
to inspection during construction by the proper authority of the City and shall
be construed in accordance with applicable provisions of this title. (Ord. 90-
02, 6-5-1990)
11-2-3: PRELIMINARY CONFERENCE:
Prior to the official filing of a preliminary plat, the subdivider, his planner
or representative, should consult with and present a proposed plan of
subdivision to the City staff for comments and advice on the procedures,
specifications and standards required by the City for the subdivision of land.
(Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
11-2-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.   Plat Preparation: The subdivider shall cause to be prepared a
preliminary plat by a surveyor or engineer in accordance with this title (plat
may be prepared in conjunction with a land planner).
   B.   Filing Of Plat: The subdivider shall file five (5) copies of the
subdivision plat with the City Secretary twenty one (21) working days prior to
the date of the next regularly scheduled Planning and Zoning Commission
meeting. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990; amd. 1994 Code)
   C.   Filing Fees: No action by the Governing Body shall be valid until the
filing fee has been paid. This fee shall not be refunded should the subdivider
fail to make formal application for preliminary plat approval or should the
plat be finally disapproved by the Governing Body.
      1.   A processing fee of $400.00 for subdivision plats of 5 acres or
less; and $400.00 + $25/acre for plats over 5 acres shall be paid to the City
of Alamo at the time the plat is submitted for review processing. For Re-
subdivision plats that require to activate the public hearing process (Sect.
212.015 Local Govt. Code), the filing fee shall be $400.00; however, the Re-
subdivision filing fee will be $450.00 where it is discerned that over 50
public hearing notices will need to be prepared/mailed. If the Re-subdivision
hearing protocol has been activated and the developer or his/her authorized
agent request that it be ‘Tabled’ and said request is sustained by the
reviewing commission, then a fee of $200.00 shall be paid prior to re-
activating the public hearing process again.
      2.   A two percent (2%) construction fee is to be paid by the plat owner
after the fee is determined by the City Engineer.
      3.   A recording and a filing fee are to be determined at the time the
plat is submitted to the County by the City for approval.
      4.   A three percent (3%) lab escrow for geotechnical and construction
testing purposes shall be submitted prior to obtaining a notice to proceed for
the construction of a subdivision, unless there is no testing required by the
City. The lab escrow will be used by the City to hire an independent
geotechnical and construction testing engineer in order to conduct proper
testing of materials and construction. Payment of any test failures, re-
testing, and overages will be the responsibility of the project contractor/
developer.
      5.   Prior to construction of the infrastructural improvements of any
plat, there shall be a pre-construction conference (PCC) where pertinent City
departments shall meet with the developer’s engineers, contractors, and/or
other representatives to consider issuing a notice to proceed (NTP) should the
sealed construction plans fully comply with the city’s requirements for
imminent public infrastructure. There shall be a PCC fee for these review/
examination services. No NTP shall be issued until said fee is paid, which
shall be based as follows:
 
Minimum $100 for developments up to fifty (50) lots
51 - 100 lots will equate to one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00)
101 or more lots will equate to two hundred twenty-five dollars ($225.00)
 
   D.   Additional Items:
      1.   An application providing general information regarding the plat and
plat owner must be filed with the City Secretary.
      2.   Two (2) construction documents (sealed).
      3.   Additional plats shall be provided at the time the plat is submitted
to the County by the City Secretary for approval. The number of plats needed
will be determined at that time.
   E.   Form And Content Of Plat:
      1.   All five (5) plats submitted by the subdivider shall be drawn on
tracing paper to a scale no greater than one hundred feet to one inch (100' =
1"). All plats must be signed and sealed by engineering firm and developer or
they will not be reviewed by the City Engineer. When more than one (1) sheet is
necessary to accommodate the entire area, an index sheet showing the entire
subdivision at an appropriate scale shall be attached to the plat. Plats shall
show the following:
         a.   Name(s) and address(es) of the subdivider(s), record of owner(s)
of land to be subdivided, engineer and/or surveyor preparing the map and name
and address of the designer of the plat.
         b.   Proposed name of the subdivision shall not have the same spelling
as or be pronounced similar to the name of any other subdivision currently
located within the City or within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
City. Furthermore, the name of the subdivision plat will be subject to approval
by the Board of Commissioners where special emphasis will be placed on what may
be appealing and appropriate; and where a proposed plats’ name will not be
controversial, give rise to negative connotations, or linked to an un-desired
stigma as perceived by said Board of Commissioners.
         c.   Description, by metes and bounds, of the subdivision boundaries.
         d.   Primary control point locations shall be shown. Descriptions and
ties to such control points from which all dimensions, angles, bearings, block
numbers and similar data are referred shall be shown. Such control point
designations shall meet all requirements of the appropriate State Statutes.
         e.   Subdivision boundary line should be indicated by heavy lines and
the acreage of the subdivision shown.
         f.   Engineering conditions as follows:
            (1)   The exact location, dimensions, name and description of all
existing or recorded streets, alleys, reservations, easements or other public
rights-of-way within the subdivision, intersecting or contiguous with its
boundaries or forming such boundaries.
            (2)   The exact location, dimensions, description and flow line of
existing watercourses and drainage structures within the subdivision or on
contiguous tracts.
            (3)   Zoning district classification if there is more than one
classification, the dividing lines should be shown on land to be subdivided and
on adjoining lands.
            (4)   Flood and hazard areas.
         g.   The exact location, dimensions, description and name of all
proposed streets, street grades and cross section alleys, drainage structures,
parks, other public areas, reservations, easements or other rights of way,
blocks, lots or other sites within the subdivision.
         h.   Date of preparation, actual and graphic scale of plat and north
arrow.
         i.   Draft of proposed restrictive covenants (if any) to be imposed
and areas subject to special restrictions.
         j.   Building setback lines on fronts of all lots and sites. Side yard
building setback lines at street intersections and crosswalk ways.
      2.   At the request of the City staff, Planning and Zoning Commission or
Board of Commissioners, the subdivider may be required to provide the following
information on the preliminary plat:
         a.   Topographic information shall include contour lines on a basis of
five (5) vertical feet in terrain with a slope of two percent (2%) or more and
on a basis of one vertical foot in terrain with a slope of less than two
percent (2%).
         b.   Preliminary plan of any required on-site waste disposal systems
including disposal sites for land subject to flooding or sanitary sewers with
grade, pipe size and points of discharge.
         c.   Proposed fill or other structure elevating techniques, levees,
channel modifications and other methods to overcome flood or erosion-related
hazards.
         d.   Designation of all land to be reserved or dedicated for open
space or recreational use.
         e.   Vicinity sketch or map, at some appropriate scale, which shall
show existing subdivisions, streets, easements, rights of way, parks and public
facilities of water and possible storm sewer, water, gas, electric and sanitary
sewer connections by owner.
         f.   Soil information which shall show characteristics for soil
bearing, shrink/swell, permeability and percolation.
   F.   Processing of Preliminary Plat:
      1.   The City staff, as specified hereafter, shall check the preliminary
plat as to its conformity with the adopted General Plan, major street plan,
land use plan, zoning districts and the standards and specifications set forth
herein or referred to herein or to other pertinent policies and standards of
the City.
      2.   Pertinent copies of the preliminary plat data shall be submitted to
the City Engineer and he shall check the same for conformity with the standards
and specifications contained or referred to herein. The City Engineer, City
Manager, Planning Director, Commission or governing body may require the
applicant to submit additional topographic information, detailed plans for
proposed uses and other information to determine possible flood or erosion
hazards, the effect of the subdivision uses upon flood flows and the adequacy
of proposed flood protection measures. The City Engineer, City Manager,
Planning Director, Commission or governing body may consult with expert persons
or agencies for technical assistance and advice.
      3.   All proposed preliminary plats and subdivisions of land within the
City and its extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be submitted by the developer
to the governing body for referral, review and comment by the various
governmental departments and the independent school district and utility
service companies.
      4.   The City Engineer and/or Planning Director and City staff shall
return the preliminary plat and accompanying data to the Planning and Zoning
Commission and governing body with their recommendations as to modifications,
additions or alterations of such plat data.
      5.   In addition, as a minimum, the following checks of the preliminary
plat shall be made by:
         a.   The Engineering Department or Consulting Engineering Firm and the
Public Works Department; and the Fire Marshal’s Office
            (1)   Drainage policies complied with; review HCDD#1 approved
drainage report; inlet-to-inlet spacing complied with; size of storm lines are
appropriate; detention pond’s paved access to maintain; buffer fencing on
perimeter of detention pond assessed; seed or hydro-mulch pond to impede
erosion is noted; drainage easements or ROW appropriately dedicated; storm
lines between lot lines to be min. 5' from actual lot lines to avoid storm line
being inadvertently broken if fencing improvements are done by owners; etc.
            (2)   Street Layout and proposed street grades; valley-gutter
policies abided by; perimeter street widening meets MPO requirements; drainage
is factored- in to the wider paved street; etc.
            (3)   Type of paving; pavement cross-sections meets code for the
proper classification of street; calculated street widening costs are signed/
sealed by the project engineer; markings, reflectors, and chevrons on widened
perimeter street meets traffic safety codes; etc.
            (4)   Boundary lines; one foot (!’) contour lines shown are
legible; all lines on the plat are identified as to their purpose; etc.
            (5)   Monuments and bench marks are properly identified and/or plat
noted as to their origin; etc.
            (6)   Location and size of alleys; pavement section for alley is
compliant; alley pavement cross-section is provided and meets Code; intersected
alleys provide for the 10' x 10' ROW clip being dedicated; no dead-end alleys.
            (7)   Availability of adequate water and sewer mains to the
subdivision; if utility lines are ‘not in ROW, then properly sized easements to
be dedicated; is there a reimbursement agreement to be complied with if tying
to a line installed by another developer (or the City); water line to be
stubbed to adjoiners; sanitary sewer to be stubbed to adjoiners; etc.
            (8)   Water system layout and fire hydrant locations; water system
to be looped (connected to 2 independent water sources (ideally); in
commercial/multi- family settings, min. 8" water lines are mandated; check if
an undersized water line needs to be replaced/upgraded; hydrant type to be
compliant to city code (Mueller, etc.); hydrant-to-hydrant intervals for type
of land use meets code; blue buttons to be installed after hydrants are
installed; painted ‘Fire Lane’ ‘Do Not Park’ on curb is noted to be complied
with (size of letters to be dictated by the Fire Marshal); etc.
            (9)   Sanitary sewer easements are appropriately sized and shown on
the plat. Did project engineer provide the State of Texas TCEQ correspondence
that the proposed water and/or sanitary sewer utility plan(s) met State
regulations.
         b.   The Planning Department. (Note: list below is not all-inclusive &
may be adjusted as policies are adopted and amended.)
            (1)   Plat’s name is appropriate and does not duplicate another;
plat name is not offensive or stirs contention (see Sec.
11-2-4  (E)(1)(b)).
            (2)   Acreage is properly zoned for intended use; lots meet the
min, zoning area requirements.
            (3)   Acreage may be required to be voluntarily annexed if using
city utility.
            (4)   Verify owner’s dedicatory signature box reflecting public or
private dedications.
            (5)   Lot numbers are sequential; no lot # missing; detention pond
is identified; lift station ‘Lot’ is identified and dedicated to the sewer CCN
provider.
            (6)   Curve data is shown; lot sizes are shown to meet min, code
            (7)   North arrow shown; proper scale shown; date of preparation;
confirm that the scale and north arrow are correct in the utility/street/storm
sheets.
            (8)   Flood zone plat note matches the zone called-out in the
drainage report’s FIRM.
            (9)   The owner(s) on the dedicatory box match the current warranty
deed; also, confirm that the ‘owner’ on the contact box matches the actual
developer signing the plat.
            (10)   confirm that the Mayor’s name, if shown, is current/updated.
            (11)   If deemed appropriate, include plat note: “Site Plan
Approval by the Planning & Zoning Commission and the Board of Directors is
required on Lot whereby, among other layers of improvements, the City will
assess the structures’ building setbacks, paved off-street parking, the site’s
access points, fire lanes, additional hydrants, sidewalk improvements,
landscaping location and type/irrigation system type, fence (location/type) of
visual buffering, security buffering fence to major streets/detention laterals/
canals or similar matters of concern, security lighting, placement of the
buffered garbage dumpster, possible private speed bumps to maximize traffic
safety, plus other reasonable measures.” The Site Plan Approval fee will be
$250; should the applicant amend the site plan to the degree that it is deemed
substantially different than the originally filed site plan, then payment of
the Site Plan Approval fee shall again be required due to Staff needing to re-
visit it anew.
            (12)   If commercially zoned lot, a plat note may be included
citing: Should this property be used for any residential purpose, the City of
Alamo shall, prior to issuing a building permit, impose the prevailing park
dedication fee pursuant to the number of residential units.
            (13)   Plat Notes on MFE, sidewalk width and placement, cubic feet
detention per lot, perpetual private maintenance to private detention ponds/
laterals, specific access to lots from specific street, etc.
            (14)   Street Names are in alignment to existing others; if not,
must be; amended,
            (15)   confirm if wider than normal utility easements do not
deplete the buildable area from being viable.
            (16)   other reasonable (construction) requirements that may be
customized for the development’s unique circumstances
      6.   Twenty one (21) working days after the filing of formal written
application for preliminary plat, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
either a) conditionally approve or disapprove the preliminary plat, or b)
conditionally approve the preliminary plat with modifications.
      7.   Following the preliminary plat review meeting with the developer,
City Manager, City Engineer and all concerned department heads, the developer
may file a formal written application for preliminary plat approval with the
City Secretary as agent for the Board of Commissioners.
      8.   Conditional approval of a preliminary plat by the Board of
Commissioners shall be deemed an expression of approval of the layout submitted
on the preliminary plat as a guide to the installation of streets, water, sewer
and other required improvements and utilities and to the preparation of the
final or recorded plat. It is during this preliminary stage that if a proposed
ETJ plat reflects an intent to interconnect their private development to the
City’s corporate infrastructure, then the City’s shareholders (taxpayers) have
determined through their duly elected Board of Commissioners that mandating a
voluntary annexation request is a reasonable, logical, and just measure to have
the incoming users cost- participate in the infrastructure’s further investment
to be maintained, improved, and expanded. Staff will alert the developer and/or
the project representative of the mandate to provide a written voluntary
request.
      9.   Conditional approval of a preliminary plat shall be effective for no
more than six (6) months until the final plat is filed for approval and unless
reviewed by the governing body in the light of new or significant information
which would necessitate a revision of the preliminary plat. If the governing
body should deem changes in a preliminary plat as necessary, it shall so inform
the subdivider in writing.
      10.   If no circumstances have occurred which would affect the proposed
plat within six (6) months of the effective approval of the preliminary plat,
the governing body may, upon the application of the subdivider, extend the
approval for an additional six (6) months. At the end of this six (6) month
extension, the preliminary approval is revoked, in writing, by the City to the
subdivider.
      11.   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall certify:
         a.   That it has reviewed the preliminary plat; and
         b.   As to its recommendation to the Board of Commissioners for
conditional approval, disapproval or conditional approval with modification.
      12.   The Board of Commissioners shall certify the preliminary plat
stating its decision to conditionally approve, disapprove or conditionally
approve with modifications.
   G.   City Secretary's Responsibility: The City Secretary shall:
      1.   Receive the subdivision plats submitted along with the processing
fee and ensure that a subdivision application is completed.
      2.   Provide the developer with a copy of the City's subdivision
ordinance.
      3.   Make sure that the subdivision plat is submitted twenty one (21)
working days prior to being placed on the Planning and Zoning Commission agenda
for consideration.
      4.   Advise developer that lots may not be sold until final plat approval
has been granted.
   H.   General Approval Process To Be Followed:
      1.   Time log/check list is prepared by City Secretary twenty one (21)
working days prior to the plat being placed on the Planning and Zoning
Commission agenda for the first time.
      2.   Copies of subdivision plat and construction documents are to be
provided to the Public Works Director, Fire Marshal, Police Chief and City
Inspector (when applicable) for comments. This is to be done within two (2)
working days of having received the plat for review.
      3.   Reviewed plats are to be returned to the City Secretary by each
department head with comments within two (2) working days of having been
received.
      4.   The City Secretary provides subdivision plat, construction documents
and comments received from department heads to City Engineer for review within
two (2) working days of having been submitted by the department heads.
      5.   After first review of plat, City Engineer provides City Secretary
with plat status report within six (6) working days after having received the
plat.
      6.   City Secretary provides plat status report to developer or his
engineer for compliance, within two (2) working days, after having received the
report from the City Engineer.
      7.   Revised plats must be resubmitted by developer to City Secretary
within six (6) working days after having received status report.
      8.   City Secretary provides revised subdivision plat to City Engineer
for second review within two (2) working days after revised plat is submitted.
      9.   City Engineer presents second plat status report to City Secretary
within four (4) working days after receiving revised plat, and
         a.   If second status report indicates that plat is in compliance with
the subdivision ordinance, the subdivision plat is presented to the Planning
and Zoning Commission for consideration; or
         b.   If second status report indicates that plat is incomplete:
            (1)   Plat is returned to the developer or his engineer for further
review until ready to be presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission for
consideration, or
            (2)   Plat is presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission as an
incomplete plat if so requested by the developer.
      10.   After a plat is considered by the Planning and Zoning Commission,
said plat is presented to the Board of Commissioners for consideration along
with a recommendation from the Planning and Zoning Commission to approve as
presented, to approve with conditions, to disapprove for noncompliance, or
other. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017; Ord.
09-02-21, - -2021; Ord. 19-04-21, - -2021; Ord. 27-04-23, 4-18-2023; Ord. 124-
9-2024, 9-3-2024; Ord. 134-10-24, 10-1-2024; Ord. 135-10-24, 10-1-2024)
11-2-5: FINAL PLAT:
   A.   General Information:
      1.   Required: Prior to placing a plat on the agenda to be considered by
the Board of Commissioners, the developer must provide the following:
         a.   Water rights signature.
         b.   Letter of credit (as deemed applicable).
         c.   Letter from entity providing water (if a rural water supplier).
         d.   Voluntary annexation request (as deemed applicable).
      2.   Notice Of Acceptance: Prior to placing of plat on agenda to be
considered by the Board of Commissioners, the City Engineer prepares notice of
acceptance of plat construction; provided, that the required form and content
of the final plat has been complied with.
      3.   Inspection Fee: Prior to plat being presented to the Board of
Commissioners for approval, the City Engineer is to determine the two percent
(2%) inspection fee to be paid by the developer.
      4.   Delegation Of Approval Responsibility For Certain Plats: The Board
of Commissioners hereby delegates the ability to approve certain plats, as
allowed by the Local Government Code, chapter 212, section 212.0065, to the
City Manager of the City of Alamo. The types of plats authorized to be approved
by the City Manager are listed below:
         a.   Amending plats as described in section 212.016 of the Local
Government Code; and
         b.   Minor plats or re-plats involving four (4) or fewer lots fronting
on an existing street and not requiring the creation of any new street or the
extension of Municipal facilities or a re- plat that does not require the
creation of any new street or the extension of Municipal facilities.
The City Manager may, for any reason, elect to present the plat for approval to
the Board of Commissioners for their consideration; and shall be required to
refer any plat which he refuses to approve to the Board of Commissioners within
the time period allotted by Code for their final determination.
   B.   Form And Content:
      1.   The final plat and accompanying data shall conform substantially to
the preliminary plat as conditionally approved or conditionally approved with
modifications by the Governing Body incorporating any and all changes,
modifications, alterations, corrections and conditions recommended by the
Governing Body.
      2.   The final plat shall be drawn at a scale of one hundred feet to one
inch (100' = 1"). Where more than one (1) sheet is necessary to accommodate the
entire area, an index sheet showing the entire subdivision at an appropriate
scale shall be attached to the plat.
      3.   The final plat shall be submitted in original form, with blueprints
and utility layout and six (6) copies and shall contain all of the features
required for preliminary plat in section
11-2-4 of this chapter and it shall be accompanied by site improvement data
bearing the seal of an engineer or a registered public surveyor.
      4.   In addition to the various requirements for the preliminary plat,
the final plat shall also include the following:
         a.   The exact location, dimensions, name and description of all
existing or recorded streets, alleys, reservations, easements or other public
rights-of-way, blocks, lots and other sites within the subdivision with
accurate dimensions, bearing of deflection angles and radii, area and central
angles, degree of curvature, tangent distance and length of all curves, where
appropriate.
         b.   The exact location, dimensions, description and name of all
proposed streets, alleys, drainage structures, parks, other public areas,
reservations, easements or other rights-of-way, blocks, lots and other sites
within the subdivision with accurate dimensions, bearing or deflection angles
and radii, area and central angles, degree of curvature, tangent distance and
length of all curves, where appropriate.
         c.   Regulatory flood elevations, boundaries of flood-prone area,
building sites (including waste disposal areas for flood-prone lands), fills,
flood or erosion protective works and areas subject to special restrictions.
(Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990; amd. 1994 Code)
      5.   The final plat shall also include the following:
         a.   Owner's acknowledgement: (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
            (1)   State of Texas
               County of Hidalgo
               The Owner of the Land shown on this plat and whose name is
subscribed hereto and in person or through a duly authorized agent dedicates to
the use of the public forever all streets, alleys, parks, watercourses, drains,
easements and public places thereon shown for the purpose and consideration
therein expressed.
                                                
               (owner)
(Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990; amd. 1994 Code)
            (2)    State of Texas
               County of             
               Before me, the undersigned authority, on this day personally
appeared                            . Known to me to be the person whose name
is subscribed to the foregoing instrument and acknowledged to me that he
executed the same for purposes and considerations therein stated.
               Given under my hand and seal of office this          day of
                        20     .
                                              
               Notary Public
                                              County, Texas
(Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
         b.   Certification by Board of Commissioners:
            I, the undersigned, Mayor of the City of Alamo, hereby certify that
this subdivision plat conforms to all requirements of the Subdivision
Regulations (Title 11 of the Municipal Code) of the City wherein my approval is
required.
                                                            
             Date   Mayor
         c.   Certification of surveyor responsible for surveying the
subdivision area, attesting to its accuracy:
            State of Texas,
            County of                       
         I, the undersigned, a (registered professional engineer/public
surveyor) in the State of Texas, hereby certify that this plat is true and
correct and was prepared from an actual survey on the property made under my
supervision on the ground.
         (Engineer or Surveyor Seal)
                                                        
          Date   Registered Professional
         Engineer, or Registered
         Public Surveyor
         d.   Certification by the engineer responsible for the preparation of
the final plat and supporting data, attesting to its accuracy:
            State of Texas
            County of                    
            I, the undersigned, a registered professional engineer (or, a
registered public surveyor) in the State of Texas; hereby certify that proper
engineering consideration has been given this plat.
            (Engineer or Surveyor seal)
                                             
            Registered Professional Engineer
(Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990; amd. 1994 Code)
         e.   Certification by the engineer responsible for the preparation of
the final plat and supporting data, attesting to its accuracy, shall be
necessary on all subdivision plats submitted for review and approval by the
City Commission. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
   C.   Processing Final Plat:
      1.   If desired by the subdivider and approved by the Governing Body, the
final plat may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat
which he proposes to record and develop. However, such portion shall conform to
all the requirements of this title.
      2.   Plat approval shall be for a period of one (1) year from the date
final plat approval is granted by the Board of Commissioners; or for minor
plats, this will be the date of (conditional) approval by the delegated city
staff member. A request for extending the plats’ approval may be filed in
writing to the city’s Director of Community Planning and Development (CPD) for
a period not to exceed one (1) additional year. The plat approval extension
filing fee shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00) if filed before the
expiration date. If the plats’ approved tenure expired and then an extension is
filed, the filing fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00). Plat extensions
shall be reviewed, discussed, and acted on by the Planning and Zoning
Commission only. It is declared that discretionary authority is delegated to
the P&Z Commission to impose additional conditions of approval typically
reserved for adjusted changes to subdivision regulations. However, should the
developer or his/her authorized agent desire to appeal the conditions of an
approved extension, then they may file a written appeal addressed to the Board
of Commissioners expressing their justification for further assessment. The
written appeal process shall have a filing fee of fifty dollars ($50.00); and
shall be filed with the City of Alamo’s CPD Director. The action on such an
appeal by the Board of Commissioners shall be final.
      3.   No final plat will be considered unless a preliminary plat has been
submitted and approved. However, if an approved plat has been duly recorded and
the subdivider wishes to increase the size of the lots by combining the lots
with portion of the adjacent lots in such manner that no portion of a lot
remains smaller than the original lots, an additional preliminary plat will not
be necessary.
      4.   Within thirty (30) days after the plat is formally filed with the
City Secretary, the Governing Body shall approve or disapprove the plat.
      5.   If the final plat is disapproved, the Governing Body shall inform
the subdivider, in writing, of the reasons, at the time such action was taken.
      6.   After the final plat has been finally approved, the Governing Body
shall cause the final plat to be recorded with the County Clerk. The Governing
Body shall also cause the checks for the recording and filing fees deposited at
the time the final plat was filed for approval to be delivered with the final
plat to the County Clerk.
      7.   Approval of the final plat by the Governing Body shall not
constitute the acceptance by the public of the dedication of any roads,
drainageways, floodways, public way or other ground unless the Governing Body
specifically agrees to such acceptance. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990; amd. 1994 Code;
Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017; Ord. 19-04-21, - -2021; Ord. 154-12-24, 12-17-2024)
11-2-5-1: SINGLE LOT VARIANCE; APPROVAL AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Planning And Zoning Commission: The Board of Commissioners hereby
grants discretionary authority to the Planning and Zoning Commission to approve
single-lot variances which may be issued on a case-by-case basis after
consultation with the City Manager, City Engineer, and the Director of
Planning. No single-lot variance shall be considered except upon submittal of
an application with the applicable fee paid. Approved single-lot variances by
the Planning and Zoning Commission may be presented to the City Council, if the
applicant is not in agreement to the conditions set forth by such commission,
and presents a written appeal within thirty (30) working days to the City
Commission for review and final action.
   B.   Single-Lot Variances: Properties proposed for single-lot variances,
must meet all of the following criteria in order to be considered:
      1.   The property must be a single tract and not a series of proposed
tracts,
      2.   It must have access to a paved public street,
      3.   It must not require any new streets to be dedicated and/or improved,
      4.   It must not require the extension of Municipal utilities, and
      5.   It must be within the corporate City limits.
   C.   Planning And Zoning Commission On Discretionary Terms Of Approval: By
granting any single-lot variance, especially to those on the entire provisions
of this chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission has the planning discretion
of requiring other terms or conditions which may mitigate the effects of an
awarded single-lot variance. These conditions include but are not limited to
the requirements of chapter 3 of this title. Should the applicant not accept
such commission's terms of approval, the single lot variance shall be
considered void.
   D.   Filing Fee: Each application for single-lot variance shall be in
accordance to the City's existing subdivision application fees. No application
shall be considered until such payment is made.
   E.   Time Limitation: Once a single-lot variance is granted, if such
approval is contingent on certain conditions, then such conditions must be met
within six (6) months, if not, the approval is revoked. A six (6) month
extension may be granted by the Planning Director if requested by the
applicant. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
11-2-6: PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE:
   A.   Improvements Prior To Final Plat Recordation: If the subdivider chooses
to construct the required improvements prior to the recording of the final
plat, all such construction shall be on engineered signed/sealed plans with
stations denoting the utilities’ alignment on said plans, plus other typical
requirements expected through generally accepted engineering and construction
practices, as determined by the City’s Engineer; said improvements shall be
inspected while in progress by the City and must be approved upon completion by
the City Engineer or his duly authorized representative. A certificate by such
officer stating that the construction conforms to the specifications and
standards contained in or referred to herein must be presented to the Governing
Body prior to approval of the final plat for recordation.
   B.   Security In Lieu Of Construction: If the subdivider chooses to file
security in lieu of completing construction prior to final plat approval for
recordation, he may utilize one (1) of the following methods of posting
security. If the subdivider chooses to file security, the plat shall not be
approved for recordation unless the subdivider has done one (1) of the
following:
      1.   Performance Bond: Has filed with the City a bond executed by a
security company holding a license to do business in the State of Texas and
acceptable to the City and on the form provided by the City in an amount equal
to the cost of the improvements required by this title. The construction of the
improvements shall be within the time as estimated and approved by the City
Engineer. The performance bond shall be approved as to form and legality by the
City Attorney.
      2.   Trust Agreement: Has placed on deposit in a bank or trust company,
in the name of the City and approved by the City in a trust account, a sum of
money equal to the estimated cost of all site improvements required by this
title, the cost of completion as approved by the City Engineering Department.
Selection of the trustee shall be executed on the form provided by the City and
approved as to form and legality by the City Attorney. Periodic withdrawals may
be made from the trust account for a progressive payment of installation cost.
The amounts of such withdrawals shall be based upon progress work estimates and
approved by the City Engineering Department. All such withdrawals shall be
approved by the trustee.
      3.   Unconditional Guarantee: Has filed with the Governing Body a letter,
on the form provided by the City, signed by the principal officer of a local
bank or local federally insured savings and loan association or other financial
institutions, acceptable to the City, agreeing to pay the City, on demand, a
stipulated sum of money to apply to the estimated cost of installation of all
improvements for which the subdivider or developer is responsible under this
title. The guaranteed payment sum shall be the estimated costs and scheduling
as approved by the City Engineering Department. The letter shall state the name
of the subdivision and shall list the improvements for which the subdivider or
developer is required to provide.
   C.   Guarantee Of Materials And Workmanship: The subdivider or developer
shall require guarantee of materials and workmanship of his construction
contractors with whom he contracts for furnishing materials and installing the
improvements required under this title and shall himself be responsible for
guaranteeing that all materials and workmanship in connection with such
improvements are free of defects for a period of one (1) year after acceptance
of the improvements by the City Engineer. A written and notarized statement
shall be filed with the City Secretary to guarantee the above.
   D.   Acceptance Or Rejection Of Construction: If one (1) of the above three
(3) types of security is filed by the subdivider under subsection B of this
section, the City Engineer shall inspect the construction of the improvements
while in progress and he shall inspect such improvements upon completion of
construction. After final inspection, he shall notify the subdivider and the
City Attorney, in writing, as to his acceptance or rejection of the
construction. He shall reject such construction only if it fails to comply with
the standards and specifications contained or referred to herein. If he rejects
such construction, the City Attorney shall, on direction of the Governing Body,
proceed to enforce the guarantees provided in this title.
   E.   Extension Of Time: Where good cause exists, the City Engineer may
recommend to the Governing Body to extend the period of time for completion
under subsection B of this section. Such extension of time shall be reported to
the Governing Body and recorded in the minutes of each body. No such extension
shall be granted unless security as provided in subsection B of this section
has been provided by the subdivider covering the extended period of time. (Ord.
90-02, 6-5-1990; amd. 1994 Code; Ord. 19-04-21, - -2021)
11-2-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS:
Water, sewer and electrical installations necessary to provide adequate and
appropriate service to subdivisions developed under the terms of this title (or
to subdivisions or additions or any part thereof, platted and approved pursuant
to these City subdivision regulations, or any other former ordinance, but as to
which water, sewer, and electrical installations have not been made at the
effective date hereof) may, at the option of the City, be constructed by the
City, and shall be under its direction and supervision, but if the City does
the construction, the subdivider shall deposit with the City Secretary, prior
to the beginning of any such utility construction, cash to defray the cost of
such construction and management of the project, as follows:
   A.   Deposit: Payment for installation of water and sewer facilities to be
installed by the City shall be based on the actual cost of construction,
including materials and labor. The City Engineer shall make the estimate of the
cost of construction. Before any construction begins, a utility extension
agreement shall be executed between the City and the subdivider with the cost
figure to be based on said estimate. Upon execution of said agreement, an
amount equal to the estimated cost of construction shall be paid in cash to the
City by the subdivider and shall be paid into such special or General Fund as
the Governing Body may, from time to time, determine. Such payments shall not
be considered as a trust fund, but rather a contribution to the construction of
the City's public utility. If the actual cost of construction is greater than
the deposited amount, then the difference shall be paid to the City by the
subdivider. If the deposited amount is greater than the actual cost of
construction, then the difference will be refunded by the City to the
subdivider.
   B.   City Property: Upon completion of the system and acceptance by the
City, the installation becomes the property of the City to operate and
maintain.
   C.   Off-Site Lines:
      1.   Off-Site Water Lines: The City may, provided funds are available,
participate in the extension of off-site water lines and may pay for the pipe
in excess of the size required of the developer.
      2.   Off-Site Sewer Lines: The City may, provided funds are available,
participate in the extension of off-site sewer lines and may pay for the pipe
in excess of the size required of the developer.
   D.   Responsibility For Payment For Installation Cost:
      1.   Streets: The City may participate, providing funds are available,
for street paving in excess of forty foot (40') width, except where such extra
widths are in commercial developments or where they are not required by the
City.
      2.   Drainage: The City may participate, providing funds are available,
in the extra cost of large drainage structures on principal streets shown on
the circulation plan.
      3.   Water And Sewer Taps: In addition to the water and sewer main
extensions, a tap charge will be required for both water and sewer in the
amount set by the Governing Body by ordinance. These amounts are to be paid by
the developer at the time the application is made for the tap. In addition to
these amounts the meter deposit(s) shall be required.
      4.   Street Lights: Street lights shall be installed and paid for by the
developer at the locations required by the City, including along boundary
streets.
      5.   Street Signs: Street signs and markers, in accordance with standards
adopted by the City, are required at each intersection within the subdivision
and at street entrances into the subdivision. The developer will provide and
install all street signs at his own expense. All signs shall be in place by the
time the subdivision is open for use.
      6.   Temporary Water Service: The City may furnish temporary water
service to houses under construction. Temporary water service may be provided
upon application at any desired location. The developer shall be required, upon
application for such temporary service, to make a meter deposit before such
service is provided and, upon requesting a disconnect of the temporary service,
he shall be refunded the deposit less the amount of water used. (Ord. 16-07-17,
7-18-2017)
11-2-8: LARGER TRACTS:
Where the proposed subdivision constitutes a unit of a large tract owned by the
subdivider, which is intended to be subsequently subdivided as additional units
of the same subdivision, the preliminary and final plat shall be accompanied by
a layout of the entire area, showing the tentative proposed layout of streets,
blocks, drainage, water, sewerage and other improvements for such areas. The
overall layout, if approved by the Governing Body, shall be attached to and
filed with a copy of the approved subdivision plat in the permanent files of
the City. Thereafter, plats of subsequent units of such subdivision shall
conform to such approved overall layout, unless changed by the Governing Body
who may change such approved overall layout only when it finds:
   A.   That adherence to the previously approved overall layout will hinder
the orderly subdivision of their land in the area in accordance with the
provisions of this title; or
   B.   That adherence to the previously approved overall layout will be
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare or will be injurious to
other property in the area. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN STANDARDS AND REQUIRED LAND IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Conformance With Standards Required
11-3-2: General Standards
11-3-3: Building Site Improvements
11-3-4: Streets
11-3-5: Alleys
11-3-6: Sidewalks
11-3-7: Water Installation
11-3-8: Sewer Facilities And Waste Disposal
11-3-9: Street Lighting, Utility Lines, And Easements
11-3-10: Monuments And Corner Markers
11-3-11: Drainage
11-3-12: Lots
11-3-13: Blocks
11-3-14: Crosswalk Ways
11-3-15: Parks And Other Public Use
11-3-16: Fence Buffering
11-3-17: Reimbursement Policy
11-3-18: Conditions Of Plat Approval
11-3-1: CONFORMANCE WITH STANDARDS REQUIRED:
No preliminary or final plat shall be approved by the commission or Governing
Body and no completed improvements shall be acceptable by the City unless they
conform to the following standards and specifications. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
11-3-2: GENERAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Conformity With Comprehensive Plan: The subdivision shall conform to
the Comprehensive Plan of the City and parts thereof.
   B.   Provision For Future Subdivisions: If a tract is subdivided into
parcels larger than ordinary building lots, such parcels shall be arranged to
allow for the opening of future streets.
   C.   Reserve Strips Prohibited: There shall be no reserve strips controlling
access to land dedicated or intended to be dedicated to public use. (Ord. 90-
02, 6-5-1990)
11-3-3: BUILDING SITE IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   No subdivision or part thereof shall be approved if proposed
subdivision development in an established flood hazard area will individually
or collectively, significantly increase flood flows, heights or damages.
   B.   Building sites, residences, motels, resorts and similar uses for human
occupation in established flood hazard areas shall meet the requirements of the
Federal Flood Insurance Program as adopted by the City.
   C.   Building sites for structures other than residences outside of
established flood hazard areas shall ordinarily be filed as provided in the
City's codes and ordinances controlling such activities.
   D.   When the Governing Body determines, based on study by the City staff,
that only part of a proposed plat can be safely developed, it shall limit
development to that part and shall require that the method of development be
consistent with its determination.
   E.   When the subdivider does not intend to develop the plat himself and the
City Engineer determines that limitations are required to insure safe
development, the Governing Body may require the subdivider to impose
appropriate deed restrictions on the land. Such deed restrictions shall be
inserted in every deed and noted on the face of the final plat.
   F.   Floor level of the buildings are to be a minimum of eighteen inches
(18") above the top of the nearest curb and gutter, the grade of which shall be
approved by the City. The City shall require new construction within flood
prone areas to meet or exceed the base flood elevation. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-
2017)
11-3-4: STREETS:
   A.   Street Layout:
      1.   Adequate and paved streets shall be provided by the subdivider and
the arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of each shall
conform to the Comprehensive Plan of the City and shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to topographic conditions, to public
safety and convenience and in their appropriate relationship to the proposed
use of land to be served by such streets. The street layout shall be devised
for the most advantageous development of the entire neighborhood.
      2.   There shall be at least one hundred feet (100') of straight street
between reverse curves.
      3.   Maximum distance between streets which are to align with existing
and/or future streets shall be one thousand feet (1,000').
   B.   Relation To Adjoining Street System: Where necessary to the
neighborhood pattern, existing streets in adjoining areas shall be continued
and shall be at least as wide as such existing streets and in alignment
therewith.
   C.   Projection Of Streets: Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in the subdivision shall make provisions for the proper
projection of streets into such unsubdivided areas.
   D.   Street Jogs: Street jogs with center line offsets of less than one
hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be prohibited.
   E.   Street Intersections: Street intersections shall be as nearly at right
angles as practicable, giving due regard to terrain, topography, site distances
and safety. No intersecting street shall be plotted with the angle included
between adjoining street lines less than seventy five degrees (75°) nor more
than one hundred fifteen degrees (115°).
   F.   Dead-End Streets: Dead-end streets shall be prohibited, except as short
stubs to permit future expansion.
   G.   Cul-De-Sacs: In general, cul-de-sacs shall not exceed five hundred feet
(500') in length and shall have a turnaround of not less than one hundred feet
(100') in diameter (ROW) with a pavement diameter of eighty feet (80') in
residential areas and shall have a turnaround not less than two hundred feet
(200') in diameter (ROW) with a pavement diameter of one hundred eighty feet
(180') in commercial and industrial areas.
   H.   Streets On Comprehensive Plan: Where a subdivision includes a street as
shown on the circulation plan of the City, that street shall be platted in the
approximate location shown on the plan. The right-of-way shall be equal to or
greater than that indicated on the Comprehensive Plan for streets.
   I.   Minor Streets: Minor streets shall be laid out so as to discourage
their use by fast and through traffic. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
   J.   Pavement Widths And Rights-Of-Way: The design standards for all
roadways to be constructed under the requirements of the subdivision ordinance
shall be constructed in accordance with the design standards as set out in
table C3.2-1 of this section, incorporated herein for all purposes.
Residential streets (local streets) with a minimum right-of- way of fifty feet
(50') and a minimum pavement width of thirty two feet (32') back of curb to
back of curb.
   TABLE C3.2-1
   PROPOSED DESIGN STANDARDS
   Revised 2017
Design                 High Speed Principal Minor              Residential
Characteristic Freeway Principal  Arterial  Arterial Collector Collector
                       Arterial
                        High
Design         Freeway  Speed     Principal Minor       Collector    Residential
Characteristic          Principal Arterial  Arterial                 Collector
                        Arterial
Facility       6        4 to 6    2         1           1/2          n/a
spacing (mi.)
Signal spacing n/a      1/2       1/2       1/2         1/2          n/a
(mi.)
Access spacing 500'     500'      500'      300'        150' - 200'  n/a
Unsignaled     n/a      350'      350'      300'        200'         n/a
access spacing
Number of      4        4         6         4           2            2
moving lanes
Number of      4        0         0         0           0            0
access lanes
Right-of-way   400'     150'      120'      100'        80'          50' - 60'
width
Pavement width 152'     76' - 84' 76' - 90' 66'         44'          37' - 43'
Lane width     12'      12'       12'       11' - 12'   11' - 12'    11' - 12'
Design speed   70 mph   60 mph    50 mph    50 mph      40 mph       30 - 30 mph
Maximum grade  4.0%     5.0%      5.0%      5.0%        6.0%         As per City
                                                                     Engineer
Maximum        4.0%     5.0%      5.0%      5.0%        6.0%         As per City
curvature                                                            Engineer
Stopping sight 850'     650'      650'      650'        500'         As per City
distance                                                             Engineer
Vertical       16.5'    16.5'     16.5'     16.5'       16.5'        16.5'
clearance
Horizontal     2,640'   1,320'    1,320'    1,320'      660'         As per City
curve, radius                                                        Engineer
Curb and       n/a      18"       18"       18"         18"          18"
gutter
Median         48'      48'       16'       16'         0'           0'
Corner
clearance:
Upstream       n/a      300'      300'      300'        150'         As per City
                                                                     Engineer
Downstream     n/a      300'      300'      300'        150'         As per City
                                                                     Engineer
Curb radius    n/a      30'       30'       30'         30'          30'
Shoulders:
Inside         10'      4'        Curb      n/a         n/a          n/a
Outside        10'      10'       Curb      Curb        Curb         Curb
Pavement
cross-slope
(ft./ft.):
Normal cross-  0.02     0.02      0.02      0.02        0.02         0.02
slope
Superelevation 0.06     0.04      0.04      0.04        n/a          n/a
(max.)
Side slopes:
Back slope     4:1 - 6: 4:1       Curb      Curb        Curb         Curb
               1
Front slope    12:1     6:1       Curb      Curb        Curb         Curb
Median slope   6:1      8:1       Curb      n/a         n/a          n/a
Construction:
                                            95% - if    95% - if     95% - if P.I.
Subgrade       As per   As per    As per    P.I. >19    P.I. >19     >19 lime
compaction     TXDOT    TXDOT     TXDOT     lime        lime         stabilization
                                            stabilizati stabilizatio required
                                            on required n required
Base thickness As per   As per    As per    12" - 98%   10" - 98%    8" - 98%
and compaction TXDOT    TXDOT     TXDOT
Asphalt        As per   As per    As per
thickness and  TXDOT    TXDOT     TXDOT     2" - 98%    2" - 98%     1.5" - 98%
compaction
Paving section As per   As per    As per                             $32.56 -
escrow per     City     City      City      $87.66      $66.68       $40.20
L.F. of ROW    Engineer Engineer  Engineer
 
   K.   Boundary Streets: Pavement widths and rights-of-way of streets forming
part of the boundary of the subdivision shall be as follows:
      1.   Where the proposed subdivision abuts upon an existing street or
half-street that does not conform to subsection J of this section, the
subdivider shall dedicate right-of-way sufficient to make the full right-of-way
width conform to subsection J of this section and there shall be paved so much
of such right-of-way as to make the full pavement width comply with subsection
J of this section. Before any pavement is laid to widen existing pavement, the
existing pavement shall be cut back two feet (2') to assure an adequate subbase
and pavement joint.
      2.   No half-streets will be permitted in new subdivision plats.
   L.   Curbs And Gutters: Curbs and gutters shall be installed by the
subdivider on both sides of all interior streets and on the subdivision side of
all streets forming part of the boundary of the subdivision.
   M.   Street Construction: Materials and workmanship shall conform with City
standards for street construction as passed by resolution of the Governing
Body.
   N.   Street Name: Names of new streets shall not duplicate or cause
confusion with the names of existing streets unless the new streets are a
continuation of or in alignment with existing streets, in which case names of
existing streets shall be used. The developer shall provide and install street
and traffic signs conforming to City standards and specifications and shall
have approval by the City.
   O.   Street Patterns: Streets shall be platted with appropriate regard to
natural and topographic features so as to lend themselves to attractive
treatment.
   P.   Street Grades: Grades of all streets shall be sufficient to ensure
adequate surface drainage, but shall not be more than eight percent (8%).
   Q.   Profiles And Elevations: The City Engineer and Governing Body shall
require profiles and elevations of streets to determine compliance with any
requirements of this section.
   R.   Marginal Access Street: Where a subdivision has frontage on or borders
a collector, arterial, and/or an arterial street, the City of Alamo may require
a marginal access street during the subdivision approval process; such a
marginal access street may be provided when proposed residential lots back up
to, side up to, or front such streets designed for heavier traffic. In the
process of the plats’ examination where a marginal access street is imposed,
the City will prohibit residential driveways from directly accessing onto the
collector, arterial, and/or major thoroughfare. If a residential driveway is
permitted to have such access by the Board of Commissioners due to very unique
circumstances, then the City will have the latitude to impose other reasonable
traffic safety measures, e.g., specifying the safe distance or location of the
driveway along the lots’ frontage, private speed humps, additional street
lighting, etc.
   S.   Median Islands in Paved Street Section: When a developer desires a
median island within the boundaries of a paved street section, whether a public
street or a private street, the median island template as found in Attachment A
shall be required. It is declared that any developer/agent proposing deviation
from the standards reflected thereon, shall file an application for variance
which shall follow the subdivision variance protocol, inclusive of imposing the
prevailing filing fee. The ultimate authority on whether variance should be
awarded or not shall rest upon the Board of Commissioners. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-
18-2017; amd. Ord. 19-04-21, - -2021; Ord. 69-10-22, 10-4-2022)
11-3-5: ALLEYS:
   A.   Width And Paving: Alleys shall be provided at the rear of all lots in
commercial, industrial, and townhouse subdivisions. Alleys may be provided at
the discretion of the subdivider in residential and multi-family subdivisions.
All alleys provided shall be paved and shall be twenty feet (20') in width. In
lieu of alleys for residential subdivisions, the subdivider shall dedicate a
utility easement in the back of all lots in a width of ten feet (10'). In lieu
of alleys in commercial and industrial areas, the City may allow a paved fire
lane to be located as per the direction of the Fire Marshal.
   B.   Intersecting Alleys Or Utility Easements: Where two (2) alleys or
utility easements intersect or where an alley or utility easement turns at a
right angle, a cutoff of not less than ten feet (10') from the normal
intersection of the property or easement line shall be provided along each
property or easement line.
   C.   Dead-End Alleys: Dead-end alleys shall not be permitted.
   D.   Alleys Which Do Not Connect On A Straight Course: If alleys are not
themselves straight within each block or if the same do not connect on a
straight course with the alleys of adjoining blocks, then all necessary
easements shall be provided for the placing of guy wires in order to support
poles set on curving or deviating rights-of-way of alleys. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-
18-2017)
11-3-6: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Sidewalks no less than five feet (5') in width shall be installed in
new subdivisions as deemed necessary by the Governing Body and will be
installed at the expense of the subdivider. For example, along streets that
form the boundary of a subdivision and along areas not normally the
responsibility of the future property owners.
   B.   No internal sidewalks are required until the lot is improved but at the
time such improvements are constructed, a sidewalk complying with the
provisions hereof shall be provided at the front of such lot, and also along
the interior street side of corner lots.
   C.   All interior sidewalks shall be not less than four feet (4') in width
and shall be of concrete construction and shall be in compliance with ADA
requirements for ramps.
   D.   Sidewalks shall be parallel to the street, insofar as possible.
   E.   As site conditions vary, sidewalks may be placed immediately adjacent
to the street and next to the curb, when the street is paved or at the property
line (providing a place for street landscaping) at the option of the
subdivider, but all sidewalks in a subdivision shall be uniform in this
respect.
   F.   Sidewalks no less than five feet (5') in width shall be provided as
deemed necessary by the Governing Body along streets that form boundaries of a
subdivision, in commercial, industrial, public and multi-family areas and shall
be constructed with ADA ramps in areas where such ramps are required. Such
additional sidewalks as the subdivider may desire shall be permitted. (Ord. 16-
07-17, 7-18-2017)
11-3-7: WATER INSTALLATION:
   A.   Water Supply And Distribution:
      1.   All subdivisions shall be provided with a water distribution system
approved by the City Engineer and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality
(TCEQ). The subdivider shall be responsible for providing this system at his
expense.
      2.   All water systems located in flood prone areas, whether public or
private, shall be floodproofed below the established floodplain elevation.
      3.   If there is an existing public water supply system on or within one
thousand three hundred twenty feet (1,320') near the subdivision the subdivider
shall extend from the existing system to connect to the proposed system as
required by the City of Alamo.
      4.   Water mains for distribution, future extension and internal service
shall not be less than eight inches (8") in diameter in residential,
commercial, and multifamily areas and shall not be less than ten inches (10")
in industrial areas. All pipe, fittings, and material shall be approved by the
City of Alamo.
      5.   All developments bordering planned extensions of major transmission/
distribution lines shall install such lines to and through the development at
the cost of the subdivider subject to the City’s standard reimbursement
policies.
      6.   Standard fire hydrants shall be installed and paid for by the
developer and connected to the water distribution system of the subdivision as
per specifications of the Fire Marshal, City Engineer and of the State Board of
Insurance. The minimum water main diameter for lines with fire hydrants shall
be eight inches (8") in diameter and shall be looped with two (2) different
sources of distribution unless otherwise approved by the City of Alamo.
      7.   Fire hydrant spacing shall be such that there will be a fire hydrant
every three hundred feet (300') in commercial, industrial, multifamily, and
institutional areas. Spacing shall be every five hundred feet (500') in
residential areas. All distances will be measured along public right-of-way or
emergency access ways as determined by the Fire Marshal. Blue markers shall be
affixed on the pavement to indicate the location of all fire hydrants.
      8.   The developer’s contractor shall provide the water meter boxes as an
integral part of the infrastructural improvements of the approved subdivision.
The type of meter boxes shall be pursuant to the direction provided by the
entity that has water CCN jurisdiction.
(Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 81-11-22, 11-1-2022; Ord. 92-4-24, 4-2-
2024)
11-3-8: SEWER FACILITIES AND WASTE DISPOSAL:
   A.   All subdivisions shall be connected to a sewage collection and disposal
system approved by the City Engineer at the expense of the subdivider.
   B.   If a separate sanitary sewage disposal system is proposed, it must be
approved, in writing, by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ)
prior to approval of the final plat. These written approvals shall be presented
to the City and City Engineer.
   C.   The City Engineer may prohibit installation of sewage disposal
facilities requiring soil absorption systems where such systems will not
function due to high ground water, flooding or unsuitable soil characteristics.
Such action by the City Engineer shall be based on the review and finding of
the City and/or County Health Officer. The City may require that the subdivider
note on the face of the plat and in any deed of conveyance that soil absorption
fields are prohibited in designated areas. No designs shall be approved by the
City for installation of septic tank systems on lots less than one-half (½)
acre. If the subdivider wishes to develop a subdivision using septic tanks, a
plat note must be placed on the plat and the deed restrictions stating that the
future owners understand that they are purchasing a lot without sanitary sewer
lines and that the City is not required to provide such services to such lots.
   D.   If a sanitary sewer system is located on or within one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320') near the proposed subdivision, the City shall
require the subdivider to provide sewage facilities to connect to the system
and shall prescribe the procedures to be followed by the subdivider in
connecting to the system. All developments bordering planned extensions of
major transmission/distribution lines shall install such lines to and through
the development at the cost of the subdivider subject to the City’s standard
reimbursement policies.
   E.   The minimum size of sanitary sewer shall be eight inches (8") in
diameter. Sewer service stub outs shall be four inches (4") for residential
uses and six inches (6") for commercial, industrial, multi-family, and
institutional uses. In order to facilitate sewer cleaning, the City of Alamo
will require manhole spacing of no more than four hundred feet (400') apart,
unless otherwise approved by the Public Works Director.
   F.   Pipe shall be polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe (SDR 26) all of which
having the proper wall thickness and bedding required for the specific
application or as specified by the City. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord.
81-11-22, 11-1-2022)
11-3-9: STREET LIGHTING, UTILITY LINES, AND EASEMENTS:
   A.   Installation: All utility lines that pass under a street or alley shall
be installed before the street or alley is paved. Where it is necessary that
utility lines pass under the street or alley pavement, they shall be extended
to a point at least three feet (3') beyond the edge of the pavement.
   B.   Minimum Utility Line Height: Overhead utility lines crossing alleys
shall be a minimum of eighteen feet (18') high.
   C.   Easements: Except where alleys of not less than twenty feet (20') in
width are required, easements not less than fifteen feet (15') in width shall
be retained (71/2 feet on each side of rear lot lines). Where necessary,
easements not less than ten feet (10') in width on each side, lot lines shall
be retained for poles, wires, conduits, storm sewers, sanitary sewers, water
lines, open drains, gas lines or other utilities. Such easements may be
required across parts of lots other than as described above upon recommendation
of the City Engineer. Where the proposed platted area adjoins area, the full
alley easement width may be required along the lots adjoining the platted or
unplatted areas.
   D.   Street Lighting And Electrical Services: All electrical and
communication lines shall be installed underground. Streetlights shall be
placed on residential streets at each intersection and in each cul-de-sac. The
spacing of the streetlights shall not be less than two hundred fifty feet
(250') or greater than three hundred feet (300'). If the distance between
intersections is greater than three hundred feet (300'), intermediate light may
be required. Subdividers are responsible for placing streetlights in all
subdivisions.
      1.   Streetlight fixtures for arterial roadways are to consist of four
hundred (400) watt, high pressure sodium, cobra type fixtures with six feet
(6') to fourteen feet (14') extensions mounted on a thirty five foot (35')
concrete standard pole. If wood poles are present they may be utilized as long
as height and spacing comply with standard.
      2.   The streetlight fixtures for residential roadways are to consist of
two hundred fifty (250) watt high pressure sodium, cobra type fixtures with six
foot (6') extensions mounted on thirty five foot (35') concrete standard poles.
Spacing preferred at three hundred foot (300') intervals.
      3.   Streetlight approval is required on all subdivisions.
   E.   Streetlights Required: The requirement of the placement of streetlights
in extraterritorial jurisdiction subdivisions shall be applicable as per
Hidalgo County minimum requirements. In lieu thereof, the subdivider may be
responsible for placement of money in escrow with the City or the County, in an
amount equal to the cost for the placement of such streetlights as estimated by
the applicable electric company providing for the same and upon annexation by
the City, if funds were placed with the City, the City shall provide for the
placement of streetlights using such escrow funds. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
11-3-10: MONUMENTS AND CORNER MARKERS:
   A.   All block corners, angle points and points of curves and all corners of
boundary lines of subdivisions shall be marked with a one-half inch (1/2")
steel rod two feet (2') in length, set in the center of a concrete monument six
inches (6") in diameter and thirty six inches (36") deep with the top flush
with the finished ground surface.
   B.   Where, due to topographic conditions, permanent structures or other
conditions, the view is obstructed between any two (2) adjacent monuments,
intermediate monuments shall be so set as to assure a clear view between
adjacent monuments.
   C.   Intermediate corner property corner markers, consisting of one-half
inch (1/2") steel rod or three-quarter inch (3/4") pipe, three feet (3') in
length, shall be driven flush with the ground surface to mark the corners of
all lots. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
11-3-11: DRAINAGE:
   A.   General. The purpose of this section is to outline the general
parameters for proper design considerations of drainage requirements in Alamo,
Texas. By establishing guidelines for the orderly presentation of the design, a
storm drainage system compatible with needs of Alamo can be achieved. As with
any design, all requirements, limitations and procedures for every storm
situation cannot be identified; therefore, the responsibility of using sound
engineering judgment must be prudently assessed and consistently practiced.
   B.   Master Drainage Plan And Policy. All drainage design must be
coordinated with the. City of Alamo, and with the latest approved Master
Drainage Plans, which may exist and be available, If applicable, the design
must identify the current floodway and flood boundary map prepared by the.
Federal Emergency Management Agency and comply with all their requirements.
      1.   General Policy.
         a.   This Drainage Policy shall apply to all drainage improvements
within the City limits of Alamo, Texas, and its immediate Extraterritorial
Jurisdiction (ETJ); though county drainage policies may also be considered to
ETJ plats. When a conflict in design arises with applicable criteria (Hidalgo
County Drainage District No. 1, Texas Department of Transportation, etc.) the
more restrictive criteria shall generally govern, as recommended by the city’s
consulting engineer.
         b.   All drainage reports and plans shall be prepared by a Licensed
Professional Engineer holding a valid license to practice in the State of
Texas.
         c.   All proposed development within the City and its ETJ shall
require a storm sewer outfall designated in accordance with the prevailing
Master Drainage Plan; or in its absence, pursuant to responsible engineering
analysis of the drainage basin.
         d.   In instances where proposed drainage infrastructure improvements
require conveyance to an outfall, the developer shall be responsible for design
of the conveyance to accommodate storm water runoff from fully developed
conditions within the entire subject drainage basin and all reasonable
interconnects. The City may consider a cost share or reimbursement program for
(oversized) costs associated with the construction of the offsite conveyance;
but such participation by the City is not a mandatory consideration. The City
shall have the final decision as to what the drainage infrastructure shall be.
         e.   All storm sewer conduit and related appurtenances maintained by
the City of Alamo shall be located within City right-of-way and/or dedicated
drainage easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway, natural channel or stream, there shall be provided an easement or
right-of-way conforming substantially to the limit of such watercourse, plus
additional width to accommodate maintenance and future needs.
         f.   All drainage facilities including street gutters, inlets, pipes,
and related appurtenances to the drainage outfall system shall be designed to
intercept and convey runoff from a 10-year frequency storm event and checked
for a 25-year frequency storm event.
         g.   The drainage outfall system (channels and ditches) shall be
designed to convey and/or detain storm water runoff from a 50-year frequency
storm, The developer must comply with regulations to attain approval for
connection to a drainage outfall system through a jurisdictional entity.
         h.   Improvements which will increase the frequency of flooding or the
depth of inundation of unprotected structures in the 100-year flood plain or
areas of flooding shall not be permitted for construction. The developer must
comply with any prevailing City drainage regulations that would strictly govern
this policy.
         i.   Off-site discharge for post development conditions shall not
exceed the pre-development peak discharge for all storm events up to and
including the 10-year storm event.
         j.   Stormwater runoff generated from developed improvements shall be
detained onsite for a 50-year frequency storm event and released into the
receiving system at the pre-developed, peak discharge rate for a 10-year
frequency storm event.
         k.   For redevelopments that have no existing detention, the pre-
developed peak discharge rate shall include land cover prior to any development
on site.
         l.   For master planned developments, stormwater detention
requirements shall be reassessed, as needed, if land use is substantially
changed such that engineered calculations show an increase in runoff when
compared to its original approval.
         m.   Residential lots shall have a post-development finished grade of
0.25% prior to a certificate of occupancy being issued; said 0.25% grade
intended to provide perpetual positive drainage toward the front of the lot and
toward the street’s storm system. The general contractor shall be responsible
for such compliance. The 0.25% slope is in accord to the Hidalgo County’s
development policies (3.1.4.1). However, in circumstances where a new multi-lot
subdivision is being developed, it is hereby required that before said
development is approved for recordation that the developer or his/her agent
shall grade the properties with a minimum 0.25% slope (from rear-to-front) to
result in positive drainage should said properties remain dormant for any given
tenure.
         n.   In no instance shall site grading of the building site adversely
affect neighboring properties.
         o.   In the event of a difference in grade between adjacent
properties, each property shall be graded to drain away from the deviation.
Grade differentials in excess of 1-foot shall require an engineered retaining
structure,
         p.   Construction activity shall not interfere with the normal
operation of existing drainage systems.
         q.   Storm drainage designs shall account for off-site drainage
patterns affected by any proposed drainage improvements,
         r.   Variances from procedures described in this policy shall require
advisory action by the Planning and Zoning Commission during the plats*
examination wherein the City’s engineer and/or consulting engineer shall
provide his/her professional opinion as to the merits of the variance being
requested. Thereafter, the variance shall be presented to the Board of
Commissioners, along with the action to the accompanying plat, where said Board
shall consider the variance request, staffs position, and the recommendation of
the Planning & Zoning Commission, where after said Board shall tender its final
action on the matter. A variance request to the drainage policies shall incur a
$200 administrative filing fee to off-set engineer’s time to evaluate
calculations, storm models, communications with various agencies/departments,
etc.
         s.   All formulas and factors appearing in this policy are presented
in English units unless noted otherwise.
         t.   Acceptable methods of regulation of peak flow achieved by on-site
or off-site include parking lots, recreational areas, swales, ponds,
reservoirs, channels, and yard areas below top of curb, provided Water does not
escape through curb openings, driveways. However, the design is not limited to
those methods listed above. Bermed yards are not acceptable. Rear swales in a
series of residential lots are also not acceptable.
   C.   Design Storm Frequencies. Storm drainage planning requires
establishment of standards to accomplish design objectives. Storm frequency is
a basic criterion necessary in storm drainage design and refers to the
magnitude of a storm. Therefore, the selected design frequency establishes the
degree of protection desired. Initial storms, as referred to in this manual
designate a storm frequency within a 10-year reoccurrence cycle. Run-off from
an initial storm is normally intercepted and conveyed by a conveyance system
consisting of inlets and a pipe system, A major storm refers to a rainfall
having the probability of reoccurrence once every 100 years. Major storms are
controlled and conveyed in open drainage systems. Design storm frequencies are
as follows:
TABLE II-1: DESIGN STORM FREQUENCIES
Area or Facility Design Frequency (Developed)
TABLE II-1: DESIGN STORM FREQUENCIES
Area or Facility                                  Design Frequency (Developed)
Enclosed Pipe System (Internal Subdivision)       10 years
Enclosed Pipe System (Outfall Master Drainage     10 years
Plan)
Channels and Ditches (1)                          50 years
Culverts and Bridges                              50 years
Floodways Between Building Lines                  100 years
(1) Channels and ditches shall have one (1') foot
of freeboard Note: Storm drainage designed to
convey the indicated frequency storm and detain    
the difference between the 10-year pre-developed
runoff and the developed design frequency.
 
   D.   Drainage Considerations. Drainage design is an integral part of any new
development. Proper planning and coordination of the drainage scheme, along
with the development plans, is required to achieve an operational and
economical storm drainage system. Lack of drainage consideration during the
initial planning phase may lead to unnecessary inundation, and added cost due
to extension of the drainage system into areas not properly considered.
Existing sites and redevelopment areas shall require appropriate detention
measures to be designed and constructed.
      1.   Responsibility in Development.
         a.   Developers must provide acceptable conveyance for storm waters
from the development to the outfall at their expense. All drainage facilities
shall be designed to provide capacity for fully developed conditions within the
entire subject drainage basin. Please view division B.1.d. of this section for
further comprehensive cross-referencing.
         b.   A seven (7) year Developer’s Reimbursement Contract may be
entered into with the City for the costs of over sizing the offsite system for
future development. Future development that connects to the system is
ultimately responsible for reimbursement. After the 7 year tenure, the proceeds
of applicable reimbursement by tying-in developers shall be provided to the
City of Alamo (for their monitoring and perpetual maintenance costs of said
infrastructure). Reimbursement by subdividing developers shall always be
required prior to plat recordation.
         c.   All on-site drainage construction development is the
responsibility of the Developer.
         d.   All on-site detention facilities must be designed by a
professional engineer in accordance with City’s standards specified herein and
placed within easements. Access easements to the facility shall be provided
with paved or with an all-weather surface, dependent on maintenance
circumstances.
         e.   Internal enclosed pipe drainage systems shall be designed by a
professional engineer for a 10-year storm return frequency. Offsite outfall and
detention design shall be based on Table II-1.
         f.   Drainage requirements not considered through the subdivision
process will be addressed during the building permit process. At any rate, all
new construction shall meet the city’s drainage requirements, including but not
limited to, reimbursement fees, buffer fencing, possible dedication of related
drainage easements, etc.
   E.   Water Spread Limit. Streets function primarily to serve traffic, and
for that reason, must be expected to have some degree of usability during
periods of rainfall Water spread limits are an effective way of defining the
protection required to achieve that usability. The following water spread
limits are established:
 
TABLE II- 2: WATER SPREAD LIMITS
Street Classification        Permissible Water Spread
Major Thoroughfare (Divided) 10-year storm -1 traffic lane must stay open in
                             each direction
Minor Streets                10-year storm -1 traffic lane must stay open
Residential Streets          10-year storm
 
The permissible water spreads are based upon the initial storm frequencies (10-
year), but consideration must be given to street conveyance of the major storm
(100 year) and possible flooding. All streets shall be capable of conveying a
major storm without water encroaching into adjacent buildings. Therefore, the
maximum spread limits in streets for a major .storm shall generally., be the
building lines. This requirement of utilizing the streets to convey the major
storm run-off may require increasing the capacity of the enclosed drainage
system.
   F.   Drainage System Requirements.
The complete drainage in an urban area is composed of: (1) The Conveyance
System, consisting of inlets, storm drains, and the associated appurtenances to
convey the initial storm run-off (10- year); and (2) The Major System for the
major run-off (25-year to 100-year), which consists of swales, ditches,
channels, floodways, and emergency overflows to prevent water encroachment into
residential and commercial facilities.
The initial storm drain system shall be required when the run-off exceeds the
limitations established in divisions A. through E. of this section. Inlets and
storm drains shall be designed in accordance with applicable portions of this
section. All pipe systems maintained as a public facility shall be constructed
with reinforced concrete pipe or other materials approved by the City Engineer
or the City-s consulting engineer. The drainage design shall include a plan and
profile of storm drainage improvements and shall include a plot of the design
hydraulic grade line.
Reinforced concrete lined channels shall have a maximum side slope of 1.5:1
(horizontal to vertical). Unlined ditches shall be no steeper than 2:1 for
stability and maintenance purposes. All channels, lined and unlined, shall have
a 1-inch per foot traverse bottom slope to the centerline.
Unlined ditches will be considered for quantities larger than the equivalent
flow of a 72- inch pipe. These channels shall provide one (1) foot of freeboard
minimum. Additional freeboard shall be considered where wave action is
anticipated. All drainage ditches shall also provide detention for the
difference between the 10-year pre-developed flow and the developed frequency.
All culverts crossing under streets shall extend from property line to property
line, plus sufficient length on each end to permit a 3:1 slope to extend from
the street property line to a point six (6) inches beneath the top of the
headwall. All culverts shall have adequate reinforced concrete headwalls and/or
wing walls for 3:1 fill slope with aprons at each end, see detail. Culvert ends
shall be protected in accordance with Texas Department of Transportation,
drainage facility placement. All culverts shall be designed by a professional
engineer to provide sufficient clear zone to ensure vehicular safety.
Additional storm drain criteria follow:
      1.   Minimum velocity with the pipe flowing full shall be three (3) feet
per second.
      2.   Minimum storm drainpipe shall be constructed of reinforced concrete
pipe (RCP), and the minimum diameter shall be 24 inches; however, 18" RCPs may
be used should there be a ground cover consideration
      3.   Pipe diameters shall not decrease downstream.
      4.   Pipe crowns at change sizes shall be set at the same elevation.
      5.   The City Engineer and/or consulting engineer will permit minimum
vertical and horizontal curves in the conduit only upon review and approval.
      6.   Street crowns shall be reduced for approximately 100 feet on each
side of valley gutters.
      7.   A maximum of two valley gutter crossings may be used at
intersections and shall not be placed at through streets.
      8.   Utilization of on-site detention is required and must be approved by
the City of Alamo, Texas; especially for subdivisions inside the city’s
corporate limits: for plats in Alamo’s ETJ, this will be assessed bn a case-by-
case basis depending on county policies, precedence, and other logistical
circumstances that may be germane to a sound drainage solution regarding
detention.
      9.   At streets with culverts or bridges, an emergency overflow shall be
provided to contain the 100-year channel flow within the building lines.
      10.   Streets should be graded to avoid sumps and utilize the natural
existing flow patterns.
      11.   The maximum length of gutter flow before run-off is intercepted by
an underground storm sewer system is 300 feet from the high point to an inlet
measured along the gutter (or a length meeting capacity). Maximum separation of
600 feet between inlets is also required. Water spread limits must also be
achieved, as per Texas Department of Transportation manual.
      12.   Erosion and sediment control during construction shall be
coordinated with the storm drainage design and in accordance with the current
Texas pollution discharge elimination system.
      13.   Discharge and outfall by use of agriculture field drains shall not
be permitted.
      14.   Valley gutters may be allowed if approved by the City of Alamo,
Texas. Minimum size shall be 6-feet wide.
      15.   Storm sewer systems shall be predominantly constructed within the
street right- of- ways only.
      16.   A maximum 8-inch bleeder line connection will be allowed to any
existing city storm sewer system. For connections bigger than this, detailed
engineering calculations, indicating minimum downstream and upstream areas are
affected, shall be submitted for approval.
   G.   Fees.
      1.   Off-site Outfall Drainage Costs.
In areas where the City or another Developer has installed the Off-site Outfall
Drainage Systems and a reimbursement policy and contract has been executed, all
proposed developments shall be required to pay their pro-rata share of those
costs as per the contract prior to the recordation of the subject/connecting
subdivision plat.
In areas where the Outfall Drainage System is not installed, the proposed
development may:
         a.   Install the required improvements identified on the latest
approved Master Drainage Plan (state/county/city) or as required by the City of
Alamo, Texas to the furthest upstream end of the development to a point of
outfall discharge and submit for a Reimbursement Contract.
         b.   Install drainage facilities sized as per the drainage policy for
the proposed development to the nearest existing outfall that has sufficient
capacity. The City may, at its option, oversize the facilities for future
growth in accordance with the latest approved Master Drainage Plan (state/
county/city) and initiate a Reimbursement Contract.
         c.   Propose alternate methods of drainage and conveyance which will
be submitted to the City for approval. Detain on-site all run-offs in excess of
the pre-development run-off (10 year) rate and quantity. All detention areas
must provide a method of drainage within a 48-hour period after the storm
passes.
      2.   Detention Costs. The Developer is responsible for all on-site
detention costs. Off-site detention proposals shall be subject to a case-by-
case review by the City Engineer and/or the City’s consulting engineer.
      3.   Over-sizing On-site Drainage and Detention Facilities. On-site
drainage and detention facilities will be the sole responsibility and cost of
the developer. Any oversizing will be borne by the developer, although it will
remain a city option on whether to partner share the oversized cost; however,
this option is clearly and unilaterally at the city’s sole discretion on
whether to participate or not. At no time will such oversizing may cause
additional flooding and/or overload the existing drainage system.
   H.   Design Parameters.
      1.   Hydrology.
         a.   The primary consideration in any drainage study must begin with
determination of rainfall in terms of intensity, duration, and frequency. The
data to be used for calculating the amount of rainfall and the determination of
run-off shall be that found in the Hydraulic Manual prepared and compiled by
the Texas Department of Transportation Bridge Division - latest Edition.
         b.   The Rational Method will be used due to its general simplicity
and acceptance. The Rational Method is based on the principal that if rain
persists at a uniform rate, the run-off will equal the rate of rainfall. This
solution method is applicable to small areas and shall not be applied to areas
exceeding 200 acres.
         The method is expressed by the formula:
   Q = CiA
      Where:
      Q =   Discharge in cfs. (cubic feet per second)
      C =   By land, use determination. Graph No. GR-1 may be used as allowed
by the City.
      I =   Rainfall intensity is inches per hour at the time of concentration
or average run-off Velocity in feet per minute of flow divided into the
distance in feet along the course. (I is determined from the I-D-F curves of
the TXDOT Hydraulic Manual.)
      A=   Area in acres of drainage basin
      I =   b
      (tc+d)e for Hidalgo County:
 
—     E     B   d
10 yr.  0,778 87  9,2
25 yr.  0.771 98  9,2
50 yr.  0.749 99  9.2
100 yr. 0.740 103 9.6
 
         c.   The Tables II-3 and II-4 show the adopted average velocities to
be used to calculate minimum times of concentration, percentage of impervious
area, street velocities and capacities to be used in the City of Alamo, Texas.
Graph No. GR-1 shows the adopted method for Ross miller’s Nomograph Estimation
of C (run-off coefficient).
 
TABLE II - 3: AVERAGE VELOCITIES FOR
TIME OF CONCENTRATION CALCULATIONS
Areas                       Slope in Percent %
                            .1 - .5 .6 - 3     4 - 7
Woodlands                   0.10    0.10 - 1.5 1.5 - 2.5
Lawns/Pastures, Residential 0.15    0.20 - 2.5 2.5 - 3.5
Cultivated                  0.25    0.30 - 3.0 3.0 - 4.0
Storm Sewer/Outlet Channels Determine velocity with Manning’s Formula
 
TABLE II - 4: PERCENTAGE OF IMPERVIOUS AREA
Description Plot Size (sq. ft.) **Average Impervious Area %
TABLE II - 4: PERCENTAGE OF IMPERVIOUS AREA
Description              Plot Size (sq. ft.) **Average Impervious Area %
Residential Estate       >43,560             9
Residential Dwelling     43,560              17
Residential Dwelling     21,780              38
Residential Dwelling     16,000              43
Residential Dwelling     10,000              46
Residential Dwelling R-2 7,500               46
Residential Dwelling R-1 6,230               50
Multiple-family Dwelling Variable            72
Schools                  Variable            35
Churches                 Variable            85
Commercial District      Variable            85
Shopping Center District Variable            85
Industrial District      Variable            72
Freeway                  Variable            85
Open Land*               Variable            1
 
* Open land in rural areas and public parks increased to 1.0 percent to account
for roads, drives, and scattered buildings.
      2.   Hydraulics. Storm water is conveyed usually on the upper end of a
drainage basin by inlets and storm sewers (closed conduit systems) to channels
and through culverts and bridges. All calculations and design procedures for
this hydraulic work shall follow the Hydraulic Manual prepared and compiled by
the Texas Department of Transportation Bridge Division - latest Edition. Tables
II-6, II-7, and H-8 show adopted Manning’s Coefficients, minimum pipe slopes,
maximum channel velocities and roughness coefficients for channels to be used
in Alamo, Texas.
      3.   Complex and large drainage basins. For drainage areas larger than
200 acres use TR-55, HEC-1, HEC-HMS, or other hydrologic methods as approved by
the City Engineer.
 
TABLE II-6: MANNING’S COEFFICIENT OF ROUGHNESS FOR PIPE
Material                    Value of n   Adopted n Value
Concrete Monolithic Conduit 0.012- 0.017 0.015
Concrete Pipe               0.011-0.015  0.013
25% Paved                   0.021 -0.023 0.022
Fully Paved                 0.012-0.015  0.013
Plastic Pipe (Smooth)       0.011 -0.015 0.013
 
Note: V = 1.486/n   R2/3 s1/2 (Value where V= 3fps)
TABLE 11-7: RECOMMENDED MAXIMUM CHANNEL VELOCITIES
Channel Material Maximum Channel Velocity (fps)
TABLE 11-7: RECOMMENDED MAXIMUM CHANNEL VELOCITIES
Channel Material              Maximum Channel Velocity (fps)
Fine Sand                     2.0
Coarse Sand                   4.0
Fine Gravel                   6.0
Earth
   Sandy Silt              2.00
   Silt Clay               3.50
   Clay                    6.00
Grass Lined Earth
   Bermuda Grass - Sandy Si6.00
   Silt Clay               8.00
Reinforced Concrete Lining    15.0
 
TABLE II-8: MANNING’S COEFFICIENT OF ROUGHNESS
FOR CHANNELS
Channel Type n Values*
             Minimum Maximum
TABLE II-8: MANNING’S COEFFICIENT OF ROUGHNESS
FOR CHANNELS
Channel Type                                                                    n Values*
                                                                                Minimum Maximum
Concrete                                                                        0.012   0.018
Cement rubble                                                                   0.017   0.030
Concrete gutter                                                                 0.015   0.020
Rock rip-rap                                                                    0.030   0.045
Unlined Channel
   Poor grass growth                                                         0.025   0.035
   Average grass growth                                                      0.035   0.045
   Dense grass growth                                                        0,040   0.050
   Stony beds, weedy bank                                                    0.025   0.040
   Rock cuts, smooth & uniform                                               0.025   0.035
   Rock cuts, rugged & irregular                                             0.035   0.045
Natural Stream Channel
   Some grass & weeds; little or no brush                                    0.030   0.035
   Dense growth of weeds, depth of flow materially greater than weed height  0,035   0.050
   Some weeds, fight brush on banks                                          0.035   0.050
   Some weeds, heavy brush on banks                                          0.050   0.070
   For trees within channels with branches submerged at high stage, increase 0.010   0.020
all values above by:
Pasture, no brush
   Short grass                                                               0.030   0.035
   Tall grass                                                                0.035   0.050
Cultivated Areas
   No Crop                                                                   0.030   0.040
   Mature row crops                                                          0,035   0.045
   Mature Field crops                                                        0.040   0.050
   Heavy weeds, scattered brush                                              0.050   0.070
   Wooded                                                                    0.120   0.160
*Maximum and minimum “n” values adopted from the Texas Department of Transportation
 
   I.   Detention.
Continuous development that has occurred throughout the City of Alamo has
resulted in an increase both in the peak rates arid the total volumes of Storm
water run-off Therefore, land previously not subject to flooding has become
flood-prone as a result of unregulated run-off from the subsequent development.
Concurrently, land that was already flood-prone has experienced an increase in
the frequency and severity of flooding. The use of detention ponds (basins that
temporarily store storm water run-off) to reduce peak rates of run-off is an
effort by the City of Alamo, Texas and the County to reduce or eliminate these
changes, as well as to help maintain the traditional character of the
watershed.
The City’s adopted methodology for small urban detention ponds centers around
the Rational Method, which is essentially a simple equation used to calculate
the peak flow rate of storm water run-off for a particular storm and a
particular watershed. The equation is expressed as Q = CiA. “Q” is the peak
flow rate. “C” is the run-off coefficient representing the ratio of peak flow
rainfall intensity, “i” is the peak rainfall intensity which has a duration
equal to the time required for run-off to collect from all points in the
watershed (this time is referred to as the “time of concentration”). “A” is the
area of the contributing watershed. Since this method yields only one piece of
information (the peak flow rate), various modifications have been created in
order to generate more information and thus simulate or more closely
approximate real-life conditions, Two of these modifications are currently
being used and accepted by the City of Alamo, Texas and are called the Variable
Rainfall Intensity Method (VRIM) and the Modified Rational Method (MRM).
Both the VRIM and MRM are attempts to produce workable models of desired storm
water run off patterns. These patterns, called hydrographs, are graphical
representations of the changing flow rate of storm water run-off past a
specified point over a prescribed period of time. The VRIM (See Graph No. GR-2,
Figure I-iii) more closely resembles actual storm run-off hydrographs in shape
and in total volume, due to its curvilinear shape and its run-off distribution
with respect to time. Its peak flow rate is the same as that calculated by the
basic Rational Method. The VRIM can be used for watersheds up to several
hundred acres. However, it involves many more calculations (with corresponding
time and effort) than the MRM, if not done with the aid of pre- programmed
routines on a computer or programmable calculator. By contrast, the MRM (See
Graph No. GR-2, Figure I-iv) is a series of straight-line hydrographs that are
crude approximations of run-off hydrographs for storms of various durations.
      1.   Calculation of Detention Outlet Size. Detention pond discharges into
an existing storm sewer line or existing ditch. The outlet size should be
calculated to release the pre-developed rate (9.5 agricultural) only.
         a.   Maximum pool elevation at or below the design hydraulic grade
line of the outfall. The discharge line shall be sized for the design storm
within the outfall pipe flowing full.
         b.   Maximum pool elevation at or above the hydraulic grade line at
the outfall. Provide a reducer or restrictor to be constructed inside the
discharge line. The discharge line shall be sized for the design storm with the
outfall pipe flowing full.
         c.   Reducer or restrictor pipes shall be sized as follows:
            (1)   Use the orifice equation to calculate the required orifice
size:
            Q = CA2g   h
            D = Q1/2 /(2.25h 1/4)
            Where:   Q = Outflow discharge (pre-developed rate)
                  C = 0.8 (Coefficient of discharge)
                  A = Orifice area (SF)
                  G = Gravity (32.2 ft/sec.2)
                  H = Head (ft.)
                  D = Orifice diameter (ft.)
            (2)   Restrictor shall be either of the calculated required
diameter or of the equivalent cross-sectional area. The orifice diameter D
shall be a minimum of 0.5 feet.
For each storm duration, the peak flow rate is calculated by the basic Rational
Method; except that the intensity used is that for the time of storm duration
rather than the time of concentration of the watershed.
The rising limb is a straight line from zero to the peak flow rate extending
over a period of the “proposed” or “post-development” time of concentration, A
straight line then continues across the graph at the peak flow rate until the
storm duration time has been reached. The falling limb is a mirror image of the
rising limb. This type of hydrograph is easy to produce, both mathematically
and graphically, and is usually applicable for watersheds up to 25 acres.
The City of Alamo, Texas has accepted various methods for determining detention
pond storage volumes. All of the methods establish a “lower limit” line to
approximate the assumed release rate of water from the pond. This line is
applied to the inflow hydrograph for each storm duration. The enclosed area
below the inflow hydrograph line and above release rate line constitutes the
required storage volume for that particular storm. A range of storm duration
that yields the absolute peak for all possible storm durations is used. This
peak storage volume is the value that determines the final storage requirement.
The method currently endorsed by the City of Alamo, Texas assumes a horizontal
release rate line that extends across the entire graph and is equal to the
maximum allowable release rate called “Peak Shaving”. The outflow structure
must take into account the early outflows in the storm and keep them at or
below the corresponding values in the “existing” or “predevelopment”
hydrograph.
Storm water run-off from a particular watershed that does not flow through the
detention pond yet must be addressed in the design is called “by-pass” flows.
The maximum allowable release rate must be reduced by the peak flows generated
from areas that bypass the pond. The peak flows shall be calculated from the
basic Rational Formula, using the time of concentration for the given area and
the corresponding rainfall intensity for the specific return period of the
storm. When multiple-pond systems are involved, the “Peak Shaving” method is
not considered to be applicable for cascaded ponds, where the outflow from one
pond flows into another pond. Cascaded ponds will require the application of a
dynamic model. Multiple-pond systems that do not have cascaded ponds may be
designed by this method, in which each subarea to a given pond is treated as a
separated design.
For detention/retention areas, side slopes shall be designed at a minimum 3:1
(H:V) slope, or as proposed by the project engineer and approved by the City
Engineer and/or consulting engineer.
   J.   Required Submittals. The following submittals shall be required as part
of the drainage and engineering report on all improvements:
      1.   Preliminary Approval Phase. In order to properly review and consider
projects and grant preliminary approval, the following items must be addressed
and shown on the submittal.
         a.   A reproduction of that portion of the latest approved City’s
Master Drainage Plan (state/county/city), if available, showing the
relationship of the area to be improved and the proposed improvements to the
City’s outfall system.
         b.   Calculations for time of concentration; Q (peak allowable run-off
or peak existing run-off prior to development); storage required, and pipe,
channel or ditch sizing,
         c.   A site drainage plan at 1" = 50' showing:
            (1)   Lot grading with minimum finished floor elevations;
            (2)   Street flow with preliminary elevations, grades, and flow;
            (3)   Proposed drainage improvements;
            (4)   Proposed method of detention;
            (5)   Existing and proposed one foot (or 0.50 foot if required)
contour intervals to 150 feet outside of the subdivision boundaries, referenced
to the latest National Geodetic Vertical Datum and to the City Benchmark Datum;
            (6)   Drainage sub-areas;
            (7)   100-year flood elevation and direction of overflow.
         d.   Certified statement by design Engineer stating FEMA’s designated
flood zone, anticipated high water elevation in a 100-year flood, and statement
describing drainage pattern in the subdivision and the adequacy of the proposed
plan for drainage. When required, a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR)
shall be submitted to FEMA, prior to preliminary approval.
Any substantial changes to the plat after approval has been granted by both the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of Commissioners shall require
resubmittal to the P&Z and Board of Commissioners for re-consideration and
formal action.
      2.   Construction Phase. After preliminary approval has been granted by
the City of Alamo’s Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of
Commissioners, the City will accept construction plans and specification for
review, The submittal should include the following:
         a.   Seven (7) complete sets of plans, profiles, and specifications
for all drainage improvements showing:
            (1)   Street widths, grades, existing and proposed profiles;
            (2)   Drainage pipes, ditches, channels with grades and existing
and proposed profiles;
            (3)   Cross-sections;
            (4)   Complete construction details;
            (5)   All plans signed and sealed by a Registered Professional
Engineer;
            (6)   TCEQ rules and regulations, as it relates to storm water
management shall be followed. A copy of the Notice of Intent (NOI) shall be
submitted prior to approval. The approved copy shall be forwarded as soon as
possible;
            (7)   An approved CLOMR shall be presented to the City of Alamo,
Texas prior to Final approval.
         b.   Cost Estimate for all drainage improvements signed and sealed by
a Registered Professional Engineer and approved by the City Engineer.
         c.   After the City reviews the submittals, a meeting with the project
engineer will be conducted to go over any comments. The engineer is responsible
for making any adjustments/corrections to the plans and resubmitting for
approval.
         d.   Upon approval of the construction documents, the City will
schedule a Pre-Construction Conference (PCC). The PCC will be held at the City
Hall or a designated location with the Developer, the Project Engineer, the
Contractor and the City of Alamo (Public Works Department, Utilities
Department, Fire Department, Planning Department, and the City’s consulting
engineer), and all other parties as designated by the City. The seven (7) sets
of plans submitted shall be reviewed and, if in order and upon approval, will
be signed by the responsible parties. The signed plans shall be the “Official
Construction Plans” for the project and will be distributed among the
attendees.
         e.   A Notice to Proceed (NTP) horn the City of Alamo shall be issued,
delineating the proposed project and its required conditions; once payment of
the PCC fee and any required geo-tech lab escrow fees are made.
         f.   Any changes, revisions and/or deletions from the approved sets of
plans including change orders, shall be submitted to the City of Alamo through
the City’s Planning Department (3 copies) for consideration. The Public Works
Department and/or the City’s engineering staff shall consider the submittal and
issue the response thru the Planning Department. The City is not obligated to
accept any improvements deviating from the approved construction plans or
approved changes.
         g.   Three (3) certified copies of the as-built (copies on Mylar and
on AutoCAD 2004 Compact Disk format), shall be furnished to the City upon
completion of the improvements and verification by the project engineer; and
shall reflect his/her engineer’s seal and signature on said as-builts.
         h.   After construction is complete where new paved street systems
were accepted, should there be severe erosion predominantly onto the streets’
curb and gutter areas, the Developer and/or the General Contractor shall
continue to be responsible to remove said erosion of soil from the street
system for a reasonable period post-construction. The removal of eroded soil
from the curb and gutters is necessary to minimize/avoid silt infiltration into
the storm system.
      3.   Final Approval Phase. Final approval from the P&Z and Board of
Commissioners is subject to review and approval by the Public Works Department.
The following is required before final approval is granted.
         a.   Finalized versions of all the required submittals in the
Preliminary Approval Phase.
         b.   Approved construction plans are required for final approval.
         c.   An approved CLOMR shall be presented to the City prior to final
approval.
The City of Alamo, Texas, its Board of Commissioners are ultimately responsible
for final subdivision plat approval. A subdivision plat will not be forwarded
to the Board of Commissioners for consideration until all the requirements have
been met.
   K.   Approved Materials.
      1.   Reinforced Concrete Pipe.
Comply with requirements of ASTM C 76, Class III, minimum installed with
flexible plastic (Bitumen) at all joints, tongue and groove joints.
Gaskets shall comply with AASHTO M-198 751, Type B, and shall be installed in
strict accordance with pipe manufacturer’s recommendations.
      2.   Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) Pipe. PVC pipe is only permitted when
specifically approved by the City Engineer. Pipe and fittings shall comply with
ASTM D 3034, rated SDR 26. Pipe shall be continually marked with manufacturer’s
name, a pipe size, cell classification, SDR rating, and ASTM D 3034
classification. Pipe joints shall be integrally molded bell ends in accordance
with ASTM D 3034, Table 2, with factory supplied elastomeric gaskets and
lubricant. PVC pipe is not permitted under streets.
      3.   Manholes.
         a.   Cast-in-place and pre-cast Manholes.
            (1)   Cast-in-place Manholes shall be constructed of 3000 PSI
concrete.
            (2)   In accordance with ASTM C-478.
      4.   Inlets.
         a.   Type A.
         b.   Type C-C.
         c.   Type C.
         d.   Type F.
      5.   Cast Iron Frames, Covets, and Grates.
         a.   As approved by specifications,
      6.   Specification for Construction and Utility Castings.
Manhole Frames and Covers/Grates
Catch Basin Inlets
Curb and Gutter Inlets
Ditch and Median Inlets
Trench Drainage Inlets
         a.   Applicable Codes
            (1)   Whenever reference is made to the furnishing of materials or
testing thereof to conform to the Standards of any technical society,
organization or body, it shall be constructed to mean the latest standard, code
specification or tentative specifications adopted and published at the time of
advertisement for bids, even though reference has been made to an earlier
standard. Such standards are made a part hereof to the extent, which is
indicated or intended.
            (2)   The following are names and abbreviations of such groups:
AASHTO     for American Association of State Highway and Transportation
           Officials
ACI        for American Concrete Institute
AlSC       for American Institute of Steel Construction
ANSI       for American National Standards Institute
API        for American Pipe Institute
ASA        for American Standards Association
ASCE       for American Society of Civil Engineers
ASTM       for American Society of Testing Materials
AWSC       for American Welding Society Code
AWWA       for American Water Works Association
CIPRA      for Cast Iron Pipe Research Association
Fed. Spec. for Federal Specification
NCPI       for National Clay Pipe Institute
SDHPT      for State Department of Highways and Public Transportation
UL Inc.    for Underwriter’s Laboratories, Inc.
UPPA       for Uni-Bell Plastic Pipe Association
 
            (3)   Where no reference is made to a code, standard or
specification, the Standard Specification of ASTM, AWWA, or ANSI, as
appropriate, shall govern.
            (4)   If the specifications and drawings show requirements that are
in excess of codes and ordinances, then the specifications and drawings shall
be followed. Should there be any conflicts between the specifications and
drawings, and the codes and ordinances having jurisdiction, the Bidder shall
report these in his bid.
         b.   General: This specification is applicable for gray and ductile
iron castings or frames, gates, rings, and covers that are for use by the City
of Alamo, Texas, Castings shall be manufactured by East Jordan Iron Works, or
other approved USA manufacturer. All manufacturers shall be approved suppliers
to the City of Alamo. The approved manufacturer shall be able to demonstrate
that there is an acceptable quality control program at the producing foundry,
prior to supplying castings.
         c.   Materials: Gray iron castings shall be manufactured from iron
conforming to ASTM A48 Class 35B, as noted in section 3.1 of AASHTO M306.
Ductile iron castings shall be manufactured from iron conforming to ASTM A536.
The iron material used in products provided shall have a minimum recycled
material content of 75%. The recycled materials shall consist of post-consumer
material.
         d.   Manufacture: Castings shall be of uniform qualify, free from sand
holes, gas holes, shrinkage, cracks and other surface defects, Castings shall
be reasonably smooth and well cleaned by shot blasting. For traffic service
castings, bearing surfaces between manhole rings and covers or grates and
frames shall be ground or machined with such precision to prevent rocking. As-
cast dimensions may vary within accepted foundry tolerances as outlined in the
Iron Castings Handbook published by the American Foundry men’s Society, Inc.
nominally, casting dimensional tolerances shall be +/- 1/16" per foot. All
published casting weights are average and approximate values and shall vary +/
- 5%. Castings shall be furnished painted or unpainted as specified by the
purchaser.
         e.   Workmanship: Castings shall show careful finished workmanship in
all particulars, Castings which have been damaged either during manufacture or
shipping may be rejected. Defects which would constitute poor workmanship
include pinholes, shrink, crack, dirt, scab and slag.
         f.   Sampling: Random checks on the castings may be conducted by the
purchaser. These random checks shall be conducted in accordance with the AASHTO
M306 Section 6.0 guidelines.
         g.   Proof Load Testing: Traffic service castings shall have a first
article proof load test conducted and the results of that proof load shall be
made available to the purchaser upon request. The proof load shall be conducted
in accordance with the method and procedure that is outlined in AASHTO M306
Section 7.0, proof load testing. The casting shall be tested on a suitable and
calibrated load testing machine and the casting shall hold a 40,000-pound proof
load for one minute without experiencing any cracks or detrimental permanent
deformation.
         h.   Inspection: Inspections shall be in accordance with 9.1.1 (refer
to #7 above- Proof Load Testing) or 9.1.2 of AASHTO M306. Results of these
tests shall be furnished to the purchaser upon request, The heat or production
date and product numbers, as cast on the casting shall be the basis of trace-
ability and recording of the tests.
         i.   Certification: A foundry (a workshop or factory for casting
metal) certification shall be furnished to the purchaser stating that samples
representing each lot have been tested, inspected, and arc in accordance with
this specification.
         j.   Marking: Each casting shall be identifiable and show, at a
minimum, the following: name of the producing foundry, country of manufacture
(such as “Made in USA”), ASTM material designation, recycle symbol, individual
part number, cast or heat date. Castings shall also include all lettering as
shown on the specification drawings.
         k.   Records: Test results for each lot of castings shall be
maintained by the foundry for a minimum of seven years and shall be available
to the purchaser upon request.
   L.   Warranty:
Test results for each lot of castings shall be maintained by the foundry for a
minimum of seven years and shall be available to the purchaser upon request.
All materials, products, and workmanship shall be guaranteed for a period of 1-
year from the written Date of Acceptance by the City and the date approved As-
built drawings are submitted.
   M.   Standard Details. The following list of Standard Details (see Appendix
A) show the adopted standards required by the City:
      1.   Standard Detail DR-1 Type “A” Inlet
      2.   RESERVED
      3.   Standard Detail DR-3 Type “F” Inlet
      4.   Standard Detail DR-4 Type “C” Inlet
      5.   Standard Detail DR-5 Type “C-C” Inlet
      6.   Standard Detail DR-6 Pre-Cast Storm Concrete Manhole
      7.   RESERVED
      8.   Standard Detail DR-8 Trench Bedding Circular Pipe Storm Detail
      9.   Standard Detail DR-9 Valley Gutter Detail
      10.   RESERVED
      11.   RESERVED
      12.   Standard Detail DR-12 Concrete Safety End Treatment Detail
      13.   Standard Detail DR-13 Storm Sewer Manhole Cover Details
      14.   RESERVED
      15.   RESERVED
      16.   Standard Detail DR-16 Pilot Channel Detail
      17.   Discharge Structure Detail
(RESERVED slots may be filled-in as subsequent storm templates are adopted)
   N.   Supplemental Requirements.
      1.   Property Owners or Homeowner’s Associations.
         a.   When a Subdivision contains either common private property or
other private improvements which are not intended to be dedicated to the City
of Alamo for public use, such as private streets, detention ponds, a private
recreation facility or open space, or other private amenities, a Homeowner’s
Association shall be established for the purpose of maintaining the areas. The
Homeowner’s Association shall be created consistent with State and other
appropriate laws. Copies of the Homeowner’s Association Agreement must be
submitted with the Preliminary Plat Application and reviewed by the City
Attorney and/or other city officials.
         b.   In the case of an individual one-lot subdivision, the Property
Owner shall dedicate, by plat, a swale/detention pond in the form of a private
easement. Single lot subdivisions do not require submission of a Homeowner’s
Agreement or Conditions, Covenants and Restrictions (“CCRs”).
         c.   For Homeowner’s Associations, the Conditions, Covenants and
Restrictions (CCRs) and the Homeowner’s Association documents, such as the
Articles of Incorporation and Homeowners Association by-laws, shall be
submitted to the City for review and possible amendment, along with the
Preliminary Plat Application, and shall be recorded, with the Final Subdivision
Plat, in the deed records of Hidalgo County in order to ensure that there is an
entity in place for long-term maintenance of these improvements. No plat shall
be recorded until the CCRs, as may need to be amended, are satisfactory to the
City of Alamo assuring perpetual maintenance of any and all private drainage
improvements.
         d.   The City, its agents, and employees, shall have the right of
immediate access to the common elements, private property and private
improvements, at all times, if necessary, for the preservation of public
health, safety and welfare. Should the Property Owners or Homeowner’s
Association fail to maintain the common elements to City specifications for an
unreasonable time, the City may elect to activate ordained due process
protocols to remedy the nuisance or maintenance matter: and thereafter levy any
assessment on the Property Owners and/or Homeowner’s Association to cover the
cost of maintenance or repairs plus any administrative costs incurred.
         e.   The Property Owners or Homeowner’s Association must register a
contact person with the Community Planning and Development Department. The City
shall be notified within ten (10) working days of any change in said contact
person. Such contact person must be authorized to receive and distribute
information to the Property Owner or Board of Directors of the Homeowner’s
Association.
         f.   If for any reason there is any change or dissolution of the
Homeowner’s Association, notice shall be given to the City’s Community Planning
and Development Department within ten (10) days of the date of any change or
dissolution. The City shall also be provided with an updated CCRs and
Homeowner’s Association documentation within the ten (10) days. It is clearly
understood that all property owners of the subdivision shall be owners of
common properties and, as such, are jointly and legally responsible for said
properties’ maintenance costs and upkeep to retain said private improvements in
a functional condition.
         g.   Should there be private drainage improvements reflected on a
subdivision plat as common areas wherein such induce perpetual private
maintenance, plat notes indicating this shall be required: once the plat is
recorded, this is a legal instrument which shall further indicate the legal and
high duty to perpetually maintain such common areas.
      2.   Drainage Design.
         a.   The difference between the 50-year storm post development runoff
and the 10-year pre-development runoff shall be detained on-site. Engineered
detention calculations shall be submitted to the City Engineer and/or City’s
consulting engineer.
         b.   On-site detention methods shall include ponds or engineered sub-
surface systems. Alternative methods of detention shall be reviewed and
approved by the City Engineer and/or city’s consulting engineer.
         c.   Where the outfall facilities are located more than 300 feet
outside the development boundaries, an alternative method of drainage and
conveyance may be submitted to the City Engineering staff for approval. Any on-
site retention areas must contain the 50-year storm runoff volume for the
development and dissipate it into the subsurface within a 48-hour period. A
signed geotechnical report, in accordance with the requirements of the
detention/retention ponds established in the subsequent sections, must be
submitted by a bona fide geo tech firm.
      3.   Detention Design.
         a.   Design Considerations.
            (1)   On-site detention facilities shall be situated in privately
dedicated areas. Existing drainage facilities (i.e., City of Alamo’s Drainage
Ditches, Regional Stormwater Detention Facilities, etc.) shall not take the
place of dedicated facilities unless previously included in the City of Alamo’s
Master Drainage Plan if available. Detention areas may be incorporated into
landscape and greenbelt areas if vegetation does not adversely affect required
design volumes or impede hydraulic efficiency.
            (2)   Storm water runoff shall be conveyed to detention areas via
storm sewer networks, flumes and curb cuts within dedicated right-of-way or
flowage easements.
            (3)   Side slopes shall not exceed 3:1 (H: V). In areas with a
potential for vehicular or pedestrian activity, detention pond depths exceeding
3.0 feet shall require a safety buffer in the form of benching or fencing
around the perimeter of the pond, (NOTE: cross reference Sec.
11-3-16 Fence Buffering, if needed). The bottom of the basin shall be graded to
drain towards the outlet structure. A pilot channel shall be placed along the
flow line from inlet to outlet to ensure positive flow. Trash racks shall be
incorporated into outlet structure design. A minimum of 10 feet shall be
maintained around the perimeter of the entire pond to allow for routine
maintenance and/or repair; however, should the ponds’ depth be substantial, a
wider perimeter maintenance road shall be required by the City of Alamo.
            (4)   Detention area design shall consider proximity and elevation
of adjacent building structures. Bank areas shall be graded to drain away from
such structures. A minimum of 1-foot of freeboard above design pool elevation
shall be required. The design of detention areas shall incorporate diversion of
overflows into street right-of-way or drainage/flowage easements in the event
of an extreme event or outlet structure failure.
            (5)   Detention pond areas shall be vegetated to prevent erosion
and deposition of silts. Common Bermuda, Winter Rye or a combination of the
grasses may be used. Vegetated areas shall include provisions for irrigation
systems. Ultimately, Landscaping regulations involving landscaping improvements
to drainage ponds, inclusive of Section 9-6-10 (A)(9), shall be complied with.
      4.   Detention Pond Details.
         a.   Refer to details DR-10 thru DR-16A
      5.   Detention Pond Operation and Maintenance.
         a.   Detention ponds shall be maintained by foe owner(s) of record for
commercial, institutional, and multi-family developments. For single-family
residential developments, Property Owners and/or Homeowner’s Association shall
maintain the detention pond(s).
            (1)   The Property Owners or the Homeowner’s Association, or then’
designated representative, shall be responsible for routinely inspecting ponds
to ensure that all components of the pond are maintained and are in good
working condition.
            (2)   Failure to adequately maintain the detention pond(s) in
reasonable order and condition, constitutes a violation of this section. The
City is hereby authorized to give notice, by personal service or by United
States mail, to the Homeowners Association, Property Owners or occupant, as the
case may be, of any violation, directing foe Homeowners Association or Property
Owners to remedy the same within ten (10) calendar days. The Property Owners or
the Homeowners Association will also be subject to a fine of $2,000.00 per day
if not remedied by the tenth (10th) day of such notice. Each day of violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
      6.   Parkland Dedication.
         a.   Land dedicated to the City under this section may be utilized for
park and recreation uses, contingent on approval of design requirements, size,
flood zone designation, existing parks in general vicinity, advisory action by
the Planning & Zoning Commission and the Parks and Recreation Board: and
ultimately the Board of Commissioners. The final decision on whether to accept
any park land, inclusive of a dual used tract (parks and drainage pond), shall
rest with the Board of Commissioners. There is no obligation by the City to
accept any park land by any developer - - the ultimate discretion shall rest
with the City on this matter and there shall be no appeal.
   O.   Penalty Clause. Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any
of the provisions of the Drainage Policy adopted herein shall be fined not more
than Two Thousand Dollars ($2,000.00) for each offense. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 02-
01-22, 1-4-2022; amd. Ord. 65-09-22, 9-6-2022; Ord. 70-10-22, 10-4-2022)
11-3-12: LOTS:
All lots shall abut on an approved street for a distance of at least fifty feet
(50') and shall provide safe and convenient pedestrian and vehicular access
from the lot onto the street. On cul-de-sacs the fifty foot (50') frontage will
be measured at the minimum setback line. Such setback line shall be no less
than twenty five feet (25') from the front property line to the face of the
building and shall be required on all lots. Lots on cul- de-sacs shall also
have a thirty five foot (35') (minimum) frontage at the property line. Lots
shall have a minimum area of six thousand two hundred fifty (6,250) square feet
and a minimum depth of not less than one hundred feet (100'). (Ord. 16-07-17,
7-18-2017)
11-3-13: BLOCKS:
Block lengths shall not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') nor shall they be
less than five hundred feet (500'). (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
11-3-14: CROSSWALK WAYS:
   A.   Crosswalk rights-of-way, six feet (6') in width, shall be dedicated
where deemed necessary by the Governing Body to provide pedestrian circulation
or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers and transportation to other
community facilities or to provide pedestrian circulation within the
subdivision.
   B.   Crosswalk ways shall be provided with a concrete sidewalk at least four
feet (4') wide. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
11-3-15: PARKS AND OTHER PUBLIC USE:
   A.   Requirements For Payments Toward Park Improvements:
      1.   Community parks are those parks providing for a variety of outdoor
recreational opportunities and within convenient distances from a majority of
the residences to be served thereby. The ultimate residential property owners
who, by reason of the proximity of their property to such parks, shall be the
primary beneficiaries of such facilities. Therefore, the following general
requirements shall apply:
         a.   Whenever a final plat is filed for approval in accordance with
the zoning and subdivision regulations of the City, the developer of such plat
shall pay an amount equal to five hundred dollars ($500.00) per proposed
residential lot or housing unit equivalent (for apartments) to the City of
Alamo to be used toward improvements at existing parks or the acquisition of
property for new parks.
         b.   The final plat of the subdivision shall not be processed unless
the developer has fully complied with this chapter.
         c.   Funding received from a subdivision developer shall be used
toward park improvements or for the acquisition of property for a park within
the area from which funding was received.
         d.   All funds collected must be expended by the City within ten (10)
years from the date received for park improvements or acquisition of property
for park development. Such funds shall be considered to be spent on a first in,
first out basis. If not so expended, the property owners of the subdivision(s)
on the last day of such period, shall be entitled to a refund of such sum after
the owners submit the request in writing to the City Manager and after giving
the City a six (6) month opportunity to spend the funds towards park
improvements or towards the purchase of property for a park anywhere within the
City of Alamo.
         e.   The owners of such property must request such refund within one
(1) year or the entitlement of such right shall be forever barred.
         f.   These requirements shall apply to residential subdivisions within
the City limits or residential subdivisions outside the City limits that will
be annexed into the City limits within five (5) years or that will benefit from
or use the City’s parks.
      g.   On NON-residentially zoned subdivision plats or non-residentially
zoned lots where (residential) park fees were not received by the City of Alamo
prior to said plats’ recording, the City’s prevailing park fee per dwelling
unit shall be required to be paid during the building permit process for
residential units built on such properties as either a permitted or conditional
use; or if said non-res lots are later residentially rezoned or if an existing
Lot is ‘approved’ by the City to increase the number of residential units not
previously factored-in during the original subdivision process. The above
circumstances shall be imposed only if they are evident on plats that were
recorded after the original ‘approval date’ of the City’s park dedication code
(being 6-5-1990). On future non-residential plats, the following plat note may
be required: Should any non-residentially zoned lot on this plat be later used
for a residential effect, it shall comply with the terms of Section
11-3-15 (A)(1)(g) of Alamo’s Code of Ordinances.” Regardless if the plat note
is included or not on the plat, this will not preclude, prevent, or impede the
city from enforcing the merits of this provision. Furthermore, on any
   B.   Special Conditions:
      1.   Play areas within an apartment complex shall not be credited toward
public land use as a park unless each is in excess of one (1) acre in area, is
approved by and dedicated to the City, and is made open for public use.
      2.   Drainage easements may be classified as part of a park if the
channel is constructed in accordance with City engineering standards and there
is park land not less than two hundred feet (200') in width adjacent to and
outside of the channel.
      3.   Each park must be located adjacent to a public street.
   C.   Reserved Land: Land shown as reserved on the Comprehensive General Plan
for a major recreational center, reservation, school site, park or other public
use shall be reserved for a period of one (1) year from the date the plat is
filed for record for purchase by the interested governmental authority at land
appraisal value at the time of purchase.
(Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017; amd. Ord. 36-06-22, 6- 7-2022; Ord. 66-11-23, 11-6-
2023)
11-3-16: FENCE BUFFERING:
   A.   In all subdivisions, a minimum six foot (6') fence buffer shall be
required along any natural and/or manmade hazard such as an open canal, open
ditch, caliche pit, detention pond, and holding pond which, in the opinion of
the City, is necessary for the lot's occupants to be protected from. Such
installed buffer fences shall be a minimum of chain link fence. Six foot (6')
opaque fence buffering may also be required along collector streets, minor
arterial streets, and major arterial streets as defined by the Hidalgo County
Thoroughfare Plan. Such installed buffer fences shall be a minimum of cedar
fence construction. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
11-3-17: REIMBURSEMENT POLICY:
In cases where the developer of a subdivision extends utilities from an off-
site location into their subdivision, the City of Alamo may enter into a
reimbursement contract with a developer.
The developer who seeks the extension of water, sewer, drainage, or streets
from an off-site location to their property must advance the cost of
construction thereof. Any future developments that occur within seven (7) years
of the approval of the construction who wish to utilize the improvements
installed by the original developer must participate in the original cost by
reimbursing either the developer within seven (7) years of the completion of
those lines, or the City of Alamo after that date to offset book keeping costs
and maintenance of the improvements by the City.
After entering into a reimbursement contract with the developer, the City will
be the fiscal agent regarding the pro-rata shares submitted by future
developers wishing to utilize the improvements installed by the original
developer. The City shall reimburse to the developer, according to a schedule
breakdown of pro-rata shares per parcel of land for the improvements, which
shall be submitted by the project engineer for approval by the City. Such
breakdown costs are to be made a part of the reimbursement contract. (Ord. 16-
07-17, 7-18-2017)
11-3-18: CONDITIONS OF PLAT APPROVAL:
The City Engineer may attach conditions, including, but not limited to, the
following to the approval of plats for areas subject to development problems in
flood hazard areas:
   A.   Construction and modifications of sewage, water supply and drainage
facilities to meet the standards of this title and to promote the health,
safety and general welfare.
   B.   Requirements for construction or channel modifications, dikes, levees
and other protective measures.
   C.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restrictions may
include floodproofing of intended uses, subject to the individual approval of
the City Engineer and Governing Body at the time such uses are constructed,
through:
      1.   Anchorage to resist flotation and lateral movement.
      2.   Installation of watertight doors, bulkheads and shutters or similar
methods of construction.
      3.   Reinforcement of walls to resist water pressures.
      4.   Use of paints, membranes or mortars to reduce seepage of water
through walls.
      5.   Addition of mass or weight to structures to resist flotation.
      6.   Installation of pumps to lower water levels in structures.
      7.   Construction of water supply and water treatment systems so as to
prevent the entrance of floodwaters.
      8.   Pumping facilities or comparable practices for subsurface drainage
systems for buildings to relieve external foundation wall and basement flood
pressures.
      9.   Construction to resist rupture or collapse caused by water pressure
or floating debris.
      10.   Installation of valves or controls on sanitary and storm drains,
which will permit the drains to be closed to prevent backup of sewage and storm
waters into the buildings or structures. Gravity draining of basements may be
eliminated by mechanical devices.
      11.   Location of all electrical equipment, circuits and installed
electrical appliances in a manner which will assure they are not subject to
flooding and to provide protection from inundation by the regulatory flood.
      12.   Location of any structural storage facilities for chemicals,
explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids or other toxic materials which
could be hazardous to public health, safety and welfare in a manner which will
assure that the facilities are situated at elevations above the height
associated with the regulatory protection elevation or are adequately
floodproofed to prevent flotation of storage containers or damage to storage
containers which could result in the escape of toxic materials into
floodwaters. (Ord. 16-07-17, 7-18-2017)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-4-1: Board Of Commissioners
11-4-2: Variances
11-4-3: Withholding Of City Improvements
11-4-4: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
11-4-5: Violation And Penalties
11-4-6: Certificates Of Compliance With Plat Requirements
11-4-1: BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS:
The board of commissioners is hereby authorized to promulgate, or to have
promulgated, and to file for public record and use rules, regulations,
standards and specifications for the construction, installation, design,
location and arrangement of streets, curbs, streetlights, street signs, alleys,
utility layouts, utility easements, gates for utility easements, sidewalks,
water supply and water distribution systems, fire hydrants, sewage disposal
systems, septic tanks, water wells, monuments, criteria for drainage easement
requirements, drainage facilities and crosswalk ways. Such rules, regulations,
standards and specifications may be amended, from time to time; provided, that
an amendment must be appropriately approved by the governing body. No such
rules, regulations, standards and specifications shall conflict with this title
or any other ordinance of the city. All such improvements shall be constructed,
installed, designed, located and arranged by the subdivider in accordance with
such rules, regulations, standards and specifications. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
11-4-2: VARIANCES:
   A.   The planning and zoning commission may recommend and the governing body
may authorize a variance from this title when, in its opinion, undue hardship
will result from requiring strict compliance. In granting a variance, the
governing body shall prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary or
desirable in the public interest. In making the findings required herein, the
planning and zoning commission and governing body shall take into account the
nature of the proposed use of the land involved, existing uses of land in the
vicinity, the number of persons who will reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of such variance upon traffic conditions
and upon the public health, safety, convenience and welfare in the vicinity.
   B.   No variance shall be granted unless it is found that:
      1.   There are special circumstances or conditions, including unique
topography, affecting the land involved such that the strict application of the
provisions of this title would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of
his land;
      2.   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of the
legal property rights of its owner;
      3.   The purposes and intent of this title are observed;
      4.   There is no increase in the flood hazard or flood damage potential;
      5.   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare or injurious to the legal rights to other property in
the area; and
      6.   The granting of the variance will not prevent the orderly
subdivision of other land in the area in accordance with the provisions of this
title. Such findings, together with the specific facts upon which such findings
are based shall be incorporated into the official minutes of the governing
body’s meeting at which such variance is granted. A variance may be granted
only when in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this title so that
the public health, safety and welfare may be secured and substantial justice
done. Financial hardship to the subdivider, standing alone, shall not
constitute undue hardship.
   C.   There shall be a fee paid in order for the City of Alamo to consider
processing variances. The fee shall be determined by the Planning Department
dependent on the estimated time for staff to research and prepare/present the
resulting write-up/summary. Should there be more than one variance requested,
then the fee shall be incurred for each variance being sought. No variance
shall be considered unless the correlating fees are paid. The variance
processing fee shall be as follows:
 
Type A $50  incidental need to vary; minimal research, etc.
Type B $150 minor/moderate research, etc.
Type C $250 intense research/seek precedence-records, etc.
          Multi-page research summary report, etc.
 
(Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990; amd. Ord. 118-8-2024, 8-20-2024)
11-4-3: WITHHOLDING OF CITY IMPROVEMENTS:
The city will withhold all city improvements of whatsoever nature, including
the maintenance of streets and the furnishing of water and sewer services, the
platting of which has not been approved by the city or in which the
construction of required improvements does not comply with these regulations.
(Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
11-4-4: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
It is not intended by this title to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this title imposes
greater restrictions, the provision of this title shall prevail. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this title are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only. (Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990)
11-4-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Within City Limits: Any person violating any provision of this title,
within the corporate limits of the city, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that such violation continues shall be a separate
offense. Prosecution or conviction under this provision shall never be a bar to
any other remedy or relief for violations of this title.
   B.   Outside City Limits: Any person violating any provision of this title,
outside the corporate limits of the city, but within the city's
extraterritorial jurisdiction, shall not be considered as committing a
misdemeanor nor shall any fine provided in subsection A of this section be
applicable; however, the city shall have the right to institute an action in
the district court to enjoin the violation of any provision of this title.
(Ord. 90-02, 6-5-1990; amd. 1994 Code)
11-4-6: CERTIFICATES OF COMPLIANCE WITH PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The board of commissioners hereby delegates the ability to perform any
of the responsibilities under the provisions of section 212, Local Government
Code, to the director of planning for the city of Alamo. Upon written request
of the owner of land in the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Alamo,
the director of planning shall make the determination regarding whether the
owner's land is subdivided in accordance with the provisions of this title or
exempt them therefrom or if a plat has been prepared and whether it has been
reviewed and approved by the city of Alamo.
The director of planning is authorized to establish forms of application and
require any information necessary to make a determination as authorized under
the provisions of section 212. The director of planning shall make a
determination within the time limits as required by law and shall respond
within the time limits as required by law.
   B.   Upon the issuing of any determination relating to any application for
any subdivision compliance certificate, the director of planning shall provide
a copy of such determination to the city manager. The city manager shall
provide, for informational purposes only, a copy of such determination to the
mayor and city commission for their information. Any decision of the director
of planning upon the issuance or denial of a certificate is appealable to the
city commission at its next regularly scheduled city commission meeting for
which notice may be given in accordance with the law.
   C.   It is hereby imposed on each application for certificate of compliance
a fee of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for any certificate which is located in
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city of Alamo. Such fee shall be
payable along with the application for the certificate of compliance. (Ord. 33-
11-01, 11-20-2001)
TITLE 12
FLOOD CONTROL REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
SECTION:
12-1-1: Authorization
12-1-2: Findings of Fact
12-1-3: Purpose
12-1-4: Definitions
12-1-5: Application of Provisions
12-1-6: Interpretation of Provisions
12-1-7: Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
12-1-8: Special Flood Hazard Areas Established
12-1-9: Flood Hazard Reduction Standards
12-1-10: Development Permit Required
12-1-11: Permit Procedures
12-1-12: Compliance with Provisions
12-1-13: Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
12-1-14: Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
12-1-15: Variance Procedures
12-1-16: Administration and Enforcement
12-1-1: AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the State has, in Vernon's Texas Statutes, delegated the
responsibility to local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses 1 . (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
 
Notes
1 1. V.T.C.A., Water Code §16.311 et seq.
12-1-2: FINDINGS OF FACT:
   A.   The flood hazard areas of the City are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   B.   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in flood plains which cause an increase in flood heights and velocities and by
the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods and hazardous
to other lands because they are inadequately elevated, floodproofed or
otherwise protected from flood damage. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-3: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   A.   Protect human life and health;
   B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control projects;
   C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
flood plains;
   F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   G.   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-4: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Chapter shall
be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage and to give
this Chapter its most reasonable application.
   APPEAL: A request for a review of the Flood Plain Administrator's
interpretation of any provisions of this Chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING: A designated AO, AH or VO Zone on a community's
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent (1%) chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one foot (1') to three feet
(3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding
is predictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD: The land in the flood plain within a community
subject to a one percent (1%) or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
The area may be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM).
After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of
the FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30,
VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) chance of being equalled or
exceeded in any given year.
   CRITICAL FEATURE: An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT: Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   ELEVATED BUILDING: A nonbasement building a) built, in the case of a
building in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of
the elevated floor elevated above the ground level by means of pilings, columns
(posts and piers) or shear walls parallel to the floor of the water, and b)
adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the
building during a flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case
of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, D, "elevated building" also
includes a building otherwise meeting the definition of "elevated building",
even though the lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the
breakaway walls meet the standards of section 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION: For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the "start of construction" commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. "Existing
construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures".
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the area of special
flood hazard and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY: The official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The report contains flood profiles, water surface elevation
of the base flood, as well as the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map.
   FLOOD or FLOODING: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
   A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
   B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOOD PLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA: Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see definition of "flooding").
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM: Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas
within a community subject to a "special flood hazard" and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE: A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HABITABLE FLOOR: Any floor usable for the following purpose, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation or a combination thereof. A
floor used for storage purposes only is not a "habitable floor".
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE: The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   LEVEE: A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM: A flood protection system which consists of a levee or levees
and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are
constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable nonelevation design requirement of section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. For flood plain
management purposes the term "manufactured home" also includes park trailers,
travel trailers and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than
one hundred eighty (180) consecutive days. For insurance purposes, the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL: For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION: For flood plain management purposes, structures for which
the "start of construction" commenced on or after the effective date of a flood
plain management regulation adopted by a community.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION: For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348), this
term includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit
was issued; provided, the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
placement or other improvement was within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE: A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either, a) before the improvement or repair is
started, or b) if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred. For the purpose of this definition "substantial
improvement" is considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall,
ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences, whether or
not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term
does not, however, include either 1) any project for improvement of a structure
to comply with existing State or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions, or
2) any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
   VARIANCE: A grant of relief to a person from the requirements of this
Chapter when specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A
variance, therefore, permits construction or development in a manner otherwise
prohibited by this Chapter. (For full requirements, see section 60.6 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION: The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's flood plain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in sections 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10),
(d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
Regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION: The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the flood plains of coastal or riverine
areas. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-5: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This Chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the City. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-6: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
In the interpretation and application of this Chapter, all provisions shall be:
a) considered as minimum requirements; b) liberally construed in favor of the
governing body; and c) deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers
granted under State statutes. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-7: METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES:
In order to accomplish its purposes, this Chapter uses the following methods:
   A.   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities.
   B.   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction.
   C.   Control the alteration of natural flood plains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters.
   D.   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage.
   E.   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-8: SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS ESTABLISHED:
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood
Insurance Study for City of Alamo", dated September 25, 1979, with accompanying
Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and FBFM) and
any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part
of this Chapter. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-9: FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   General Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard the following
provisions are required for all new construction and substantial improvements:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be designed
(or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
      2.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      3.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      4.   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be
constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during conditions of flooding;
      5.   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
      6.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
      7.   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment
to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   B.   Specific Standards: In all areas of special flood hazard where base
flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in Section
12-1-3, subsection 12-1-9C4 or 12-1-16B8, the following provisions are
required:
      1.   Residential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement) elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Flood Plain Administrator that the standard of this subsection as
proposed in subsection 12-1-11A1 is satisfied.
      2.   Nonresidential Construction: New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood elevation or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications and plans for the construction and shall certify that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A record of such
certification, which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are floodproofed, shall be maintained by the
Flood Plain Administrator.
      3.   Enclosures: New construction and substantial improvements, with
fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding shall
be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters. Designs for meeting
this requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer
or architect or meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
         a.   A minimum of two (2) openings having a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
shall be provided.
         b.   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1')
above grade.
         c.   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided, that they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
      4.   Manufactured Homes:
         a.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A
shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage. For
the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable State and
local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
         b.   All manufactured homes shall be in compliance with subsection B1
of this Section.
         c.   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is at
or above the base flood elevation and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system in accordance with the provisions of subsection B4
of this Section.
   C.   Standards for Subdivision Proposals:
      1.   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall be consistent with Sections
12-1-2,
12-1-3 and
12-1-7 of this Chapter.
      2.   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including
manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet development permit
requirements of Sections
12-1-10 and
12-1-11 of this Chapter and the provisions of this Section
12-1-9.
      3.   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision
proposals and other proposed development including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions which is greater than fifty (50) lots or five (5) acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to Section
12-1-8 or subsection
12-1-16B8 of this Chapter.
      4.   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
      5.   All subdivision proposals including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate
flood damage.
   D.   Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones): Located within
the areas of special flood hazard established in Section
12-1-8 of this Chapter are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas
have special flood hazards associated with base flood depths of one foot (1')
to three feet (3') where a clearly defined channel does not exist and where the
path of flooding is unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following
provisions apply:
      1.   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
in the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified).
      2.   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
         a.   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated above the
highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number specified in feet
in the community's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified); or
         b.   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base flood level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
      3.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Flood Plain Administrator that the standards of this
Section, as proposed in subsection
12-1-11A1 are satisfied.
      4.   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-10: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT REQUIRED:
A development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the
provisions of this Title. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-11: PERMIT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Application for Permit: Application for a development permit shall be
presented to the Flood Plain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and
may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing
the location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations,
existing and proposed structures and the location of the foregoing in relation
to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following information is
required:
      1.   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures.
      2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed.
      3.   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of subsection 12-1-9B2 of this Chapter.
      4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      5.   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
subsection 12-1-9B1 of this Chapter.
   B.   Approval Factors: Approval or denial of a development permit by the
Flood Plain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
Chapter and the following relevant factors:
      1.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage.
      2.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents of
flood damage to the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      3.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others.
      4.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development.
      5.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles.
      6.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets, bridges, public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems.
      7.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site.
      8.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable.
      9.   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
      10.   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan for
that area. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-12: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this Chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-13: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This Chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this Chapter and
another ordinance conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
12-1-14: WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this Chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purpose and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This Chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This Chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
Chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder. (Ord. 89-01,
1-3-89)
12-1-15: VARIANCE PROCEDURES:
   A.   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
Chapter.
   B.   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Flood Plain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this Chapter.
   C.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board may appeal
such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   D.   The Flood Plain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   E.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this Chapter.
   F.   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half (1/2) acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in subsection 12-1-11B of
this Chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond one-
half (1/2) acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   G.   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
Chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
Chapter 1 .
   H.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   I.   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      1.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      2.   Variances shall only be issued upon, a) showing good and sufficient
cause; b) a determination that the failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and c) a determination that the
granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional
threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause
fraud on or victimization of the public or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      3.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
   J.   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided, that a) the criteria outlined in
subsections A through I of this Section are met, and b) the structure or other
development is protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base
flood and create no additional threats to public safety. (Ord. 89-01, 1-3-89)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  12-1-3 of this Chapter for purpose.
12-1-16: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Designation of the Flood Plain Administrator: The City Inspector is
hereby appointed the Flood Plain Administrator to administer and implement the
provisions of this Chapter and other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to flood plain management.
   B.   Duties and Responsibilities of the Flood Plain Administrator: Duties
and responsibilities of the Flood Plain Administrator shall include, but not be
limited to the following:
      1.   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this Chapter.
      2.   Review permit application to determine whether proposed building
site will be reasonably safe from flooding.
      3.   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this Chapter.
      4.   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those Federal, State or local governmental
agencies (including section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required.
      5.   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Flood Plain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
      6.   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
coordinating agency which is Texas Water Commission, prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      7.   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
      8.   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with Section
12-1-8 of this Chapter, the Flood Plain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a Federal, State or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
Section
12-1-9 of this Chapter.
      9.   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Flood Plain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other developments (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30
and AE on the community's FIRM unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot (1') at any point within the community. (Ord. 89-
01, 1-3-89)
