BAIRD, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Altering or tampering with code
   
10.19   Recording of ordinances; ordinance book as evidence
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Baird, Texas, shall
be designated as the Code of Baird, and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Local Gov’t Code
Ch. 53
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Baird, Texas.
      CITY COUNCIL. Whenever the words COUNCIL, or THE COUNCIL or THE CITY
COUNCIL are used, they shall mean the City Council of the City of Baird, Texas.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act
to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day
on which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing
the time, but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be
counted.
      COUNTY. Callahan County, Texas.
      DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY. Whenever a provision of this code requires or
authorizes an officer or employee of the city to do some act or perform some
duty, it shall be construed to authorize the officer or employee to designate,
delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the act or duty unless the terms
of the provision specifically designate otherwise.
      EASEMENT. A right, liberty, privilege or advantage without profit which
the owner of one parcel of land may have in the lands of another; or a right in
the owner of one parcel of land, by reason of the ownership, to use the land of
another for a special purpose not inconsistent with a general property right in
the owner.
      HIGHWAY. Includes any street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or
square, bridges, viaducts, tunnels, underpasses, overpasses and causeways in
the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a
majority of officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city, unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named, they mean
standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the city.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PENAL CODE DEFINITIONS. The provisions of Tex. Penal Code Titles 1
through 3 shall apply in the interpretation of this code to the extent that the
Penal Code mandates that they shall apply.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property, as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      REAL PROPERTY. Lands, tenements and hereditaments.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line
of the roadway and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      SIGNED. Any symbol executed or adopted by a person with present
indication to authenticate a writing.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      STREET. Includes any highway, alley, street, avenue or public place or
square, bridges, viaducts, underpasses, overpasses, tunnels and causeways in
the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER.
         (a)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
         (b)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the city shall be by the following
rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication
shall take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
   (B)   Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.15  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:  (Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 54.001)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
         Example:
         § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            The city shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Tex. Local Gov’t Code §§ 552.001
et seq.
§ 10.18  ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.19  RECORDING OF ORDINANCES; ORDINANCE BOOK AS EVIDENCE.
   All ordinances adopted or passed by the City Council shall be inscribed at
large by the Secretary in a special book to be kept for that purpose by the
Secretary. The book of ordinances and all copies and extracts therefrom shall
be evidence of the tenor and contents of the ordinances therein inscribed, as
well as such as have been heretofore or as may be hereafter therein so
inscribed.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is prohibited
or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or
wherever in such code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is
provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this code or any such
ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $2,000 in all cases arising
under the ordinances of the city that govern fire safety, zoning and public
health and sanitation, including dumping of refuse; and, in all other cases
arising under the ordinances of the city, such violation shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $500; provided, however, that, no penalty shall be greater
or less than the penalty provided for the same or a similar offense under the
laws of the state. Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance
shall continue shall constitute a separate offense; provided, however, that,
the imposition of any such fine for any such violation shall not constitute an
estoppel for other relief against any such violation available at law.
Statutory reference:
Enforcement authority; penalty, see Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 54.001
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
31.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   FINANCE
      
33.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
30.01   Organization
   
30.02   Emergency Management Director; powers and duties
   
30.03   Emergency Management Plan
   
30.04   Interjurisdictional Program
   
30.05   Override of other orders, rules and regulations
   
30.06   Liability
   
30.07   Commitment of funds
   
30.08   Prohibited acts
 
   
30.99   Penalty
§ 30.01  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There exists the Office of Emergency Management Director of the city,
which shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state laws.
   (B)   (1)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and
serve at the pleasure of the Director.
      (2)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the city and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this chapter. He or she may delegate authority of
execution of these duties to the Coordinator, but responsibility of such
execution shall remain with the Director.
   (C)   The operational Emergency Management Organization of the city shall
consist of the officers and employees of the city so designated by the Director
in the Emergency Management Plan, as well as organized volunteer groups. The
functions and duties of this Organization shall be distributed among such
officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the Emergency Management
Plan.
(Ord. 4262011, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 30.02  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall
include the following:
   (A)   Surveying actual or potential hazards which threaten life and property
within the city and identifying and requiring or recommending the
implementation of measures which would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce
the impact of such hazards if a disaster did occur;
   (B)   Supervision of the development and approval of an Emergency Management
Plan for the city and shall recommend, for adoption by the City Council, all
mutual aid agreements deemed necessary for the implementation of such Plan;
   (C)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster. The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days, except by or
with the consent of the City Council. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing or termination a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the City Secretary;
   (D)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations or directives which
are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this chapter. Such
proclamations, regulations or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring their contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the City of Secretary;
   (E)   Direct and/or control of the operations of the city’s Emergency
Management Organization as well as the training of emergency management
personnel;
   (F)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the Emergency Management Organization of the city;
   (G)   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district, state,
regional or federal Emergency Management Organization;
   (H)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any
department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
Emergency Management Plan;
   (I)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local political
subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if desirable, of an
agreement with the county in which said city is located and with other
municipalities within the county, for the county-wide coordination of emergency
management efforts;
   (J)   Supervision of, and final authorization for, the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for public shelter and other purposes;
   (K)   Authorization of agreements, after approval by the City Attorney, for
use of private property for public shelter and other purposes;
   (L)   Surveying the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies
and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for herein; and
   (M)   Other requirements as specified in the state’s Disaster Act (Tex.
Gov’t Code Ch. 418).
(Ord. 4262011, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 30.03  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall be developed and maintained
in a current state. The Plan shall set forth the form of the Organization;
establish and designated divisions and functions; assign responsibilities,
tasks, duties and powers; and designate officers and employees to carry out the
provisions of this chapter. As provided by state law, the Plan shall follow the
standards and criteria established by the State Division of Emergency
Management. Insofar as possible, the form of organization, titles and
terminology shall conform to the recommendations of the State Division of
Emergency Management. When approved, it shall be the duty of all departments
and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the Plan and to maintain
their portions of the Plan in a current state of readiness at all times. The
Emergency Management Plan shall be considered supplementary to this chapter and
have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
(Ord. 4262011, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 30.04  INTERJURISDICTIONAL PROGRAM.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge and mayors of
the other cities in said county in the formation of an interjurisdictional
Emergency Management Program for the county and shall have the authority to
cooperate in the preparation of an interjurisdictional Emergency Management
Plan and in the appointment of a joint Emergency Management Coordinator, as
management insofar as said program may affect the city.
(Ord. 4262011, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 30.05  OVERRIDE OF OTHER ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede and override
all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter
may be inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 4262011, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 30.06  LIABILITY.
   This chapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental functions for
the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither the city, the
agents and representatives of said city, nor any individual, receiver, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or trustee, nor any of the agents
thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to comply
with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons as the results
of said activity. Any person owning or controlling real estate or other
premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the city a license
of privilege, real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons
during an actual, impending or practice enemy attack or natural or human-made
disaster shall, together with his or her successors in interest, if any, not be
civilly liable for the death of, or injury to, any person on or about such real
estate or premises under such license, privilege or other permission or for
loss of, or damage to, the property of such person.
(Ord. 4262011, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 30.07  COMMITMENT OF FUNDS.
   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city in
carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this chapter
without prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have any right
to bind the city by contract, agreement or otherwise without prior and specific
approval of the City Council unless during a declared disaster. During a
declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or commit public funds of the city
when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of health, life or
property.
(Ord. 4262011, passed 4-26-2011)
§ 30.08  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder or
delay any member of the Emergency Management Organization in the enforcement of
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful of any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member of the
Emergency Management Organization of the city, unless authority to do so has
been granted to such person by the proper officials.
(Ord. 4262011, passed 4-26-2011)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99  PENALTY.
   Conviction for violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or confinement in jail for a term not
exceeding 180 days.
(Ord. 4262011, passed 4-26-2011)
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   Municipal Court Judge
   
31.02   State’s Municipal Retirement System
§ 31.01  MUNICIPAL COURT JUDGE.
   (A)   After the effective date of this section, the Office of Judge of the
Municipal Court shall be filled by appointment by the City Council.
   (B)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall have the qualifications
required by the laws of the state and the following qualifications:
      (1)   Be at least 21 years of age;
      (2)   Have a minimum of a high school or equivalent education;
      (3)   Be familiar or willing to learn the duties of the office; and
      (4)   Not have been convicted of a felony or crime of moral turpitude.
   (C)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall perform the duties and serve a
term of office prescribed by the laws of the state.
   (D)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall receive such compensation as
the City Council shall approve.
   (E)   The effective date of this section was 3-21-2006.
(Ord. 32106, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 31.02  STATE’S MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 855.407(g) of the TMRS Act, being Tex. Gov’t Code §
855.407(g), the city hereby elects to make future normal and prior service
contributions to its account in the Municipal Accumulation Fund of the System
at such combined rate of the total compensation paid by the city to employees
who are members of the System, as the System’s actuary shall annually determine
as the rate necessary to fund, within the amortization period determined as
applicable to the city under the TMRS Act, the costs of all benefits which are
or may become chargeable to or are to be paid out of the city’s account in said
Accumulation Fund, regardless of other provisions of the TMRS Act limiting the
combined rate of city contributions.
   (B)   The provisions of this section became effective on 1-1-2000.
(Ord. passed 1-1-2000)
CHAPTER 32:  FINANCE
Section
   
32.01   Municipal Court Building Security Fund
§ 32.01  MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court Building
Security Fund (the “Fund”) pursuant to Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure Article
102.017.
   (B)   The Municipal Court is hereby authorized and required to assess a
municipal court building security fee (the “fee”) in the amount of $3 against
all defendants convicted of a misdemeanor offense by the municipal court. Each
misdemeanor conviction shall be subject to a separate assessment of the fee.
   (C)   A person is considered to have been convicted in a case if:
      (1)   Judgment, sentence or both are imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person receives deferred disposition; or
      (3)   The court defers final disposition or imposition of the judgment
and sentence.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Clerk is hereby authorized and required to collect
the fee and to pay it to the City Clerk. All fees so collected and paid over to
the City Clerk shall be segregated in the Fund.
   (E)   The Fund shall be used only for the purpose of financing the purchase
of security devices and/or services for the building or buildings housing the
municipal court of the city. “Security devices and/or services” shall include
any and all items described in Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure Article 102.017
(d).
(Ord. 150421, passed 4-21-2015)
CHAPTER 33:  CITY POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Mitigation Rates
§ 33.01  MITIGATION RATES.
   (A)   The city shall initiate mitigation rates for the delivery of emergency
and non-emergency services by the Fire Department for personnel, supplies and
equipment to the scene of emergency and non-emergency incidents as listed in
Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 102615. The mitigation rates shall be based on
actual costs of the services and that which is usual, customary and reasonable
(UCR) as shown in Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 102615, which may include
any services, personnel, supplies, and equipment and with baselines established
by addendum to the Ordinance.
   (B)   A claim shall be filed to the responsible party(s) through their
insurance carrier. In some circumstances, the responsible party(s) will be
billed directly.
   (C)   The City Council may make rules or regulations and from time to time
may amend, revoke, or add rules and regulations, not consistent with this
section, as they may deem necessary or expedient in respect to billing for
these mitigation rates or the collection thereof.
   (D)   Mitigation rates will only apply to persons who are not residents of
the city. Residents within the city boundaries currently subsidize these
emergency service costs through their property taxes. Responses involving
intoxicated drivers, hazmat clean-up, intentional and negligent acts or any act
that violates any ordinance, local, state or federal statute may be subject to
all applicable rates regardless of residency. For purposes of this section, a
resident is defined as: (a) any person who maintains his or her full time
residence within the city; or (b) is the majority owner of a business that
operates from real property owned by the business located within the city. (For
purposes of this section, a business includes any joint stock company,
corporation, association, joint venture, limited liability company, club or
partnership.)
(Ord. 102615, passed 10-21-2015)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES
      
51.   INDUSTRIAL WASTE
CHAPTER 50:  UTILITIES
Section
   
50.01   Administration and maintenance of utility services
   
50.02   Water Conservation and Drought Contingency Plan
§ 50.01  ADMINISTRATION AND MAINTENANCE OF UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Application for services. Written application shall be made to the
city upon forms furnished for water, sewer and garbage collection. The
application shall state the name and the address of the applicant, and any
other information which the city deems necessary.
   (B)   Utility deposit.
      (1)   Amount of deposit. The meter deposit required for each utility
account will be based on meter size.
      (2)   Deposit held. When a customer has paid the utility bill within the
first ten days of each month for the preceding 12 months, the utility deposit
held for that customer for that address will be applied against that account
balance. The applications of deposits against account balances will be done on
a quarterly basis after the initial payments are completed by the city.
      (3)   Refund. Utility deposits will be refunded after the reconciliation
of the last utility bill for any particular account.
   (C)   Metering. Meters shall be required to measure the consumption of each
utility service furnished by the city, except garbage collection and sewage
service.
      (1)   Control of meters. All meters, curb cocks, goosenecks, valves and
meter boxes connected with the city’s water main and service pipe, including
those furnished at the expense of the consumers or property owners, shall
remain under direct control of the city.
      (2)   Tampering with meters. It shall be unlawful for any person other
than those authorized by the city to connect, disconnect, move or tamper with
any such meter, or to turn on or off the water at the curb cock, valve or
meter; or to open or tamper with any meter box.
      (3)   Meter errors. When a recheck and/or calibration of a water meter is
requested by the customer, a charge of $5 shall be assessed on the monthly bill
following the request if no error is found. If there is an error on the city’s
part, no charge shall be made for that recheck or calibration.
      (4)   Turn-offs and turn-ons. When a customer requests service turned off
or on because there is no cut-off valve at that service, a charge of $10 shall
be assessed that customer on the monthly bill following the request.
      (5)   Deposits. The meter deposit required for each utility customer
shall be as set forth in division (B)(1) above.
      (6)   Hotels, motels, recreational vehicle parks, and the like. Hotels,
motels, recreational vehicle parks, and other commercial businesses serving
transient populations will be billed one water base rate, based on meter size,
plus the minimum base rate for a 5/8-inch meter for each additional unit along
with the amount of water consumed.
   (D)   Maintenance of water system. The Superintendent of the Water
Department shall constantly inspect all parts of said water system and maintain
them in good condition; and shall keep in good repair at all times for constant
service, all pumps, machinery, hydrants and all other waterworks fixtures and
property. The Superintendent shall at all times endeavor to keep a sufficient
supply of water in the tanks:
      (1)   To assure adequate fire protection and pressure;
      (2)   To make taps and connections to mains and repairs and the like; and
      (3)   To keep the water system in good condition.
   (E)   Temporary termination of service. The Water Superintendent may, at any
time, with adequate notice, order the water cut off for repairs, extensions or
other purposes.
   (F)   Liability of city for damage. The city shall not be liable for any
damage to property of any consumer of, any utility service furnished by the
city except when damage is due to the negligence of the city.
   (G)   Penalty for late payment of bill.
      (1)   All utility bills issued by the city are due and payable by the
tenth day of each month. Any payment received on the tenth or postmarked by the
tenth of the month will be considered timely. Any payment received after that
day or postmarked after the tenth will be considered overdue and a 10% penalty
will be added to the amount due. Utility payments are required in full by 5:00
p.m. on the 25th. Service will be discontinued for those who have not paid by
the deadline.
      (2)   The city disconnects unpaid utility accounts on the twenty-sixth of
each month, but allows its utility customers to make arrangements for payment
of no more than twice per calendar year. To assist with the processing of these
payments, customers must complete the arrangement paperwork and make their
partial payment no later than 5:00 p.m. on the 23rd of each month. Vouchers for
utility payment assistance are due by noon on the 23rd. Payment in full is
required by the 25th, or by the last day of the month if arrangements are made
as prescribed.
   (H)   Interruption of service.
      (1)   Resumption of service; reconnection fee. Any consumer of utility
services furnished by the city, whose utility services have been disconnected
or terminated for the non-payment of the rates and charges therefor, may have
the utility services resumed by paying all rates, charges and penalties due the
city by the consumer, and in addition thereto, a reconnection fee of $7.50.
      (2)   Obtaining water by illegal means.
         (a)   City to pull meter. If after the city has discontinued its
services because of non-payment, the consumer subsequently cuts his or her
water back on, the city will then pull its meter and assess an additional
charge of $15.
         (b)   Penalty for circumventing meter. If after the city has pulled
its meter, the consumer still obtains water by circumventing the meter, then
there will be an additional charge of $30 for the city’s having to remedy such.
         (c)   Cumulative charges. All cumulative rates, charges, reconnection
fees and penalties due the city by the consumer must be paid in full before
service will be restored by city.
   (I)   Connection and repair of service.
      (1)   City to maintain service connections. The city shall install and
maintain all service connections from water mains to the customer’s meter
within the city, and it shall be unlawful for any other person or persons to
repair or replace service pipe from main to meter.
      (2)   Unlawful to tap mains. It shall be unlawful for any plumber or
other person, other than the tapper employed by the city waterworks, to tap any
street main, make connection with the street main, or extend service pipe from
main; the work to be under exclusive control of the city waterworks.
   (J)   Sewer connections.
      (1)   Sewer connections required. All owners or occupants of buildings,
or agents for owners, situated within 100 feet of a sanitary sewer are hereby
required to construct, or cause to be constructed, suitable water closets on
their property, and to connect the same with the city sanitary sewer system
under the direction and supervision of the city.
      (2)   Maintenance. It shall be the duty of any owner or occupant of any
building connected with the city sanitary sewer system to keep and maintain the
connection to the sewer system in perfect condition and free from obstruction.
      (3)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person to build,
construct, dig, maintain or use any dry toilet, surface privy, cesspool or
septic tank within the city; provided, however, when connection to the city
sanitary sewer system is impossible or impractical at any time, the
construction, maintenance and use of a septic tank constructed in conformity to
state law and approved by the health officer may be permitted until such time
as connection to the sewer system may be made.
   (K)   Responsibility for leakage. All property owners, their agents and/or
tenants shall be held responsible as consumers for loss of water due to leakage
in pipes and plumbing on the discharge side of the meter or on the property;
and if this water is not paid for according to the rates provided herein, when
it becomes due, the water shall be cut off by the Waterworks Department and not
turned on again until all claims are paid or adjusted. In the event of any
change during this time of payment of billing for past leakage, the landlord
and/or property owner shall be held accountable for payment of this billing
before service will be extended and water furnished to a second or other
tenant.
   (L)   Turning water service on or off. No plumber or any other person shall
turn water service on or off from the street stop cock without first obtaining
approval from the City Waterworks Superintendent or authorized representative,
except in cases of emergency.
   (M)   Extension of service to other residences. After water is introduced
into a building, or upon any premises, the same shall not be extended by any
plumber or any other person to any other residence for additional fixtures
without written permission of the City Waterworks Department.
   (N)   Repair of mains. It shall be unlawful for any plumber or person, other
than the tapper employed by the city waterworks, to tap any street main, make
connection with the street main, or to extend service pipes from the main; the
work shall be under the exclusive control of the city waterworks.
   (O)   Regulations on laying of service pipe.
      (1)   The city waterworks reserves the right to make all repairs and
renewals of service pipes from the main to the curb, and it shall be unlawful
for any other person or persons to repair or renew service pipe from the main
to the meter.
      (2)   All service pipe shall be laid at least six inches under the ground
and provided with a cut-off valve inside the service line, such as to properly
drain all pipes above ground.
   (P)   Emergency shut-off valve. Consumer shall install and have approved a
cut-off valve inside of the service line at a location accessible in case of
emergency, and shall not use the curb cock at the meter in lieu thereof.
   (Q)   Defacing, breaking into or tampering with city property. It shall be
unlawful for any person in any manner to deface the houses, walls, machinery or
fixtures connected with, or pertaining to, the city water and sewer systems. It
shall be unlawful for any person to break, damage or tamper with any part of
the water or sewer systems of the city for any purpose whatsoever, or in any
other manner maliciously interfere with or prevent the running and operation of
the system and the water supply therein.
   (R)   Waste of water prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully or negligently waste water in any manner whatsoever. Any person
having knowledge of any condition whereby water is being wasted shall
immediately notify the superintendent of the City Water Department.
   (S)   Fire hydrant use restricted.
      (1)   Fire hydrants to be opened only by city. Fire hydrants shall be
provided for the sole purpose of use in extinguishing fires, and shall be used
or opened only by the Water and Fire Departments or such persons as may be
given authority by the City Manager or city Water Department Superintendent.
      (2)   Unlawful to obtain water from fire hydrant. It shall be unlawful
for any person to carry away water from a fire hydrant without written
permission from the Water Superintendent, or to place upon or about any fire
hydrant, gate valve, curb cock, meter or meter box any object, material, debris
or structure of any kind so as to prevent immediate access to same.
   (T)   Resale of water.
      (1)   Restricted. It shall be unlawful for any customer of city water to
knowingly resell, give or otherwise furnish water to any land or premises
without first having received a permit therefor approved by the City Council.
      (2)   Permit required.
         (a)   Any consumer of city water within the corporate limits of the
city who desires to resell, give, permit or otherwise furnish water to any land
or premises shall first make application in writing for a permit to do so with
the City Manager stating the use or uses to be made of the water and the
maximum amount of water estimated to be resold or furnished monthly.
         (b)   Upon receipt of the application for said permit, the City
Manager shall forthwith refer the application to the City Council, who shall
have the sole and absolute authority to grant or refuse the application for the
permit in accordance with what it believes to be the best interest of the city,
its citizens and residents.
      (3)   Violation. In the event that any consumer of city water violates or
continues to violate the provisions of this division, and refuses to
immediately discontinue the resale or the furnishing of water to land or
premises, the City Manager shall have the authority, after having given written
notice to the consumer by certified U.S. mail, return receipt requested, to
immediately cease and desist from the violation, to disconnect and suspend, or
cause to be disconnected or suspended, all water service to the land or
premises of the consumer from which the water is being supplied to the land or
premises.
   (U)   Incorporation of this chapter into consumer contract. All of the
provisions of this section shall be deemed to be incorporated into every
contract between the city waterworks and its consumers, and each consumer shall
be charged with the responsibility for knowledge of the provisions of this
section, and by applying for and accepting water from the city waterworks, to
have assented to the provisions hereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.02  WATER CONSERVATION AND DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   The Water Conservation and Drought Contingency Plan attached to Ordinance
031715 as Exhibit “A” and made part for all purposes be, and the same is
hereby, adopted as the official policy of the city.
(Ord. 013715, passed 3-17-2015)
CHAPTER 51:  INDUSTRIAL WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Prohibited discharges generally
   
51.03   Chemical discharges
   
51.04   Heavy metals and toxic materials
   
51.05   Garbage
   
51.06   Stormwater and other unpolluted drainage
   
51.07   Temperature
   
51.08   Radioactive wastes
   
51.09   Impairment of facilities
   
51.10   Use of sewer system required; unlawful deposit of waste
   
51.11   Approving authority requirements
   
51.12   Pretreatment facilities
   
51.13   Traps
   
51.14   Control manhole
   
51.15   Sampling and testing
   
51.16   Payment of costs of collection and treatment; agreement required
   
51.17   Exceptions
   
51.18   Conditions of permits
   
51.19   Right to enter property
   
51.20   Authority to disconnect service
   
51.21   Notice of violation
   
51.22   Continuing prohibited discharge
   
51.23   Other requirements
   
51.24   Pretreatment charges and fees
   
51.25   Abnormal waste discharge requirements
   
51.26   Governmental functions
 
   
51.99   Penalty for violation of discharge regulations
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABNORMAL INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  Any industrial waste having a pollutant content
in excess of that found in normal waste, but which is otherwise acceptable to a
sanitary sewer under the terms of this chapter.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The City Secretary or his/her duly authorized
representative.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).   The quantity of oxygen, by weight,
expressed in mg/l, utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory conditions for five days at a temperature of 20°
Centigrade.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal (also called house lateral and house connection).
   CITY.  The City of Baird, Texas, or any authorized person acting in its
behalf.
   COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The measure of oxygen-consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in the water or wastewater, expressed in
mg/l as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidation in a specific
test, but not differentiating between stable and unstable organic matter, and
thus not necessarily correlating with biochemical oxygen demand.
   CONTROL MANHOLE.  A manhole giving access to a building sewer at some point
before the building sewer discharge mixes with other discharge in the public
sewer.
   CONTROL POINT.  A point of access to a course of discharge before the
discharge mixes with other discharge in the public sewer.
   GARBAGE.  Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from the preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food and from the handling, processing, storage, and
sale of food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  The waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade, or business or from the development of any natural
resource, or any mixture of the waste with water or normal wastewater, or
distinct from normal wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE.  The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the city's sewer system.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER (mg/l).  Means the same as parts per million and is a
weight-to-volume ratio; the milligram-per-liter value multiplied by the factor
8.34 shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.  Wastewater, excluding industrial wastewater,
discharged by a person into the sanitary sewer system and in which the average
concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 250 mg/l and BOD is
not more than 220 mg/l.
   OVERLOAD.  The imposition of organic or hydraulic loading on a treatment
facility in excess of its engineered design capacity.
   PERSON.  Includes a corporation, organization, government or governmental
subdivision or agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or
association.
   pH.  The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  The pipe or conduit carrying wastewater or unpolluted
drainage in which owners of abutting properties shall have the use, subject to
control by the city.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A public sewer that conveys domestic wastewater or
industrial waste or a combination of both, and into which stormwater, surface
water, groundwater, and other unpolluted wastes are not intentionally passed.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of water, wastewater, or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-
hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS.  The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the latest edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, as prepared, approved, and published
jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Environment Federation.
   STORM SEWER.  A public sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage and into which domestic wastewater or industrial wastes are not
intentionally passed.
   STORMWATER.  Rainfall or any other forms of precipitation.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The water and wastewater superintendent of the city or his/
her duly authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids measured in mg/l that either float on the surface
of or are in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, which are
largely removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   TO DISCHARGE.  To deposit, conduct, drain, emit, throw, run, allow to seep,
or otherwise release or dispose of, or to allow, permit, or suffer any of these
acts or omissions.
   TRAP.  A device designed to skim, settle, or otherwise remove grease, oil,
sand, flammable wastes, or other harmful substances.
   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER.  Water containing:
      (1)   No free or emulsified grease or oil;
      (2)   No acids or alkalis;
      (3)   No phenols or other substances producing taste or odor in effluent
waters;
      (4)   No toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state or
solution;
      (5)   No noxious or otherwise obnoxious or odorous gases;
      (6)   Not more than 10 mg/l each of suspended solids and BOD; and
      (7)   Color not exceeding 50 units as measured by the platinum-cobalt
method of determination as specified in Standard Methods.
   WASTE.  Rejected, unutilized, or superfluous substances in liquid, gaseous,
or solid form resulting from domestic, agricultural, or industrial activities.
   WASTEWATER.  A combination of the water-carried waste from residences,
business buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with
any ground, surface, and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES.  Includes all facilities for collection, pumping,
treating, and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.  The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength and concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT.  Any city-owned facilities, devices, and
structures used for receiving, processing, and treating wastewater, industrial
waste, and sludges from the sanitary sewers.
   WATERCOURSE.  A natural or man-made channel in which a flow of water occurs,
either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.02  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any waste which by itself
or by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities; or
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals.
   (B)   All discharges shall conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.03  CHEMICAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No discharge to public sewers may contain:
      (1)   Cynanide greater than 1.0 mg/l;
      (2)   Fluoride other than that contained in the public water supply;
      (3)   Chlorides in concentrations greater than 250 mg/l;
      (4)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas; or
      (5)   Substances causing an excessive chemical oxygen demand.
   (B)   No waste or wastewater discharged into public waters may contain:
      (1)   Strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or concentrated plating
solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (2)   Fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of
100 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32° and 150° Fahrenheit (0° to 65° centigrade);
      (3)   Objectionable or toxic substances exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement to such degree that any such material received in the composite
wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeds the limits established by
the approving authority for such materials; or
      (4)   Obnoxious, toxic, or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in
quantities sufficient to violate the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No waste, wastewater, or other substance may be discharged into the
public sewers which has a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5, or any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, or personnel at the facilities.
   (D)   All waste, wastewater, or other substances containing phenols,
hydrogen sulfide, or other taste- and odor-producing substances shall conform
to concentration limits established by the approving authority. After treatment
of the composite wastewater, concentration limits may not exceed the
requirements established by state, federal, or other agencies with jurisdiction
over effluent discharge.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.04  HEAVY METALS AND TOXIC MATERIALS.
   (A)   No discharge may contain concentrations of heavy metals greater than
amounts specified in this section.
   (B)   The maximum allowable concentrations of heavy metals stated in terms
of milligrams per liter (mg/l), for discharge to inland water, determined on
the basis of individual sampling in accordance with Standard Methods, are as
follows:
   Not to Exceed (Grab Sample)
      (1)   Arsenic      0.3 mg/l
      (2)   Barium         4.0 mg/l
      (3)   Boron         1.0 mg/l
      (4)   Cadmium      0.2 mg/l
      (5)   Chromium      5.0 mg/l
      (6)   Copper         2.0 mg/l
      (7)   Lead         1.5 mg/l
      (8)   Manganese      3.0 mg/l
      (9)   Mercury      0.01 mg/l
      (10)   Nickel         3.0 mg/l
      (11)   Selenium      0.2 mg/l
      (12)   Silver         0.2 mg/l
      (13)   Zinc         6.0 mg/l
   (C)   No other heavy metals or toxic materials may be discharged into public
sewers without a permit from the approving authority specifying conditions of
pretreatment, concentrations, volumes, and other applicable provisions.
   (D)   Prohibited heavy metals and toxic materials include but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Antimony.
      (2)   Beryllium.
      (3)   Bismuth.
      (4)   Cobalt.
      (5)   Molybdenum.
      (6)   Uranyl ion.
      (7)   Rhenium.
      (8)   Strontium.
      (9)   Tellurium.
      (10)   Herbicides.
      (11)   Fungicides.
      (12)   Pesticides.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.05  GARBAGE.
   (A)   No person may discharge garbage into public sewers unless it is
shredded to a degree that all particles can be carried freely under the flow
conditions normally prevailing in public sewers. Particles greater than 1/
2 inch in any dimension are prohibited.
   (B)   The approving authority is entitled to review and approve the
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of 3/
4 horsepower (0.76 HP metric) or greater.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.06  STORMWATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No person may discharge to public sanitary sewers:
      (1)   Unpolluted stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, or
subsurface drainage;
      (2)   Unpolluted cooling water;
      (3)   Unpolluted industrial process waters; or
      (4)   Other unpolluted drainage.
   (B)   In compliance with the Texas Water Quality Act and other statutes, the
approving authority may designate storm sewers and other watercourses into
which unpolluted drainage described in division (A) of this section may be
discharged.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.07  TEMPERATURE.
   No person may discharge liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150° Fahrenheit or any substance which causes the temperature of the total
wastewater treatment plant influent to increase at a rate of 10° Fahrenheit or
more per hour, or a combined total increase of plant influent temperature to
110° Fahrenheit.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.08  RADIOACTIVE WASTES.
   (A)   No person may discharge radioactive wastes or isotopes into public
sewers without the permission of the approving authority.
   (B)   The approving authority may establish, in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations, regulations for discharge of radioactive wastes
into public sewers.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.09  IMPAIRMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of
causing:
      (1)   Obstruction to the flow in sewers;
      (2)   Interference with the operation of treatment processes or
facilities; or
      (3)   Excessive loading of treatment facilities.
   (B)   Discharges prohibited by division (A) of this section include, but are
not limited to, materials which exert or cause concentrations of:
      (1)   Inert suspended solids greater than 250 mg/l, including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Fuller's earth;
         (b)   Lime slurries; and
         (c)   Lime residues.
      (2)   Dissolved solids greater than 1200 mg/l, including but not limited
to:
         (a)   Sodium chloride; and
         (b)   Sodium sulfate.
      (3)   Excessive discoloration, including but not limited to:
         (a)   Dye wastes; and
         (b)   Vegetable tanning solutions.
      (4)   BOD, COD, or chlorine demand in excess of normal plant capacity.
   (C)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance that may:
      (1)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to
clog sewers;
      (2)   Overload skimming and grease-handling equipment;
      (3)   Pass through the treatment facility without being effectively
treated by normal wastewater treatment processes due to the nonamenability of
the substance to bacterial action; or
      (4)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   (D)   No person may discharge any substance to any public sewer which:
      (1)   Is not amenable to treatment or reduction by the processes and
facilities employed; or
      (2)   Is amenable to treatment only to such a degree that the treatment
plant effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge.
   (E)   The approving authority shall regulate the flow and concentration of
slugs when they may:
      (1)   Impair the treatment process;
      (2)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
      (3)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      (4)   Render the waste unfit for disposal or industrial use.
   (F)   No person may discharge into public sewers solid or viscous substances
which may violate division (E) of this section if present in sufficient
quantity or size, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Ashes;
      (2)   Cinders;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Mud;
      (5)   Straw;
      (6)   Shavings;
      (7)   Metal;
      (8)   Glass;
      (9)   Rags;
   (10)   Feathers;
   (11)   Tar;
   (12)   Plastics;
   (13)   Wood;
   (14)   Unground garbage;
   (15)   Whole blood;
   (16)   Paunch manure;
   (17)   Hair and fleshings;
   (18)   Entrails;
   (19)   Paper products, either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
   (20)   Slops;
   (21)   Chemical residues;
   (22)   Paint residues; or
   (23)   Bulk solids.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.10  USE OF SEWER SYSTEM REQUIRED; UNLAWFUL DEPOSIT OF WASTE.
   (A)   Unless exception is granted by the approving authority, the public
sanitary sewer system shall be used by all persons discharging:
      (1)   Wastewater;
      (2)   Industrial waste; and/or
      (3)   Polluted liquids.
   (B)   Unless authorized by the state commission on environmental quality, no
person may deposit or discharge any waste included in division (A) of this
section on public or private property in or adjacent to any:
      (1)   Natural outlet;
      (2)   Watercourse;
      (3)   Storm sewer; or
      (4)   Other area within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   The approving authority shall verify prior to discharge that wastes
authorized to be discharged will receive suitable treatment within the
provisions of laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, and orders of federal,
state, and local governments.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.11  APPROVING AUTHORITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   If discharge or proposed discharge to public sewers may deleteriously
affect wastewater facilities, processes, or equipment, create a hazard to life
or health, or create a public nuisance, the approving authority shall require:
      (1)   Pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the public
sewers;
      (2)   Control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (3)   Payment to cover the cost of handling and treatment of the wastes.
   (B)   The approving authority is entitled to determine whether a discharge
or proposed discharge is included under division (A) of this section.
   (C)   The approving authority shall reject wastes when:
      (1)   It determines that a discharge or proposed discharge is included
under this section; and
      (2)   The discharger does not meet the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.12  PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   If pretreatment or control is required, the approving authority shall
review and approve design and installation of equipment and processes.
   (B)   The design and installation of equipment and processes must conform to
all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances, and other laws.
   (C)   Any person responsible for discharge requiring pretreatment, flow-
equalizing, or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in an
effective operating condition at his own expense.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-18)
§ 51.13  TRAPS.
   (A)   Discharge requiring a trap includes:
      (1)   Grease, or waste containing grease in excessive amounts;
      (2)   Oil;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Flammable wastes; and
      (5)   Other harmful ingredients.
   (B)   Any person responsible for discharge requiring a trap shall, at his
own expense and as required by the approving authority:
      (1)   Provide equipment and facilities of a type and capacity approved by
the approving authority;
      (2)   Locate the trap in a manner that provides ready and easy
accessibility for cleaning and inspection; and
      (3)   Maintain the trap in an effective operating condition.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.14  CONTROL MANHOLE.
   Any person responsible for discharge through a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall, at his own expense and as required by the approving
authority:
   (A)   Install an accessible and safely located control manhole;
   (B)   Install meters and other appurtenances to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the waste; and
   (C)   Maintain the equipment and facilities.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.15  SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling shall be conducted according to customarily accepted methods,
reflecting the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and determining the
existence of hazards to health, life, limb, and property. (Note: The particular
analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite sample from all
outfalls of the premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples
should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses
are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls. Where applicable, 16-
hour, 8-hour, or some other period may be required. Periodic grab samples are
used to determine pH.)
   (B)   Examination and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
required by this section shall be:
      (1)   Conducted in accordance with latest edition of Standard Methods;
and
      (2)   Determined from suitable samples taken at the control manhole
provided or other control point authorized by the approving authority.
   (C)   BOD and suspended solids shall be determined by composite sampling.
   (D)   The city may select an independent firm or laboratory to determine
flow, BOD and suspended solids.
   (E)   The city is entitled to select the time of sampling at its sole
discretion so long as at least annual samples are taken.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.16  PAYMENT OF COSTS OF COLLECTION AND TREATMENT; AGREEMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Persons making discharge of industrial waste shall pay a charge to
cover the cost of collection and treatment.
   (B)   When the discharge of industrial waste is approved by the approving
authority, the city or its authorized representative shall enter into an
agreement or arrangement providing:
      (1)   Terms of acceptance by the city; and
      (2)   Payment by the person making the discharge.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.17  EXCEPTIONS.
   A person discharging industrial wastes into public sewers prior to the
effective date of this chapter may continue without penalty as long as he:
   (A)   Does not increase the quantity or quality of discharge without
permission of the approving authority;
   (B)   Has discharged the industrial waste at least two months prior to the
effective date of this chapter; and
   (C)   Applies for and is granted a permit no later than 120 days after the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.18  CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The city may grant a permit to discharge to persons meeting all of the
requirements of the savings clause provided that the person:
      (1)   Submits an application within 60 days after the effective date of
this chapter on forms supplied by the approving authority;
      (2)   Secures approval by the approving authority of plans and
specifications for pretreatment facilities when required;
      (3)   Has complied with all requirements for agreements or arrangements,
including, but not limited to, provisions for:
         (a)   Payment of charges;
         (b)   Installation and operation of pretreatment facilities; and
         (c)   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and strength; and
      (4)   Provides a sampling point subject to the provisions of this chapter
and approval of the approving authority.
   (B)   A person applying for a new discharge permit shall:
      (1)   Meet all conditions of this section; and
      (2)   Secure a permit prior to discharging any waste.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.19  RIGHT TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter any public
or private property at any reasonable time for the purpose of enforcing this
chapter.
   (B)   Anyone acting under this authority shall observe the establishment's
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security, and fire
protection.
   (C)   Except when caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain
safe conditions, the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to
its property by city employees and against the company and growing out of the
sampling operation.
   (D)   (1)   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the
city bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a negotiated easement for the
purposes of:
         (a)   Inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, or repair;
         (b)   Maintenance of any portion of the sewer system lying within the
easements; and
         (c)   Conducting any other authorized activity.
      (2)   All activities shall be conducted in full accordance with the terms
of the negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
   (E)   No person acting under authority of this provision may inquire into
any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper,
or other industries, beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the public sewers.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.20  AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and
disconnect an industrial customer from the system when:
      (1)   Acids or chemicals damaging to sewer lines or treatment processes
are released to the sewer causing rapid deterioration of these structures and
interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
      (2)   A governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted, and it is found
that the customer is delivering wastewater to the city's system that cannot be
sufficiently treated or requires treatment that is not provided by the city as
normal domestic treatment; or
      (3)   The industrial customer:
         (a)   Discharges industrial waste or wastewater that is in violation
of the permit issued by the approving authority;
         (b)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled, variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
         (c)   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services
when due; or
         (d)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
   (B)   If service is discontinued pursuant to this section, the city shall:
      (1)   Disconnect the customer;
      (2)   Supply the customer with the governmental agency's report and
provide the customer with all pertinent information; and
      (3)   Continue disconnection until such time as the industrial customer
provides additional pretreatment or other facilities designed to remove the
objectionable characteristics from the industrial wastes.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.21  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The city shall serve persons discharging in violation of this chapter with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for satisfactory compliance.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.22  CONTINUING PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
   No person may continue discharging in violation of this chapter beyond the
time limit for satisfactory compliance.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.23  OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Other sections of the city code dealing with cross connections, items
pertaining to safeguarding the water supply, waste traps, and items
safeguarding the sanitary system remain applicable.
   (B)   Compliance with this chapter does not exempt or excuse a person from
complying with provisions of the Texas Water Quality Act and its amendments,
the Clean Water Act and its amendments, or the requirements of any applicable
waste discharge permit, order, rule or regulation issued by the Texas Water
Commission and/or the Environmental Protection Agency.
   (C)   No section or division in this chapter shall preclude any agreement
between the director and any person to discharge wastewater, which complies
with the objectives of this chapter, for treatment by the city. Said agreements
shall provide for reimbursement to the city for any expenses incurred in the
treatment and disposal of such wastewater.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.24  PRETREATMENT CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up
and operating the city's pretreatment program which may include:
   (A)   Fees for wastewater discharge permit applications including the cost
of processing such applications;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collection and analyzing a user's discharge, and reviewing
monitoring reports submitted by users;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing and responding to accidental discharge procedures
and construction;
   (D)   Fees for filing appeals; and
   (E)   Other fees as to the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein. These fees relate solely to the matters covered
by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines, and penalties
chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.25  ABNORMAL WASTE DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Persons generating abnormal industrial waste may discharge the waste
into the sanitary sewer provided:
      (1)   The waste will not cause interference;
      (2)   The waste will not endanger or be harmful to the operating
personnel of the sewer system;
      (3)   The waste will not cause damage to the collection system;
      (4)   The waste will not impair the treatment processes;
      (5)   The waste will not affect sludge quality and/or require
modifications in sludge disposal practices;
      (6)   The waste will not have an affect on receiving water quality;
      (7)   The discharge is in compliance with all limitations and
requirements in this chapter;
      (8)   The waste shall be assessed a surcharge for any abnormal levels of
BOD or TOC, TSS and FOG or TPH. There shall be one surcharge rate for BOD, TOC,
FOG, or TPH, and a separate rate for TSS; and
      (9)   All required permits are in force and approval in writing has been
given by the director for any waivers or special agreements.
   (B)   (1)   Computation of the surcharge for the abnormal industrial waste
shall be based on the following formulas:
         S = V (8.34 [X (BOD/TOC-220 + Y (TSS-220) + Z (FOG-100) + Z (TPH-20)].
         S = Surcharge in dollars that will appear on the customer's monthly
bill.
         V = Volume of wastewater discharge from user, in millions of gallons.
This volume may be calculated from discharge meter or by a percentage of water
consumption, as determined by the director.
         8.34 = Pounds per gallon of water.
         X = Unit charge in dollars per pound of BOD or TOC ($0.13).
         BOD = BOD strength in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
         TOC = Total organic carbon strength in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
         220 = Normal BOD/TOC strength in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
         Y = Unit charge in dollars per pound for TSS ($0.10).
         TSS = Total suspended solids concentration in milligrams per liter
(mg/l).
         220 = Normal TSS concentration in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
         Z = Unit charge in dollars per pound for FOG and TPH ($0.25).
         FOG = Fats, oil, and grease concentration in milligrams per liter (mg/
l).
         TPH - Total petroleum hydrocarbons in mg/l.
         100 = Normal FOG concentration in mg/l.
         20 = Normal TPH concentration in mg/l.
         X, Y, and Z values shall be set by the city council from time to time.
      (2)   If the strength or concentration for BOD, TOC, TSS, FOG or TPH is
less than the normal strength for that category, there shall be no surcharge
for that category, nor shall there be a credit given to the total surcharge if
the strength or concentration of all three categories is less than the normal.
Surcharges payable under this division shall become due monthly after the
effective date of the surcharge.
      (3)   All BOD, TOC, FOG, TPH and TSS values in determining the surcharge
shall be reevaluated and adjusted to reflect any changes in wastewater
characteristics as sampling results deem it necessary.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.26  GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS.
   The inspectors, agents, and representatives of the city charged with the
enforcement of this chapter shall be deemed to be performing a governmental
function for the benefit of the general public, and neither the city, the
director, nor the individual inspector, agent or representative shall ever be
held liable for any loss or damage, whether real or asserted, caused or alleged
to have been caused as a result of the performance of such governmental
function.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
§ 51.99  PENALTY FOR VIOLATION OF DISCHARGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A person who continues prohibited discharge is guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction is punishable by a fine of not more than $200.00 for each
act of violation and for each day of violation.
   (B)   In addition to proceeding under authority of division (A) of this
section, the city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies
to which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against
a person continuing prohibited discharge.
   (C)   In addition to sanctions provided for by this chapter, the city is
entitled to exercise sanctions provided by other sections of this code as well
as city ordinance for failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer
service when due.
   (D)   Penalty for criminal mischief. The city may pursue all criminal and
civil remedies to which it is entitled under authority of statutes and
ordinances against a person who negligently, willfully, or maliciously causes
loss by tampering with or destroying public sewers or treatment facilities.
(Ord. 041718, passed 4-17-2018)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Definitions
   
70.002   City Traffic Engineer; office created; appointed
   
70.003   City Traffic Engineer; powers and duties relative to traffic generally
   
70.004   Direction of traffic
   
70.005   Authority of Chief of Police to adopt emergency regulations
   
70.006   Obedience to police
   
70.007   Application of chapter; public employees
   
70.008   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.009   Persons propelling pushcarts, riding bicycles or animals or driving
animals
   
70.010   Sounding horn; unnecessary noise
   
70.011   Use of siren
   
70.012   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles
   
70.013   Riding on motorcycles
   
70.014   Clinging to vehicles
   
70.015   Unlawful riding
   
70.016   Roller skates, coasters and the like in streets
   
70.017   Repairing vehicles on streets
   
70.018   Permit required to park vehicle for sale or displaying advertising on
street; permit fee; conditions of issuance of permit
   
70.019   Intoxilizer test fee
   
70.020   Cruising prohibited in designated areas
Traffic-Control Devices, Signs and Signals
   
70.030   Existence of official traffic-control device prima facie evidence that
device was erected pursuant to proper and lawful authority
   
70.031   Obedience to and required traffic-control devices
   
70.032   Traffic-control signal legend
   
70.033   Intersections where stop required; to be designated by City Traffic
Engineer
   
70.034   Signs to bear the word “stop”
   
70.035   Yield signs; authorized
   
70.036   Yield signs; requirements
   
70.037   Flashing signals
   
70.038   Obedience to signal indicating approach of railroad train
   
70.039   Pedestrian control signals
   
70.040   Emergency amber signal lights; operation of vehicles when lights on
   
70.041   Display of unauthorized signs, signals or markings
   
70.042   Interference with official traffic-control devices or railroad signs
or signals
   
70.043   Proof required in prosecution
Operation of Vehicles
   
70.055   Drive on right side of roadway; exceptions
   
70.056   Overtaking a vehicle on the left
   
70.057   When overtaking on the right is permitted
   
70.058   Limitations on overtaking on the left
   
70.059   Vehicles entering stop or yield intersections
   
70.060   Right turns from bus lanes
   
70.061   Right-of-way at intersections
   
70.062   U-turns
   70.63   Limitations on backing; generally
   
70.064   Signal on backing
   
70.065   Emerging from alley, driveway or building
   
70.066   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
70.067   Starting and turning and signals on stopping and turning
   
70.068   Operation of vehicles and street cars on approach of authorized
emergency vehicles
   
70.069   Authorized emergency vehicles to have right-of-way
   
70.070   Interference with authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.071   Use restricted of freeways to automotive vehicles
   
70.072   Direction of travel on freeways; entrances and exits; crossing median
prohibited; parking prohibited
   
70.073   Operation of vehicles except certain buses and bicycles in bus lanes
prohibited; certain bus lanes designated
   
70.074   One-way streets
   
70.075   Speeding
   
70.076   Obstruction to driver’s view or driving mechanism
   
70.077   Following too closely
   
70.078   Driving on divided highways
   
70.079   Driving through processions; exceptions
   
70.080   Driving upon sidewalks
   
70.081   Reckless driving
   
70.082   Following fire apparatus or ambulance
   
70.083   Crossing fire hose
   
70.084   Safe passing of vulnerable road users
Bicycles and Motor-Assisted Scooters
   
70.095   Definitions
   
70.096   Helmet required
   
70.097   Prohibited unsafe conduct
   
70.098   Effective date
Vehicles Carrying Hazardous Products
   
70.110   Prohibition
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE or ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is
inoperable and more than eight years old and left unattended on public property
for more than 48 hours, or a motor vehicle that has remained illegally on
public property for a period of more than 48 hours, or a motor vehicle that has
remained on private property without the consent of the owner or person in
control of the property for more than 48 hours.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE. Vehicles of the Fire Department (fire patrol),
police vehicles, public and private ambulances for which permits have been
issued by the State Board of Health, emergency vehicles of municipal
departments or public service corporations as are designated or authorized by
the governing body of an incorporated city, and private vehicles operated by
volunteer firefighters or certified emergency medical services volunteers while
answering a fire alarm or responding to a medical emergency, and vehicles
operated by blood banks or tissue banks, accredited or approved under the laws
of this state or the United States, while making emergency deliveries of blood,
drugs or medicines or organs.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201
   BUS LANE. That portion of roadway devoted primarily to the use by buses of
the public bus transportation system operating in the Fort Worth area, such
system being commonly known as “CITRAN.”
   COMMERCIAL DELIVERY ROUTE. Any street or highway so designated by the City
Council for the use by any commercial motor vehicle, truck-tractor, trailer,
semi-trailer, or any combination thereof.
   COMMERCIAL LOADING ZONE. A space or section of the curb set aside for the
purpose of loading and unloading of persons or the purpose of loading,
unloading, delivery or pick up of supplies or merchandise.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, designed or used
primarily to transport property. The term includes a passenger car
reconstructed and used primarily for delivery purposes; and
      (2)   A motor vehicle displaying the registrant’s name and address
permanently affixed in characters at least three inches high on both sides of
the vehicle, with such display being in a color contrasting with that of the
vehicle and placed approximately midway vertically on doors or side panels.
   CROSSWALK.
      (1)   That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway; and
      (2)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing, by lines or other markings.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.302(3)
   FREEWAY. A divided, controlled access highway for through traffic.
Statutory reference:
   “Limited-access or controlled-access highway,” see Tex. Transportation Code
§ 541.302(8)
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.302(3)
   FRONTAGE ROAD. A street located next to a freeway and auxiliary thereto,
constructed so as to provide vehicular access to and from the freeway. The
following terms have the same definition as FRONTAGE ROAD and any one of these
terms may be substituted for the term FRONTAGE ROAD: “access road,” “access
street,” “frontage street,” “service road” and “service street.”
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.302(5)
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two or more highways which join one another at any angle, or the area within
which vehicles traveling upon different highways joining at any angle may come
in conflict;
      (2)   Where a highway includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing of two roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection; and
      (3)   The junction of any alley with a street or highway shall not
constitute an intersection.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.303
   JUNKED VEHICLE. Either:
      (1)   A vehicle that is self-propelled and does not have lawfully
attached to it:
         (a)   An unexpired license plate; or
         (b)   A valid motor vehicle inspection certificate; and
         (c)   Is inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than 72
consecutive hours if the vehicle is on public property, or for more than 20
consecutive days if the vehicle is on private property.
      (2)   A vehicle that is self-propelled and is wrecked, dismantled or
partially dismantled, and has remained wrecked, dismantled or partially
dismantled for more than 72 consecutive hours if the vehicle is on public
property, or for more than 20 consecutive days if the vehicle is on private
property.
      (3)   The term JUNKED VEHICLE shall include any part of a junked vehicle
or tarps or covers thereon, that is visible at any time of the year from any
private lot, tract or parcel of land, occupied or unoccupied, improved or
unimproved, other than the lot, tract or parcel of land on which the vehicle,
vehicle part, tarp or cover is located or from any public place or public-
right-of-way.
   LARGE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle which exceeds 26 feet in length, but is less
than 40 feet in total length;
      (2)   A boat trailer or other trailer which exceeds 26 feet in length,
but is less than 40 feet in total length; or
      (3)   A converted or partially converted bus which exceeds 26 feet in
length, but is less than 40 feet in total length.
   MOBILE HOME. A living quarters equipped and used for sleeping and eating
which may be moved from one location to another over a public street by being
pulled behind a motor vehicle.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201(11)
   MOTORBUS. Every vehicle which is used in transporting persons upon the
public streets of the city for compensation or hire and has a passenger
carrying capacity of more than 16 persons except those operated by muscular
power or exclusively on stationary rails or tracks or owned by a public or
governmental agency and operated for the transportation of children to and from
school functions or privately owned and operated for the transportation of
children to and from school functions or those operated for the transportation
of persons to and from church functions.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201(3), (15), (16)
   MOTORCYCLE. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to propel itself with not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201(9)
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE. Any sign, signal (including a traffic-
control signal), marking or device not inconsistent with state statute or this
chapter, placed or erected by authority of a public body or official having
jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.304
   OVERSIZE COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any vehicle designed for the transport of more than 15 passengers,
inclusive of the driver;
      (2)   Trailers which are more than 20 feet in length from end to end,
more than seven feet in width at their widest point, or more than seven feet in
height at their highest point; or
      (3)   Any motor vehicle with a gross weight, registered weight or gross
weight rating, as those terms are defined in state law, of more than 15,000
pounds, including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Dump truck;
         (b)   Truck-tractor;
         (c)   Concrete-mixing truck;
         (d)   Stake-bed truck;
         (e)   Flat-bed tow truck; or
         (f)   Panel truck.
   OVERSIZE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle which is 40 feet or greater in total length;
      (2)   A boat trailer or other trailer which is 40 feet or greater in
total length; or
      (3)   A converted or partially converted bus which is 40 feet or greater
in total length.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, upon a
roadway, otherwise than temporarily in obedience to an official traffic-control
device or for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading
merchandise or passengers.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.401(6)
   PARKING METER. A device that registers the amount of time purchased for the
parking of a motor vehicle in a parking zone.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONE. A space or section of the curb set aside for the
exclusive use of loading and unloading of persons.
   PEDESTRIAN. Any person afoot.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.001(3)
   PERMIT. A current and valid document issued by or through the department of
transportation and public works that allows on-street parking at metered or un-
metered locations for a specific period of time. A PERMIT may also be a
handicapped tag issued by a county or state administration.
   POLE TRAILER. Every vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by
another vehicle and attached to the towing vehicle by means of a reach, or
pole, or by being boomed, or otherwise secured to the towing vehicle, and
ordinarily used for transporting long or irregularly shaped loads such as
poles, pipes or structural members capable, generally, of sustaining themselves
as beams between the supporting connections.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201(13)
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the municipal police department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, seeTex. Transportation Code § 541.002(4)
   PRIMA FACIE. The term PRIMA FACIE is to be defined according to the law of
the state, and, to the extent that there is no conflict with state law, the
following meaning shall apply:
      Such as will suffice to constitute proof of a fact unless and until it is
overcome, rebutted or contradicted by other evidence; no particular weight is
assigned to prima facie evidence by law except that the factfinder may find a
verdict based upon it; as in all criminal cases, the accused starts out with a
presumption of innocence that must be overcome by evidence beyond a reasonable
doubt.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.302(9)
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A motor vehicle primarily designed as a temporary
living quarters for recreational camping or travel use. The term includes a
travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper and motor home.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.401(8)
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two or more separate roadways the term ROADWAY as used herein shall
refer to any such roadway separately, but not to all such roadways
collectively.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.302(11)
   SEMI-TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power, other than a pole
trailer, designed for carrying persons or property and for being drawn by a
motor vehicle and so constructed that some part of its weight and that of its
own load rests upon or is carried by another motor vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201(17)
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.302(16)
   STAND or STANDING. The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
receiving or discharging passengers.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.401(9)
   STOP or STOPPING. When prohibited, means any halting, even momentarily, of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
official traffic-control device.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.401(10)
   STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.302(5)
   TEXAS LITTER ABATEMENT ACT. Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 365.
   TRAFFIC. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars and
other conveyances either singly or together while using any highway for
purposes of travel.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.301
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
permitted to proceed.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.304(3)
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power designed for carrying
persons or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed
that no part of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201(20)
   TRUCK ROUTE. Any street or highway so designated by the City Council for use
by any commercial motor vehicle, truck-tractor, trailer, semi-trailer or any
combination thereof.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed or used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than part of the
weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201(22)
   VEHICLE. Every mechanical device, in, upon or by which any person or
property is or may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, including
motor vehicles, commercial motor vehicles, truck tractors, trailers and semi-
trailers, severally, as hereinafter defined, but excepting devices moved by
human power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. The term
includes self-propelled off-road vehicles designed and intended to be operated
in places other than on public streets, including, but not limited to, race
cars, dirt track vehicles, all-terrain vehicles and golf carts.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201(23)
§ 70.002  CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER; OFFICE CREATED; APPOINTED.
   The office of City Traffic Engineer within the Department of Transportation
and Public Works is hereby established. The City Traffic Engineer shall be the
Director of Transportation and Public Works, or an employee of the Department
appointed by the Director of Transportation and Public Works and shall exercise
the powers and duties so provided in this code and other ordinances of the city
relative to traffic.
§ 70.003  CITY TRAFFIC ENGINEER; POWERS AND DUTIES RELATIVE TO TRAFFIC
GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be the general duty of the City Traffic Engineer to determine
the installation and proper timing of official traffic-control devices, to
conduct engineering analyses of traffic accidents and to devise remedial
measures, to conduct engineering investigation of traffic conditions and to
cooperate with other city officials in the development of ways and means to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out the means to improve traffic
conditions, and to carry out the additional powers and duties imposed by the
ordinances.
   (B)   The City Traffic Engineer, except as otherwise directed by this
chapter, and except as otherwise directed from time to time by the City
Council, shall have power and he or she is hereby authorized:
      (1)   To regulate the operation and parking of vehicles within the city,
including private property used for public purposes, by the erection or placing
of official traffic-control devices to indicate prohibited or limited parking,
prima facie maximum and minimum reasonable and prudent speeds specified by
statute or established by ordinance or other lawful manner, restricted speed
areas, one-way streets, through or arterial streets, stop streets, “U” turns,
school zones, loading and unloading zones and the place and manner of operating
or parking vehicles;
      (2)   To regulate the movement of pedestrians upon the streets and
sidewalks by the erection or placing of official traffic-control devices
indicating the flow of pedestrian traffic where, in his or her opinion, there
is a particular danger to pedestrians, and to maintain such devices, or cause
them to be maintained;
      (3)   To designate truck routes and to regulate the parking of vehicles
of various sizes and weights;
      (4)   To cause all such necessary official traffic-control devices to be
erected or placed on any street or part of a street when he or she deems such
action necessary;
      (5)   To mark off traffic lanes on streets and parts of streets
indicating and directing the flow of traffic, when, in his or her judgment,
such action is necessary;
      (6)   To determine and designate the character or type of, and to place
and maintain, or cause to be placed and maintained, all official traffic-
control devices, including all official traffic signs and signals;
      (7)   To determine and designate intersections where particular hazard
exists and to determine whether vehicles shall stop at one or more entrances to
any such stop intersection, and to erect a stop sign at every such place where
a stop is required;
      (8)   To determine and designate intersections where particular hazard
exists and to designate whether vehicles on one of the intersecting streets
yield the right-of-way to vehicles on the other street and to erect a “yield”
sign at every place where need is determined for such a sign;
      (9)   To erect or place official traffic-control devices, including
appropriate signs and markings, to designate the truck routes and commercial
delivery routes described in this chapter;
      (10)   To designate, for such period as might be necessary, alternate
truck routes and commercial delivery routes whenever any street designated as a
truck route or commercial delivery route is being repaired or is otherwise
temporarily out of use;
      (11)   To determine and designate spaces and/or lanes for exclusive uses
as bus zones, bus lanes, taxicab stands and passenger and freight loading
zones, no parking zones and “one-way” traffic lanes in which driving is
prohibited in one direction and permitted in the opposite direction, and to
place or erect official traffic-control devices, indicating same, within any
areaway, parkway, traffic-way or parking space owned or controlled by any
public service concern, public service utility company, terminal company,
railroad or other quasi-public corporation or public concern, designed for the
temporary parking of patrons of such public concern, utility or corporation;
      (12)   To designate, upon any street or portion of any street, the
parking meter zones set forth in this chapter where it is determined, upon the
basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that the installation of
parking meters shall be necessary to aid in the regulation, control or
inspection of the parking of vehicles in the exercise of the police power of
regulating, operating or controlling the operation of vehicles using the public
streets, to install and maintain parking meters upon the curb immediately
adjacent to the individual parking spaces, in order to control and regulate
such parking meter zones, to designate the maximum parking time for each
parking meter, basing this designation upon the investigation above set forth;
to erect or place an official traffic-control device, including lines or marks
on the curb or on the street about or alongside each parking meter, in order to
designate the parking space for which such meter is to be used;
      (13)   To establish such loading zones as are necessary for the conduct
of business and to use official traffic-control devices to designate such
zones; and
      (14)   To designate some member of his or her department to make regular
collections of the money deposited in parking meters, which member shall remove
these coins from the meters, place the coins in sealed or locked containers,
and deliver such containers and funds to the place designated by the City
Secretary.
§ 70.004  DIRECTION OF TRAFFIC.
   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic, either in person or by means of visible or audible signals, in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter; provided that, in the event of
a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department and Fire Department may direct traffic, as
conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate traffic by means of police officers, see Tex.
Transportation Code § 542.202
§ 70.005  AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE TO ADOPT EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make and enforce regulations
necessary to make effective the provisions of this chapter and to make and
enforce temporary regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions.
§ 70.006  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a vehicle to refuse or fail to
comply with any lawful order, signal or direction of a police officer.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.501
§ 70.007  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER; PUBLIC EMPLOYEES.
   The provisions of this chapter applicable to the drivers of vehicles upon
the highways shall apply to the drivers of all vehicles owned or operated by
the United States, this state or any county, city, town, district or any other
political subdivision of the state, subject to such specific exceptions as are
set forth in this chapter with reference to authorized emergency vehicles.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.002
§ 70.008  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to, but not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth in this section, but subject to the
conditions herein stated.
   (B)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
      (1)   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
      (3)   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he or she does not
endanger life or property; and/or
      (4)   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning in
specified directions.
   (C)   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle shall
apply only when such vehicle is making use of audible and visual signals
meeting the requirements of Tex. Revised Civil Statutes Article 6701d, § 124,
except that an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need
not be equipped with or display a red light visible from in front of the
vehicle. The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle that is used for law
enforcement purposes may operate without using the emergency warning devices
required by this division (C) only when the driver is responding to an
emergency call or when he or she is in pursuit of a suspected violator of the
law and he or she has probable cause to believe that:
      (1)   Knowledge of his or her presence will cause the suspect to destroy
or lose evidence of a suspected felony;
      (2)   Knowledge of his or her presence will cause the suspect to cease a
suspected continuing felony before the driver has acquired sufficient evidence
to establish grounds for arrest;
      (3)   Knowledge of his or her presence will cause the suspect to evade
apprehension or identification of the suspect or his or her vehicle; or
      (4)   Traffic conditions on a multilaned roadway are such that movements
of motorists in response to the emergency warning devices may increase the
potential for a collision or may unreasonably extend the duration of the
pursuit.
   (D)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle that is used for law
enforcement purposes may not operate without using the emergency warning
devices as provided above unless he or she has first notified a designated
office of his or her intention to operate without such devices. The designated
office to which such notification is made shall keep an accurate record of the
exact time notification is received.
   (E)   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the consequences of
his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
Statutory reference:
   Operation of vehicles upon approach of authorized emergency vehicle, see
Tex. Transportation Code § 541.156
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 546
§ 70.009  PERSONS PROPELLING PUSHCARTS, RIDING BICYCLES OR ANIMALS OR DRIVING
ANIMALS.
   Every person propelling any pushcart or riding a bicycle or an animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal shall be subject to the provisions
of this chapter applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those
provisions of this chapter with reference to the equipment of vehicles and
except those which by their very nature can have no application.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 542.003
§ 70.010  SOUNDING HORN; UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver or operator of any motor-driven vehicle
to sound the horn, gong or other device for giving warning upon same, in a
loud, unusual or unnecessary manner or to use same at any time or place except
as a warning of danger.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 547.501
§ 70.011  USE OF SIREN.
   It shall be unlawful for any person except a person operating an authorized
emergency vehicle to use a siren on any vehicle; provided, that those who are
permitted to use a siren shall be required to use the same only when an
emergency call is being made.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 547.501
§ 70.012  BOARDING OR ALIGHTING FROM MOVING VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to board or alight from any vehicle
while such vehicle is in motion.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.013  RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only upon the permanent and
regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall not carry any other
person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle unless such motorcycle
is designed to carry more than one person, in which event a passenger may ride
upon the permanent and regular seat if designed for two persons, or upon
another seat firmly attached to the rear or side of the operator.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 545.416
§ 70.014  CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, sled,
roller skates or any toy vehicle to cling to or attach himself or herself or
his or her vehicle to any streetcar or vehicle upon a roadway.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.015  UNLAWFUL RIDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, or for the operator of a
vehicle to permit another person to ride, upon any portion of any vehicle not
designed or intended for the use of passengers when the vehicle is in motion.
This provision shall not apply to an employee engaged in the necessary
discharge of duty, or to persons riding within truck bodies in space intended
for merchandise.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.016  ROLLER SKATES, COASTERS AND THE LIKE IN STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person upon roller skates, or riding in or by
means of any coaster, toy vehicle or similar device to go upon any roadway
except while crossing a street on a crosswalk.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.017  REPAIRING VEHICLES ON STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any repair work upon any
vehicle on any street in the city.
   (B)   As used in this section, the term REPAIR WORK shall mean any nature of
work upon such vehicles, including, but not being limited to, motor repairs,
body repairs and greasing such vehicles, but such term, as used in this
chapter, shall not include such emergency repair work as may be necessary to
allow a damaged or stalled vehicle to be moved to a place other than the
streets of the city.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.018  PERMIT REQUIRED TO PARK VEHICLE FOR SALE OR DISPLAYING ADVERTISING ON
STREET; PERMIT FEE; CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park upon a street any vehicle
displayed for sale or for the purpose of displaying advertising; provided, that
the City Manager, or such official of the city as he or she might designate, is
hereby authorized to issue permits for the parking of automobiles, trucks,
vans, trailers or similar vehicles on a street for the purpose of displaying
advertising or products in connection with any lawful convention, charitable
event, civic event (not including political campaigns), or an event celebrating
the opening or dedication of a new enterprise, business, commercial or
industrial facility, subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Only metered parking spaces or such unmetered parking spaces as have
not been previously restricted as to use shall be utilized for this purpose;
   (B)   A fee of $5 per day for each metered parking space or a fee of $5 per
day for each 21 linear feet of curb space in nonmetered zones so utilized shall
be paid in advance of the issuance of a permit;
   (C)   The number of days for which each such permit is issued shall be shown
in writing on the face of the permit; and Sundays and legal holidays shall be
included for the purpose of computing the permit fee and the period of time for
which the permit is issued;
   (D)   The City Manager or such official of the city as he or she shall
designate shall prescribe such conditions for the issuance of each permit as he
or she deems necessary in the public interest, and he or she shall approve,
prior to the issuance of a permit, the nature and content of all advertising
material to be displayed. It shall be a violation of this section for any
person holding a permit hereunder to display or permit to be displayed any
advertising material other than that which has been so approved;
   (E)   No automobile, truck, van, trailer or similar vehicle parked on a
public street under this section shall exceed 96 inches in width, including
load; and
   (F)   A permit issued under this section will not authorize the use of any
loudspeaker or public address system in the parking spaces permitted to be
used.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.019  INTOXILIZER TEST FEE.
   (A)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms shall have
the meaning indicated:
      INTOXILIZER TEST. The same as breathalizer test.
      PERSON. Any individual or employee of a municipality, town or village
other than this city.
   (B)   Amount. Any person who shall request authorized city personnel to
conduct an intoxilizer test shall pay a fee of $75.
§ 70.020  CRUISING PROHIBITED IN DESIGNATED AREAS.
   (A)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“cruising ordinance.”
   (B)   Purposes and findings.
      (1)   Purposes. The purpose of this section is to increase emergency
vehicle and police access to certain areas (“no cruising zones”) by enhancing
the orderly and unobstructed flow of motor vehicle traffic throughout such
areas. This will be accomplished by:
         (a)   Reducing traffic congestion caused by an increased volume of
motor vehicle traffic participating in repetitive transit throughout such
areas;
         (b)   Reducing the likelihood of preventable mishaps and crises
arising from an inability of police and emergency personnel to respond to
locations within such areas due to excessive traffic congestion caused by
cruising;
         (c)   Enhancing police and emergency personnel response time to such
areas by reducing the excessive traffic congestion caused by cruising; and
         (d)   Increasing access by members of the general public to such
areas, which access is currently restricted due to unnecessary traffic
congestion arising from cruising.
      (2)   Findings. In determining that a need exists for this section, the
City Council finds and determines as follows.
         (a)   Cruising and the resulting gridlock of traffic have created
significant problems in gaining access to certain areas, (“no cruising” zones),
not only for the general public, but more importantly for emergency vehicles.
         (b)   Incidents have occurred in which the police department has been
delayed in responding to police incidents and emergencies because of the
traffic congestion resulting from cruising.
         (c)   Incidents have occurred in which fire department and emergency
medical personnel have been delayed in responding to medical emergencies
because of traffic congestion resulting from cruising.
         (d)   The inability of the Police Department to respond within a
reasonable time to police incidents and the inability of the Fire Department to
respond within a reasonable time to fire alarms or calls for medical help could
result in a great loss of life and property.
         (e)   It is in the interest of the public health, safety and welfare
to resolve the cruising problem in order to provide freer access to such areas
by emergency vehicles and the general public.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein. When
not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future; words in the plural number include the singular; and words in the
singular number include the plural. The word “shall” is always mandatory and
not merely directory. In this section:
      CRUISE or CRUISING. To operate a motor vehicle, or to permit the
operation of a motor vehicle under one’s care, custody or control, so as to
pass the same traffic control point within a no cruising zone three times
within any two-hour period.
      TRAFFIC CONTROL POINT. Any point established by the Chief of Police
within a no cruising zone for the purpose of monitoring cruising.
   (D)   Violations. A person commits an offense under this section, if:
      (1)   Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 3:00 a.m., on any day of the
week; and
      (2)   He or she cruises, as defined herein.
   (E)   Enforcement. A citation shall be issued under this section any time
after a police officer has determined that the driver of a vehicle has passed a
traffic control point more than three times within a two-hour period.
   (F)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to
prosecution under this section that the motor vehicle was:
      (1)   Owned by a municipality, a county, the state or the United States
government;
      (2)   An emergency or conspicuously marked public safety vehicle;
      (3)   A licensed public transportation vehicle; or
      (4)   A vehicle being used for business purposes and verification of this
business was provided.
   (G)   Demarcation of the “no cruising zone.”
      (1)   The City Traffic Engineer shall mark a “no cruising zone” by
conspicuously posting appropriate signs at each entrance to the zone.
      (2)   A “no cruising zone” requiring demarcation shall consist of an area
described in division (C) above.
Penalty, see §
70.999
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES, SIGNS AND SIGNALS
§ 70.030  EXISTENCE OF OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICE PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE
THAT DEVICE WAS ERECTED PURSUANT TO PROPER AND LAWFUL AUTHORITY.
   Proof of the existence within the city of an official traffic-control device
regulating any part of any street or highway, including any part of any
freeway, shall be prima facie evidence that such official traffic-control
device was erected or placed by and at the direction of personnel duly and
lawfully authorized to do so, in accordance with the applicable provisions of
state statute and this chapter.
§ 70.031  OBEDIENCE TO AND REQUIRED TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle and the motorman of any streetcar shall obey
the instructions of any official traffic-control device applicable thereto
placed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, unless otherwise
directed by a traffic or police officer, subject to the exceptions granted the
driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this chapter.
   (B)   No provision of this chapter for which official traffic-control
devices are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at the
time and place of the alleged violation an official device is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that official traffic-control
devices are required, such section shall be effective even though no devices
are erected or in place.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 544.004
§ 70.032  TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL LEGEND.
   (A)   Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting
different colored lights or colored lighted arrows, successively one at a time
or in combination, only the colors green, red and yellow shall be used, except
for special pedestrian signals carrying a word legend, and said lights shall
indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
      (1)   Green indication.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a circular green signal may proceed
straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at such place prohibits
either such turn. But vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or
left, shall yield the right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians
lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such
signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Vehicular traffic facing a green arrow signal, shown alone or in
combination with another indication, may cautiously enter the intersection only
to make the movement indicated by such arrow, or such other movement as is
permitted by other indications shown at the same time. Such vehicular traffic
shall yield the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within an adjacent
crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the intersection.
         (c)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal, as
provided in §
70.039 pedestrians facing any green signal, except when the sole green signal
is a turn arrow, may proceed across the roadway within any marked or unmarked
crosswalk.
      (2)   Steady yellow indication.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby
warned that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red
indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic
shall not enter the intersection.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal, unless otherwise
directed by a pedestrian control signal as provided in §
70.039, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time to cross the
roadway before a red indication is shown and no pedestrian shall then start to
cross the roadway.
      (3)   Steady red indication.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing a steady red signal alone shall stop at
a clearly marked stop line, but, if none, before entering the crosswalk on the
near side of the intersection, and, unless prohibited by a traffic-control
sign, may then turn right or, if the intersecting streets are both one-way
streets and left turns are permissible, may turn left, after standing until the
intersection may be entered safely, yielding right-of-way to pedestrians
lawfully within an adjacent crosswalk and to other traffic lawfully using the
intersection. Traffic not so turning shall remain standing until an indication
to proceed is shown. The city, within its jurisdiction, may prohibit such turns
on a steady red signal by posting a notice that turns of that type are
prohibited. Such notice shall be erected at such intersection giving notice
thereof.
         (b)   Unless otherwise directed by a pedestrian control signal,
pedestrians facing a steady red signal alone shall not enter the roadway.
   (B)   In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and
maintained at a place other than an intersection, the provisions of this
section shall be applicable except as to those provisions which by their nature
can have no application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking
on the pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of
any such sign or marking the stop shall be made at the signal.
   (C)   The motorman of any streetcar shall obey the above signals as
applicable to vehicles.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 544.007
§ 70.033  INTERSECTIONS WHERE STOP REQUIRED; TO BE DESIGNATED BY CITY TRAFFIC
ENGINEER.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine and designate
intersections where particular hazard exists and to determine whether vehicles
shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop intersection, and shall
erect a stop sign at every such place where a stop is required.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to designate stop streets, see Tex. Transportation Code
Ch. 544
§ 70.034  SIGNS TO BEAR THE WORD “STOP.”
   Every sign erected pursuant to the preceding section shall bear the word
“stop” in letters not less than six inches in height and such sign shall at
nighttime be rendered luminous by steady or flashing internal illumination, or
by a fixed floodlight projected on the face of the sign, or by efficient
reflecting elements on the face of the sign. Every stop sign shall be located
as near as practicable at the nearest line of the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection or, if none, at the nearest line of the roadway.
§ 70.035  YIELD SIGNS; AUTHORIZED.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine and designate
intersections where a particular hazard exists and to determine whether
vehicles on one of the intersecting streets yield the right-of-way to vehicles
on the other street and to erect a “YIELD” sign at every place where need is
determined for such a sign.
§ 70.036  YIELD SIGNS; REQUIREMENTS.
   Every sign erected pursuant to §
70.035 shall bear the message “YIELD.” Such signs shall at nighttime be
rendered luminous by steady or internal flashing illumination, or by a fixed
floodlight projected on the face of the sign or by efficient reflecting
elements covering the entire face of the sign.
§ 70.037  FLASHING SIGNALS.
   (A)   Whenever an illuminated flashing red or yellow signal is used in a
traffic sign or signal it shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as
follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated with
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop at a clearly marked
stop line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway
before entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to
the rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through an
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
   (B)   This section does not apply at railroad grade crossings. Conduct of
drivers of vehicles approaching railroad grade crossings shall be governed by
the rules as set forth in §
70.031 of this chapter.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 544.008
§ 70.038  OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF RAILROAD TRAIN.
   (A)   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within 50 feet, but not less than 15 feet from the
nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he or she can do so
safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      (1)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives
warning of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      (2)   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      (3)   A railroad engine approaching within approximately 1,500 feet of
the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such distance and such
railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing, is an
immediate hazard; and
      (4)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in
hazardous proximity to such crossing.
   (B)   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad grade crossing while such gate or
barrier is closed or is being opened or closed.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.039  PEDESTRIAN CONTROL SIGNALS.
   Whenever special pedestrian control signals exhibiting the words “Walk,”
“Don’t Walk” or “Wait” are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows.
   (A)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
   (B)   Don’t walk or wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in
the direction of such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed
his or her crossing on the “Walk” signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety
island while the “Don’t Walk” or “Wait” signal is showing.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 552.002
§ 70.040  EMERGENCY AMBER SIGNAL LIGHTS; OPERATION OF VEHICLES WHEN LIGHTS ON.
   A steady amber traffic-control light of a duration in excess of five seconds
shall constitute an emergency signal. All drivers of motor vehicles approaching
an intersection where an emergency signal is being displayed shall immediately
drive such vehicles to a position as near as possible and parallel to the
right-hand edge or curb of the street before entering the intersection, and
shall remain in such a position until a green or “Go” signal is shown.
§ 70.041  DISPLAY OF UNAUTHORIZED SIGNS, SIGNALS OR MARKINGS.
   (A)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of an official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal.
   (B)   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
   (C)   No person shall place or maintain a flashing light or flashing
electric sign of any kind or color within 1,000 feet of any intersection unless
a permit is granted by the state highway and public transportation commission
for such flashing light or electric sign.
   (D)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon private
property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional information
and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
   (E)   In addition to being a misdemeanor as set out in §
70.999, every such prohibited sign, signal, light or marking is hereby declared
to be a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway
is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without
notice.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 544.006
§ 70.042  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES OR RAILROAD SIGNS
OR SIGNALS.
   No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
railroad sign or signal or any inscription, shield or insignia thereof, or any
other part thereof.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 544.005
§ 70.043  PROOF REQUIRED IN PROSECUTION.
   In any prosecution for any violation of this chapter, it shall not be
necessary for the state to prove the installation or authority therefor, of any
sign or traffic-control device. Any person charged with a violation of this
chapter shall have the right to prove the sign, signal or traffic-control
device was not so installed or authorized as a defense.
OPERATION OF VEHICLES
§ 70.055  DRIVE ON RIGHT SIDE OF ROADWAY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing such movement;
      (2)   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the left
of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway restricted to one-way traffic.
   (B)   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal speed
of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing shall
be driven in the right-hand lane then available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   (C)   Upon any roadway having four or more lanes for moving traffic and
providing for two-way movement of traffic, no vehicle shall be driven to the
left of the centerline of the roadway, except when authorized by official
traffic-control devices designating certain lanes to the left side of the
center of the roadway for use by traffic not otherwise permitted to use such
lanes, or except as permitted under division (A)(2) of this section. However,
this division (C) shall not be construed as prohibiting the crossing of the
centerline in making a left turn into or out of an alley, private road or
driveway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 545.051
§ 70.056  OVERTAKING A VEHICLE ON THE LEFT.
   The following rules shall govern the overtaking and passing of vehicles
proceeding in the same direction, subject to those limitations, exceptions and
special rules hereinafter stated.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
   (B)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code §§ 545.053 through 545.055
§ 70.057  WHEN OVERTAKING ON THE RIGHT IS PERMITTED.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
      (1)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left turn;
      (2)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied by
parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles in
each direction; and
      (3)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction or movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon the
right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the main-traveled portion of the
roadway except as provided in Tex. Revised Civil Statutes Article 6701d, § 54A.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code §§ 545.056, 545.057
§ 70.058  LIMITATIONS ON OVERTAKING ON THE LEFT.
   (A)   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless authorized by the provisions of this chapter and unless such
left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient
distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made
without interfering with the operation of any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In every event the overtaking
vehicle must return to an authorized lane of travel as soon as practicable and
in the event the passing movement involves the use of a lane authorized for
vehicles approaching from the opposite direction, before coming within 200 feet
of any approaching vehicle.
   (B)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the roadway
under the following conditions:
      (1)   Where sight restriction is such that the section of highway being
traversed lies within a no passing zone as determined and marked in accordance
with Tex. Transportation Code Title 7;
      (2)   When approaching within 100 feet of or traversing any intersection
or railroad grade crossing;
      (3)   When approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct or tunnel;
and
      (4)   When awaiting access to a ferry operated by the state highway
commission.
   (C)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway, nor
to any driver of a vehicle turning left into or from an alley, private roadway
or driveway.
   (D)   The state highway and public transportation commission shall post
signs along the approach to any ferry operated by it notifying motorists that
passing is prohibited when there is a standing line of vehicles awaiting access
to the ferry.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code §§ 545.056 and 545.057
§ 70.059  VEHICLES ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop as required by Tex. Transportation Code § 544.010 and
after having stopped shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle which has
entered the intersection from another highway or which is approaching so
closely on said highway as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time
when such driver is moving across or within the intersection.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to
such sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and shall
yield the right-of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on
another highway so closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time
such driver is moving across or within the intersection; provided, however,
that, if such a driver is involved in a collision with a vehicle in the
intersection, after driving past a yield sign without stopping, such collision
shall be deemed prima facie evidence of his or her failure to yield right-of-
way.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 545.153
§ 70.060  RIGHT TURNS FROM BUS LANES.
   Unless a different method of turning is prescribed by law or directed by an
official traffic-control device, in which event turning shall be made in
accordance with such law or with the directions of such device, the approach
for a right turn shall not be begun or made in a bus lane designated as such by
an official traffic-control device prior to the midway point of that block
preceding the corner at which such right turn is to be executed.
§ 70.061  RIGHT-OF-WAY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection of a different
street or roadway shall stop, yield and grant the privilege of immediate use of
such intersection in obedience to any stop sign, yield right-of-way sign or
traffic-control device erected by public authority, and after so stopping, may
only proceed thereafter when such driver may safely enter the intersection
without interference or collision with traffic using such different street or
roadway.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle on a single lane street or roadway, or a
street or roadway consisting of only two traffic lanes, upon approaching the
intersection, not otherwise controlled by traffic signs or signals, of a
divided street or roadway, or of a street or roadway divided into three or more
marked traffic lanes, shall stop, yield and grant the privilege of immediate
use of such intersection to vehicles on such other street which are within the
intersection or approaching such intersection in such proximity thereto as to
constitute a hazard and after so stopping may only proceed thereafter when such
driver may safely enter the intersection without interference or collision with
traffic using such different street or roadway.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle on an unpaved street or roadway approaching
the intersection of a paved roadway shall stop, yield and grant the privilege
of immediate use of such intersection to any vehicle on such paved roadway
which is within the intersection or approaching such intersection in such
proximity thereto as to constitute a hazard, and after so stopping may only
proceed thereafter when such driver may safely enter the intersection without
interference or collision with traffic using such paved street or roadway.
   (D)   Except as provided in division (E) of this section, the driver of a
vehicle approaching the intersection of a different street or roadway, not
otherwise regulated herein, or controlled by traffic- control signs or signals,
shall stop, yield and grant the privilege of immediate use of such intersection
to any other vehicle which has entered the intersection from such driver’s
right or is approaching such intersection from such driver’s right in such
proximity thereto as to constitute a hazard and after so stopping may only
proceed thereafter when such driver may safely enter such intersection without
interference or collision with traffic using such different street or roadway.
   (E)   The driver of a vehicle approaching the intersection of a street or
roadway from a street or roadway which terminates at the intersection, not
otherwise regulated in this section or controlled by traffic-control signs or
signals, shall stop, yield and grant the privilege of immediate use of the
intersection to another vehicle which has entered the intersection from the
other street or roadway or is approaching the intersection on the other street
or roadway in such proximity as to constitute a hazard and after stopping may
only proceed when the driver may safely enter the intersection without
interference or collision with the traffic using the other street or roadway.
   (F)   A driver obligated to stop and yield the right-of-way in accord with
divisions (A) through (E) of this section who is involved in a collision or
interference with other traffic at such intersection is presumed not to have
yielded the right-of-way as required by this chapter.
   (G)   The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an
intersection or into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is within
the intersection or so close thereto as to constitute an immediate hazard.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code §§ 545.151 through 545.153
§ 70.062  U-TURNS.
   (A)   When restricted. U-turns are restricted as follows.
      (1)   Midblock. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction or to make a 180-
degree turn on any street between street intersections, except on divided
roadways where median openings are provided for such movements.
      (2)   Signalized intersections. It shall be unlawful for the driver of
any vehicle to turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction or
make a 180-degree turn at any intersection where traffic is controlled by
signal lights, except at intersections on divided roadways during the left-turn
signal phase.
   (B)   When prohibited. At no time shall U-turns be permitted, either at
intersections or median openings, where signs prohibiting such movements are
erected.
   (C)   Required conditions. At no time shall U-turns be made unless such
movement can be made in safety and without backing or otherwise interfering
with other traffic.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.063  LIMITATIONS ON BACKING; GENERALLY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any shoulder or
roadway of any controlled-access highway.
   (C)   In no event shall this section be construed in such a manner as to
permit the backing of a motor vehicle into or across an intersection of public
streets or to permit the backing of a motor vehicle so as to turn it from a
street into an intersecting street.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.064  SIGNAL ON BACKING.
   Before backing, ample warning shall be given, and while backing unceasing
vigilance shall be exercised by the driver not to injure those behind.
§ 70.065  EMERGING FROM ALLEY, DRIVEWAY OR BUILDING.
   The driver of a vehicle within a business or residence district emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior
to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway or driveway, and shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian as may
be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the
right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on such roadway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 545.155
§ 70.066  STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal
indication to proceed.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.067  STARTING AND TURNING AND SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING.
   (A)   Required position and method of turning at intersections. The driver
of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows:
      (1)   Right turns. Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      (2)   Left turns. The driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any
intersection shall approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane
lawfully available to traffic moving in the direction of travel of such
vehicle, and, after entering the intersection, the left turn shall be made so
as to leave the intersection in a lane lawfully available to traffic moving in
such direction upon the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the left
turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection.
      (3)   Placement of official traffic-control devices. The state highway
and public transportation commission and the city may cause official traffic-
control devices to be placed within or adjacent to intersections and thereby
require and direct that a different course from that specified in this section
be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection, and when such devices are
so placed no driver of a vehicle shall turn a vehicle at an intersection other
than as directed and required by such devices.
   (B)   Starting parked vehicle. No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless and until such movement can be made with
safety.
   (C)   Turning movements and required signals. Turning movements and required
signals shall be as follows:
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the
vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in division (A)
above, or turn a vehicle to enter a private road or driveway, or otherwise turn
a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a roadway unless and
until such movement can be made with safety. Except under conditions set out in
Tex. Revised Civil Statutes Article 6701d,  § 24(a), no person shall so turn
any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner hereinafter
provided.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
such signal.
      (4)   The signals provided for in division (D) of this section shall be
used to indicate an intention to turn, change lanes or start from a parked
position and shall not be flashed on one side only on a parked or disabled
vehicle, or flashed as a courtesy or “do pass” signal to operators of other
vehicles approaching from the rear.
   (D)   Signals by hand and arm or signal lamps. Signals by hand and arm or
signal lamps shall be given as follows:
      (1)   Any stop or turn signal when required herein shall be given either
by means of the hand and arm or by signal lamps, except as otherwise provided
in division (D)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Any motor vehicle in use on a highway shall be equipped with, and
required signal shall be given by, signal lamps when the distance from the
center of the top of the steering post to the left outside limit of the body,
cab or load of such motor vehicle exceeds 24 inches, or when the distance from
the center of the top of the steering post to the rear limit of the body or
load thereof exceeds 14 feet. The latter measurement shall apply to any single
vehicle, also to any combination of vehicles.
   (E)   Method of giving hand-and-arm signals.
      (1)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and such signals
shall indicate as follows:
         (a)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
         (b)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
         (c)   Stop or decrease speed. Hand and arm extended downward.
      (2)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the
hand-and-arm, or by a signal lamp or signal device approved by the Department.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code §§ 545.101 through 545.107
§ 70.068  OPERATION OF VEHICLES AND STREET CARS ON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED
EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of Tex. Revised
Civil Statutes Article 6701d, § 124, or of a police vehicle properly and
lawfully making use of an audible signal only:
      (1)   The driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and
shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to,
the right-hand edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection and shall
stop and remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has
passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer; and
      (2)   Upon the approach of an authorized emergency vehicle, as above
stated, the motorman of every streetcar shall immediately stop such car clear
of any intersection and keep it in such position until the authorized emergency
vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 541.156
§ 70.069  AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES TO HAVE RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Police, fire department, public service companies, United States mail
vehicles, ambulances and other authorized emergency vehicles shall have the
right-of-way on any street and through any procession, when in the regular
course of their proper duty.
§ 70.070  INTERFERENCE WITH AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   Any person who shall interfere with any of the vehicles named in the
foregoing section, when the same are in the regular course of their proper
duties, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the penalties
herein imposed.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.071  USE RESTRICTED OF FREEWAYS TO AUTOMOTIVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No vehicle except of the automotive type shall be driven upon or
operated upon any freeway.
   (B)   The use of any freeway by pedestrians, bicyclists and equestrians is
prohibited. This restriction and prohibition shall apply to the shoulders and
median strips of the freeways, as well as to the pavement surface.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.072  DIRECTION OF TRAVEL ON FREEWAYS; ENTRANCES AND EXITS; CROSSING MEDIAN
PROHIBITED; PARKING PROHIBITED.
   The direction of travel of vehicles on each freeway shall be one way only as
determined and indicated by the City Traffic Engineer. It shall be unlawful for
the driver of any vehicle to enter a freeway at any place other than a
designated entrance or to leave a freeway at any place other than a designated
exit, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive same
across the median or center strip of any freeway. It shall be unlawful and a
violation hereof for the driver or owner of any vehicle to park his or her
vehicle or to permit the same to be parked, stand or remain on any portion of a
freeway.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.073  OPERATION OF VEHICLES EXCEPT CERTAIN BUSES AND BICYCLES IN BUS LANES
PROHIBITED; CERTAIN BUS LANES DESIGNATED.
   (A)   Except for turning as provided in §
70.060, a person commits an offense if he or she operates a vehicle which is
not a bus of the public bus transportation system or a bicycle in any portion
of a roadway designated as a bus lane by an official traffic-control device.
   (B)   Where a bus lane is designated in any portion of a roadway as a bus-
bicycle lane, bicycles may be operated within such lane.
   (C)   In addition to any bus lanes established by the City Traffic Engineer,
as authorized in this chapter, each of the following is designated as a bus
lane:
      Houston Street. The westernmost lane between the south curb line of
Belknap Street and the north curb line of West Lancaster Street.
      Throckmorton Street. The easternmost lane between the north curb line of
West Lancaster Street and the south curb line of West Belknap Street.
§ 70.074  ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The City Traffic Engineer is authorized to determine and designate any
street or portion of a street as a “one-way” street on which driving is
prohibited in one direction and permitted in the opposite direction, and to
place or erect official traffic-control devices indicating same.
§ 70.075  SPEEDING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle on a
street or highway at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the
circumstances then existing.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate a vehicle at
such a slow speed as to impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic
except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with
law.
   (C)   Any speed is lawful which is less than the prima facie maximum
reasonable and prudent speed for the location, yet greater than any prima facie
minimum reasonable and prudent speed for the location, but any speed in excess
of such maximum or less than such minimum shall be prima facie evidence that
the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful.
   (D)   It shall be an exception to division (C) if a person operates a
vehicle at a speed slower than the prima facie minimum reasonable and prudent
speed for the location, in order to comply with Tex. Transportation Code §
545.351(c)(1) through (5), as amended, where there exists a hazard named
therein.
   (E)   If the prima facie maximum reasonable and prudent speeds specified by
Tex. Transportation Code § 545.352, as amended, have been superseded by prima
facie maximum or minimum reasonable and prudent speeds established by the city,
one or more appropriate signs giving notice of the city established speed must
be erected at the location(s). 
   (F)   Where no prima facie maximum reasonable and prudent speed requiring
the erection of one or more appropriate signs giving notice has been
established for a public street or highway within the city urban district, the
prima facie maximum reasonable and prudent speed for such location shall be 30
mph as specified by Tex. Transportation Code § 545.352, as amended, unless a
slower speed is required by § 545.351, as amended, where there exists a special
hazard named therein.
Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.076  OBSTRUCTION TO DRIVER’S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM.
   (A)   No person shall drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there
are in the front seat such a number of persons, exceeding three, as to obstruct
the view of the driver to the front or sides of the vehicle or as to interfere
with the driver’s control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar shall ride in such position as
to interfere with the driver’s or motorman’s view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his or her control over the driving mechanism of the vehicle or
streetcar.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see V.A.C.S. Art. 6701d, § 175
§ 70.077  FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY.
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not follow another more closely than is
reasonable and prudent, having due regard to the speed of such vehicle and the
traffic upon and condition of the roadway.
   (B)   The driver of any motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle
when traveling upon a roadway outside of a business or residential district and
which is following another motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle
shall whenever conditions permit leave sufficient space so that an overtaking
vehicle may enter and occupy such space without danger, except that this shall
not prevent a motor truck or motor vehicle drawing another vehicle from
overtaking and passing any like vehicle or other vehicle.
   (C)   The drivers of motor vehicles driven upon any roadway outside of a
business or residential district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not
towing other vehicles shall drive so as to allow sufficient space between each
such vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicles to
enter and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to
funeral processions.
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see V.A.C.S. Art. 6701d, § 61
§ 70.078  DRIVING ON DIVIDED HIGHWAYS.
   Whenever any highway has been divided into two or more roadways by leaving
an intervening space or by a physical barrier or clearly indicated dividing
section so constructed as to impede vehicular traffic, every vehicle shall be
driven only upon the right-hand roadway unless directed or permitted to use
another roadway by official traffic-control devices or police officers. No
vehicle shall be driven over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier
or section, except through an opening in such physical barrier or dividing
section or space or at a crossover or intersection as established by public
authority.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see V.A.C.S. Art. 6701d, § 62
§ 70.079  DRIVING THROUGH PROCESSIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to drive between the
vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession when such vehicles
are in motion and are conspicuously designated. This provision shall not apply
to intersections where traffic is controlled by police officers.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate processions, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch.
544
§ 70.080  DRIVING UPON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall drive any motor vehicle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area
except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary driveway.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see V.A.C.S. Art. 6701d, § 187
§ 70.081  RECKLESS DRIVING.
   No person shall drive any vehicle in willful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see V.A.C.S. Art. 6701d, § 51
§ 70.082  FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS OR AMBULANCE.
   (A)   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall
not follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than
500 feet or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where the fire
apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
   (B)   No driver of a vehicle, except a driver on official business, may
follow closer than 500 feet behind an ambulance when the flashing red lights of
the ambulance are operating. No driver of a vehicle may drive or park his or
her vehicle at a place where an ambulance has been summoned for an emergency
call in a manner calculated to interfere with the arrival or departure of the
ambulance.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see V.A.C.S. Art. 6701d, § 100
§ 70.083  CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No driver of a streetcar or vehicle shall drive over an unprotected hose of
the fire department when laid down on any street, private driveway or street
car track, to be used at any fire or alarm of fire, without consent of the Fire
Department official in command.
Penalty, see §
70.999
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see V.A.C.S. Art. 6701d, § 101
§ 70.084  SAFE PASSING OF VULNERABLE ROAD USERS.
   (A)   Definitions. In this section, a VULNERABLE ROAD USER means:
      (1)   A pedestrian (including a runner), physically disabled person,
child, skater, stranded motorist or passenger, highway construction or
maintenance worker, tow truck operator, utility worker or other worker with
legitimate business in or near the road or right-of-way;
      (2)   A person on horseback;
      (3)   A person operating equipment other than a motor vehicle, including,
but not limited to, a bicycle, handcycle, horse-driven conveyance or
unprotected farm equipment;
      (4)   A person operating a motorcycle, moped, motor-driven cycle or
motor-assisted scooter; or
      (5)   A firefighter or peace officer whose vehicle is equipped with
emergency lights that are activated, regardless of whether it is a marked
vehicle.
   (B)   Safe passing. An operator of a motor vehicle passing a vulnerable road
user, who is either traveling or stationary on a highway or street, shall:
      (1)   Vacate the lane nearest to or in which the vulnerable road user is
located if the highway or street has two or more marked lanes running in the
same direction; or
      (2)   Pass the vulnerable road user at a safe distance.  For the purpose
of this division, when road conditions allow, safe distance is at least:
         (a)   Three feet from the vulnerable road user if the operator’s
vehicle is a passenger car or light truck, as defined by Tex. Transportation
Code § 541.201(7); or
         (b)   Six feet from the vulnerable road user if the operator’s vehicle
is a truck, other than a light truck, or a commercial motor vehicle as defined
by Tex. Transportation Code § 522.003.
   (C)   Throwing or projecting any object or substance. An occupant of a motor
vehicle may not knowingly throw or project any object or substance at or
against a vulnerable user, or the user’s animal, equipment or vehicle.
   (D)   Maneuvering the vehicle. An occupant of a motor vehicle may not
maneuver the vehicle in a manner that:
      (1)   Is intended to cause intimidation or harassment to a vulnerable
road user; or
      (2)   Is reckless and which causes a collision with any vulnerable road
user on any roadway or intersection. This includes a collision caused by
opening a motor vehicle’s door into the path of a vulnerable road user or the
user’s animal or equipment.
   (E)   Affirmative defense. It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under
this section that, at the time of the offense, the vulnerable road user was
acting in violation of any applicable traffic laws.
   (F)   Exception. This section does not apply to conduct or injuries
sustained on private property.
Penalty, see §
70.999
BICYCLES AND MOTOR-ASSISTED SCOOTERS
§ 70.095  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with two wheels designed to transport, by a
pedaling action, a person seated on a seat.
   CHILD. Any individual less than 16 years of age.
   HELMET. Properly-fitted headgear that is not structurally damaged and that
conforms to the standards or the American National Standards Institute, the
American Society for Testing and Materials, the Snell Memorial Foundation or
any federal agency having regulatory jurisdiction over bicycle helmets at the
time of the manufacture of the helmet.
   MOTORIZED SCOOTER. A self-propelled device with at least two wheels in
contact with the ground during operation, which may have a gas or electric
motor of 40 cubic centimeters or less, and which is designed to allow a person
to stand or sit while operating the device, and has the ability to be propelled
by human power alone.
   PARENT. The natural or adoptive parent, court-appointed guardian or
conservator of the child.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any property located within the city that is publicly owned or
maintained, including, but limited to, a publicly-owned or maintained street,
access road, highway or alley.
   WEARING A HELMET. Properly-fitted headgear is properly attached to a
person’s head with the chinstraps of a helmet securely fastened and tightened
in the manner intended by the manufacturer to provide maximum protection.
(Ord. 51705, passed 5-17-2005)
§ 70.096  HELMET REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any child less than 16 years of age to
operate or ride a bicycle or motorized scooter on any public way unless such
person is wearing a helmet.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any child less than 16 years of age to ride
in any sidecar, trailer, child carrier, seat or other device attached to a
bicycle or motorized scooter on any public way unless such child is wearing a
helmet.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian to allow or permit any
child less than 16 years of age to operate or ride a bicycle or motorized
scooter on any public way unless such child is wearing a helmet.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a parent or guardian to allow or permit any
child less than 16 years of age to ride in any sidecar, trailer, child carrier,
seat or other device attached to a bicycle or motorized scooter on any public
way unless such child is wearing a helmet.
(Ord. 51705, passed 5-17-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.097  PROHIBITED UNSAFE CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person traveling by bicycle or motorized
scooter to cling or attach himself or herself to any other moving vehicle on
any public way.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bicycle or motorized
scooter to carry more persons at one time than the number of persons for which
the bicycle or motorized scooter was originally designed and equipped.
(Ord. 51705, passed 5-17-2005)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.098  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter took effect immediately after its passage and publication as
the law provides.
(Ord. 51705, passed 5-17-2005)
VEHICLES CARRYING HAZARDOUS PRODUCTS
§ 70.110  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to park or cause to
be parked at any place within the city limits any motor vehicle, motor truck,
trailer or other vehicle having thereon, or attached thereto, a tank or tanks
or other receptacle used for the carrying of butane, propane, methane, octane,
pentane or any other kind of liquified petroleum or natural gas products,
whether loaded, partially loaded or empty of such liquified petroleum products,
except as follows:
   (A)   When any such truck, motor vehicle or trailer is outside the Fire Zone
of the city and has broken down, has a flat tire or tires or becomes out of
repair or out of gasoline for its own propulsion to the extent that it cannot
be propelled with its own power; providing, the driver of such motor vehicle
shall immediately notify the Sheriff of the county, the city police or the
State Highway Department of such forced stoppage and, if such vehicle as above
described can be repaired within a period of 30 minutes, then such repairs can
be made where such vehicle has been forced to stop; providing that, during such
period of repair or repairs, a police officer or someone designated by him or
her remains at such place of stoppage to warn other persons using the highway,
street, avenue or premises of such danger;
   (B)   When any such truck, motor vehicle or trailer is making delivery of
butane or other liquified petroleum gas to users within the city limits, but
not within the Fire Zone of said city, and then with prompt dispatch and upon
notice to said property owner and after instructing said owner to cut off all
fires, and that no smoking shall be done on the premises; providing that, said
delivery shall be made without unusual delay; and
   (C)   When such truck, motor vehicle or trailer is parked outside the Fire
Zone of the said city and is being used for residential purposes and has stored
therein such gas for its own use and not otherwise.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1951)  Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in this chapter the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, where no specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any
such provision of this chapter shall be subject to punishment as provided in §
10.99 of this code; provided, however, if the maximum penalty provided by this
chapter for any such offense is greater than the maximum penalty provided for
the same or a similar offense under the laws of the state, then the maximum
penalty for violation as provided by state statute shall be the maximum penalty
under this chapter.
   (B)   A person determined to be in violation of §
70.020 shall be fined, upon conviction, not less than $50 and not more than
$500.
   (C)   To the extent that the conduct is not already covered by the Texas
Penal or Transportation Codes:
      (1)   The penalty for any violation of §
70.084 that causes injury to a vulnerable road user shall be a fine not to
exceed $500.
      (2)   The penalty for violations of §
70.084(C) or (D) which do not result in injury shall be a fine not to exceed
$500.
      (3)   The penalty for any violation of §
70.084 other than of divisions (C) and (D) which does not cause injury to a
vulnerable road user shall be a fine not to exceed $200.
   (D)   Any person convicted of any violation of §§
70.095 through
70.098 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be
penalized by a fine of no more than $500. Upon the first offense only, the fine
may be waived if the person owns or has acquired a helmet prior to the court
hearing and promises the court that the helmet will be used in the future.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
70.110 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be fined in any amount not to exceed $200. Each violation shall be
a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 8-9-1951; Ord. 51705, passed 5-17-2005)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 542
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Use of toy or recreational vehicles
   
III.   Weight of vehicles
   
IV.   Pedestrian crossings
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Art. 6701d, § 169(b), provides that whenever the
governing body of the city shall determine, upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation, that any prima facie speed therein set forth is
greater or less than is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist
at any intersection or other place or upon any part of a street or highway with
the city, taking into consideration the width and condition of the pavement and
other circumstances on such portion of said street or highway, as well as the
usual traffic thereon, said governing body may determine and declare a
reasonable and safe prima facie speed limit threat or thereon by the passage of
an ordinance, which shall be effective when appropriate signs giving notice
thereof are erected on Business 80 through the city, the speed limit change
from 30 mph to 35 mph.
(Ord. 81908, passed 8-19-2008)
SCHEDULE II. USE OF TOY OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   All bicycles, skateboards, roller skates and other non-pedestrian forms of
transportation will not be allowed on any sidewalk from the alleys on each side
and including Market Street from First to Fourth Streets in the city. The
purpose of this schedule is to ensure the protection and safety of the
pedestrians, as well as the operator of such forms of transportation.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1990)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. WEIGHT OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   From and after the passage hereof, the following streets in the city
shall be closed to traffic for trucks with a weight of over two tons or truck-
trailers of over two tons, to-wit: on West 2nd Street from Market Street to
Eugenia Street; on Girard Street from 1st Street to 8th Street; and on Eugenia
Street from 1st Street to 8th Street.
   (B)   Any person violating this schedule shall, upon conviction thereof, be
fined in any sum not less than $1, nor more than $200, and each violation
thereof shall be and is hereby declared to be a distinct and separate offense
and punishable as such.
(Ord. passed 11-22-1977)
SCHEDULE IV. PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be illegal for any pedestrian to cross Market
Street in the city at any point other than within a marked crosswalk, or within
a continuation of imaginary lines being a continuation of any sidewalk running
parallel to Market Street or entering Market Street at right angles thereto.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this schedule shall,
upon conviction thereof, be fined in any sum not less than $100 and each
violation thereof shall be and hereby is declared to be a distinct and separate
offense and punishable as such.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1952)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
park, or cause to be parked, any vehicle on Market Street in the city, in the
center, or at any place on said street other than parked in accordance with
parking lines marked on said street so as to provide each vehicle with a
certain amount of space for the right front wheel of said vehicle to be resting
against the curb of said street.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions less
than $1, nor more than $100, and each violation thereof shall be and is hereby
declared to be a distinct and separate offense and punishable as such.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1952)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
91.   NOISE
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
93.   ANIMALS
CHAPTER 90:  HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
   
90.01   Popular name
   
90.02   Purpose
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   State provisions adopted
   
90.05   Prohibited acts constituting nuisances; exceptions
   
90.06   Notice to abate; service of notice; contents
   
90.07   Hearing on nuisance
   
90.08   Abatement; assessment of city’s expenses; billing; lien
   
90.09   Exceptions to notice and enforcement provisions
   
90.10   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  POPULAR NAME.
   This chapter shall be commonly referred to as the “City of Baird’s Health
and Safety Ordinance”.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 90.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety,
environment and general welfare of the citizens of the city through the
regulation of nuisances, junk vehicles and illegal dumping.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 90.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. City Marshal, peace officers, Fire Marshal, firefighters,
code enforcement officers, environmental enforcement officers, Public Health
Authority, City Mayor or City Secretary, or any of their designees, who
administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   FENCES IN DETERIORATED CONDITION. A fence that:
      (1)   Has broke, loose, damaged, removed or missing parts including, but
not limited to, pickets, slats, posts, wood rails, bricks and panels; or
      (2)   Is braced by guide wires, braces or any other material that may be
viewable from any public streets, rights-of-way, alleyways or property and
easements over which the city or general public has dominion and control.
   GRAFFITI. Any unauthorized inscription, word, signature, symbol, design or
other marking of any sort that is etched, written, painted, drawn or applied in
any other way to any structure, building, tree, vehicle or property of any sort
or to any portion or element thereof, whether the property is public or
private.
   IMPROVED PARKING SURFACE. Concrete, asphalt or any accepted all-weather base
material.
   NUISANCE. Any unlawful act, or omission to perform a duty, or any condition
or thing permitted to exist, where such act, omission, condition or thing:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, health, safety or welfare of
others;
      (2)   Offends decency;
      (3)   Is offensive to the senses;
      (4)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
path, alley, stream, ditch or drainage pathway;
      (5)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (6)   Interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and property, or
tends to diminish the quality of the property of others.
   VEHICLE. Cars, trucks, trailers, recreational vehicles, travel trailers,
boats or other watercraft or motorcycles.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 90.04  STATE PROVISIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   State’s junked motor vehicles provisions adopted. To prevent the
accumulation of abandoned or junked motor vehicles within the city, to
eliminate the health and safety hazards associated with said vehicles and to
abate the nuisances attributable to such vehicles, the city hereby adopts Tex.
Transportation Code Ch. 683, regarding junked motor vehicles, in its entirety
herein, and as amended, and it shall serve as the city’s ordinance for said
vehicles in addition to the provisions in this chapter.
   (B)   State Litter Abatement Act adopted. To prevent the illegal dumping
within the city, and to eliminate and abate the health and safety hazards
associated with and attributable to such illegal dumping, the city hereby
adopts Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 365, the state’s Litter Abatement Act,
in its entirety herein, and as amended, and it shall serve as the city’s
ordinance for illegal dumping in addition to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 90.05  PROHIBITED ACTS CONSTITUTING NUISANCES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited acts of conditions which constitute a nuisance. The
maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or remain
on any public or private property of any of the following items, conditions or
actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance and are therefor
prohibited and unlawful; provided, however, this list shall not be deemed or
construed to be conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
      (1)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation;
      (2)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber, stagnant water or of any object or matter that may
cause injury, death or disease to human beings;
      (3)   Any condition that provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes and
other vermin;
      (4)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a heightened fire hazard in the vicinity where it is
located;
      (5)   All excessive or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noise;
      (6)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches including dense smoke, noxious fumes,
gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable quantities;
      (7)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within 24 hours
after death;
      (8)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, industrial wastes or other substances;
      (9)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any
activity which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted,
performed or maintained;
      (10)   All appliances intended for indoor use, working or non-working,
used, stored, abandoned or junked anywhere in the public view;
      (11)   Dead, diseased or insect-harboring trees when such trees
constitute a hazard to life or property;
      (12)   Fences in a deteriorated condition or subject to falling down due
to lack of maintenance or damage or that are repaired with materials that are
not comparable to the original;
      (13)   Graffiti that is visible from public view or any private property
other than that on which the same exists;
      (14)   Excessive accumulation of items intended for use outdoors that are
not screened from the public view;
      (15)   Items on a porch, in a yard, under a carport or within any area
visible from the public view that are not intended for use outdoors or are not
made of material that is resistant to damage or deterioration from exposure to
outdoors;
      (16)   Furniture intended for indoor use that is used, stored, abandoned
or junked outside, including on a porch, in a yard or under a carport;
      (17)   Human waste or wastewater that is deposited, stored, discharged or
exposed in such a way as to be a potential instrument or medium in disease
transmission;
      (18)   Violations of Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 683, regarding junked
vehicles, and as amended;
      (19)   Grasses, weeds or brush at a height greater than 12 inches on any
lot, tract or parcel of land, including the adjacent parkway and alleys, unless
excepted by division (B) below;
      (20)   Vehicles in the yard of any residence excluding improved parking
surfaces, or areas screened from the public view by an opaque fence; and
      (21)   Violations of Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 365, regarding
illegal dumping, and as amended.
   (B)   Exceptions. Any provision in this chapter related to grasses, weeds or
brush shall not apply to the following areas:
      (1)   Certain portions of improved and unimproved creeks; drainage
channels; detention and retention ponds; borrow ditches; and any other
conveyances subject to water drainage that are maintained by the city;
      (2)   The portion of any lot, tract or parcel of land greater than five
acres, which is more than 50 feet from the curb of any street, the edge of
pavement or any traveled portion of a street or roadway; and
      (3)   Cultivated low-water use landscaping.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  NOTICE TO ABATE; SERVICE OF NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Notice to abate and service of notice. Except as otherwise provided in
this chapter, whenever a nuisance is found to exist, an administrator shall
give ten days’ written notice by certified mail or hand delivery with signed
receipt to the owner or occupant of the property upon which such nuisance
exists or to the person causing or maintain the nuisance. If the notice is
returned unclaimed by the U.S. post office, official action to abate such
nuisance shall be continued to a date not less than ten days from the date of
such return.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The notice to abate a nuisance shall contain:
      (1)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
      (2)   A general description of what constitutes the nuisance;
      (3)   An order to abate the nuisance within a stated time, which shall be
reasonable under the circumstances, or to request a public hearing before the
City Council within ten days after service of notice to abate the nuisance.
Request for a public hearing shall be in writing and shall be addressed to the
City Council; and
      (4)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for hearing is made within the prescribed time, an administrator may
assess penalties and/or abate such nuisance and assess the cost of abatement
against such person.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 90.07  HEARING ON NUISANCE.
   A public hearing must be held prior to the abatement of the nuisance by the
city only if such a hearing is requested by the owner or occupant of the
property upon which such nuisance exists or by the person causing or
maintaining the nuisance. The hearing shall be held before the City Council.
The City Council shall determine at the hearing whether or not a nuisance
exists. If a nuisance is found to exist, the City Council may order the
abatement of the nuisance and assess any penalties as provided for under this
chapter. Any ruling or order by the City Council at this hearing shall become
final unless appealed within ten days to a competent court of law of the state.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 90.08  ABATEMENT; ASSESSMENT OF CITY’S EXPENSES; BILLING; LIEN.
   (A)   General. Upon the failure of the person, firm or corporation upon whom
notice to abate a nuisance was served pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter to abate the same, or to request a hearing before the City Council, an
administrator may proceed to enter upon the property to abate such nuisance and
shall prepare a statement of costs incurred in the abatement thereof. An
administrator may also assess penalties allowed for violations of this chapter.
   (B)   Abatement of an immediate danger to health and safety. In the event of
an immediate danger to the health and safety of the public, an administrator
may go upon the property where the nuisance(s) is found, and abate or cause to
be abated such nuisance(s), without notice to the property owner. No later than
the tenth day after the date the administrator abates or causes to be abated
the nuisance(s) upon the property, the administrator shall send notice to the
property owner in the manner required by §
90.06(A) of this chapter. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the nuisance(s) that was found on the property;
      (2)   A statement that the nuisance(s) was abated by the city;
      (3)   An itemized statement of the costs and fees incurred by the city
for work done to abate the nuisance(s); and
      (4)   An explanation of the property owner’s right to request a hearing
before the City Council concerning the city’s abatement of such nuisance(s).
   (C)   Assessment of city’s expenses; billing. Expenses incurred due to the
action taken by the city to correct any violation coming under the nuisance
provisions of this chapter, including administrative costs and penalty charges,
shall be assessed against the owners of all outstanding interests in the lot or
parcel of land involved. An itemized bill of such costs will be mailed to each
such owner to the address shown in the records of the County Appraisal
District.
   (D)   City’s expenses declared lien. Any and all expenses incurred by the
city in the abatement of a nuisance under the provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a lien against the property upon which such nuisance existed, which
lien shall be filed, proven and collected as provided for by law. Such lien
shall be notice to all persons from the time of its recording and shall bear
interest at the highest legal rate thereafter until satisfied.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 90.09  EXCEPTIONS TO NOTICE AND ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Graffiti. Whenever graffiti is found to exist, the owner will have 30
days after notice under this chapter to remove all graffiti from the property
that is visible from the public view or from private property other than that
on which the same exists.
   (B)   High grasses, weeds or brush. When any violation of high grasses,
weeds or brush is found to exist, a notice by letter as allowed under this
chapter will be addressed to the owner of the property in question. If the
address of the property owner is unknown, then notice may be given by
publication one time in a local, daily newspaper of general circulation. The
property owner will have ten days from the date of the notice to correct the
violation. Annual notice may be given to the property owner any time during the
calendar year and no further notices shall be required for a period of one year
from the date of the notice.
   (C)   High grasses, weeds or brush in excess of 48 inches. In the event that
high grasses, weeds or brush are higher than 48 inches, the city may go upon
the property found in violation of this chapter and abate such violation
without notice to the property owner. No later than the tenth day after the
city causes the work to be done under this section, the city shall send notice
and a bill to the property owner by mail or personal delivery.
   (D)   Parking in the yard of a resident. In the event that a vehicle is not
parked on an improved surface in a residential yard, as required by this
chapter, a single notice may be given to the property owner and no further
notices shall be required for a period of one year from the date of the notice.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 90.10  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on the passage and approval of the City
Council and after publication as may be required by governing law.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Authority. An administrator shall have the power to administer and
enforce the provisions of this chapter and assess penalties as may be required
as allowed by governing law.
   (B)   Penalties. Any person or entity violating any provision of this
chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $40, nor more than $2,000.
Each day that a violation of this chapter continues after due notice shall
constitute a separate offense. Any person or entity in violation of this
chapter, having been assessed a fine for such violation, shall not be relieved
of any of the other enforcement provisions of this chapter such as abatement,
assessment of expenses and/or liens.
   (C)   Other remedies. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a waiver
of the city’s right to bring a civil action to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, and to seek remedies as allowed by law, including, but not limited to,
injunctive relief, civil damages and all other relief allowed by applicable
law.
   (D)   Criminal action. A violation of this chapter shall be a Class C
misdemeanor punishable under state law. After expiration of the ten-day period
given in a notice, the city may issue a misdemeanor citation for any violation
of this chapter and institute Municipal Court proceedings in connection
therewith. Prosecution in Municipal Court is in addition to other remedies
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 20130917B, passed 9-17-2013)
CHAPTER 91:  NOISE
Section
   
91.01   General provisions
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Restrictions
   
91.04   Exceptions
   
91.05   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Scope. This chapter applies to the control of sound levels from sound
equipment within or in close proximity of residential areas of the city.
   (B)   Overview. This chapter is designed to regulate sound levels from sound
equipment in order to allow the enforcement of noise regulations at times when
and by persons for whom noise meters are not available. A noise may be in
violation of other ordinances because it is disturbing to a reasonable person
of ordinary sensibilities or in violation of this chapter because it exceeds
the decibel level restrictions provided herein. If a noise violates more than
one ordinance, the violation will be enforced under whichever ordinance is most
applicable to the situation as determined by the Enforcement Officer of the
city.
(Ord. 101816, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 91.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECIBEL. The unit of measurement for sound pressure at a specified location
and measured by a sound level meter using an approved weighting network as
specified by the American National Standards Institute.
   SOUND EQUIPMENT. A loud speaker, public address system, amplification
system, musical instrument, radio or other sound producing device.
   SOUND LEVEL. The instantaneous sound pressure level measured in decibels and
obtained by the use of a sound level meter by the Enforcement Officer of the
city.
(Ord. 101816, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 91.03  RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Maximum sound levels. No person shall operate, use, cause or allow any
sound equipment adjacent to a residence within the city to exceed a sound level
in excess of 85 decibels at the property line of the complaining residence on
any day of the week between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Central
Standard Time.
   (B)   Method of sound level measurement. Sound level measurements shall be a
minimum of 30 seconds in duration. Decibel levels are measured from the
residential complainant's property line. Violations will be determined based on
the highest registered reading in that measurement period after notice and
failure to reduce the sound level to within 85 decibels or less.
(Ord. 101816, passed 10-18-2016) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   The following acts and sounds are excepted and exempt from the requirements
of this chapter:
   (A)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to an
emergency.
   (B)   The sound was produced by an authorized emergency vehicle.
   (C)   The sound was produced by emergency work necessary to restore public
utilities, or to restore property to a safe condition, or to protect persons or
property from imminent danger following fire, accident or natural disaster.
   (D)   The sound generated by a parade and spectators and participants on the
parade route during a city-approved parade.
   (E)   The sound generated from normal activities conducted on public
playgrounds and public or private school grounds, including but not limited to,
school athletic and school entertainment events.
   (F)   The sound generated by any activity that has been preempted by state
or federal law.
   (G)   The sound generated by any church or clock carillons, bells, or
chimes.
   (H)   The sound generated by spectators and participants of any outdoor
event, fireworks display, race, festival, or concert that was approved by the
city.
   (I)   The sound generated by any governmental body in the performance of a
governmental function.
   (J)   The sound generated by any other lawful activity that constitutes
protected expression pursuant to the First Amendment of the United States
Constitution. By this exception, it is not intended to restrict or extend the
rights of citizens to the valid expression of their rights and beliefs. Any
protected expression retains with it the responsibility to exercise such
expression with regard to the rights and sensibilities of others, and within
reasonable time and place limitations imposed by other legal standards.
(Ord. 101816, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 91.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced primarily by the Baird
Marshal's office or any other city approved enforcement officer.
(Ord. 101816, passed 10-18-2016)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person is responsible for sound
levels in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   An offense under this chapter is a Class C misdemeanor and is
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 per day.
   (C)   Each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
offense and may be punished separately.
(Ord. 101816, passed 10-18-2016)
CHAPTER 92:  FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Fire prevention and protection service fees
   
92.02   Burning waste and other items
   
92.03   Fire Zone
   
92.04   Arson reward
Fireworks
   
92.15   Definitions
   
92.16   Exceptions to applicability of subchapter
   
92.17   Possession, sale and the like; generally
   
92.18   Permit required
   
92.19   Application
   
92.20   Approval or refusal generally
   
92.21   Grounds for refusal
   
92.22   Appeals
   
92.23   Transfer; duration
   
92.24   Storage, use and handling of explosives, fireworks and pyrotechnic
materials
   
92.25   Revocation
   
92.26   Permit fee
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION SERVICE FEES.
   The city’s Volunteer Fire Department rendering services shall be authorized
to collect all fees for fire prevention and protection services and for other
public safety in emergency services. Such fees may include an income for all
equipment, materials, maintenance and overhead expenses and costs of whatever
nature which all constitutes full reimbursement to the city’s Volunteer Fire
Department for such services actually rendered.
(Ord. 2272007, passed 2-27-2007)
§ 92.02  BURNING WASTE AND OTHER ITEMS.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly ignite and burn, or knowingly cause to be
ignited and burned, or allow to be burned any brush, paper, trash or other
waste of any kind upon any premises within the limits of the city.
   (B)   The civil and criminal provisions of this section shall be enforced by
the City Marshal’s office or his or her designee. It shall be a violation for
anyone to interfere with the performance of the duties of the Police
Department.
   (C)   (1)   When any person is found in violation of any provision of the
codes or ordinances adopted by the city or of the laws of the state, an agent
or employee of the City Marshal’s Department may issue a citation to such
person which shall require the person to appear in court within the time
provided on the citation. The citation shall give the person at least ten days
to answer any charge of violation of any provision of the codes or ordinances
adopted by the city.
      (2)   Signing the citation shall only be a promise to appear and is not
an admission of guilt.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person, upon being issued any
citation, to give the city’s agent or employee a false name or address.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to fail to appear in Municipal Court within
the time provided in the citation; provided, the citation gave the person at
least ten days to answer any charge of violation of any provision of the codes
or ordinances adopted by the city.
      (5)   (a)   The following information shall be contained on the citation:
            1.   Name of the defendant;
            2.   Address of the defendant; and
            3.   Driver’s license or other identification.
         (b)   The following information may be included for informational
purposes, but shall not nullify any promise to appear:
            1.   Date of violation;
            2.   Place of violation;
            3.   Offense charged; and
            4.   Name of person issuing citation.
      (6)   Additional or other charges shall not be precluded by the issuance
of citation.
   (D)   The payment of a fine to the Municipal Court shall be deemed an
acknowledgment of conviction of the alleged offense, and the Municipal Court,
upon accepting the prescribed fine, shall issue a receipt to the violator
acknowledging payment thereof.
   (E)   This section shall be effective, after approval by the City Council,
on the tenth day after its last publication and such ordinance shall be
published once a week for two consecutive weeks in an newspaper generally
circulated in the city.
(Ord. 2202007, passed 2-27-2007)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  FIRE ZONE.
   (A)   The Fire Zone of the city is on Market Street from 1st Street to 4th
Street and from the alley on East and West Market Street.
   (B)   Each structure shall be a permanent building with concrete floor and
materials as follows:
      (1)   Attractive type metal with steel frames, or brick, rock or tile
walls;
      (2)   Walls shall be eight inches thick or shall be eight inches between
the building next to it;
      (3)   All wiring shall be in conduit with wire size to meet state code;
and
      (4)   All plumbing shall comply with the State Plumbing Code.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal and the City Secretary shall be the inspectors on the
buildings.
(Ord. passed 11-24-1986)
§ 92.04  ARSON REWARD.
   The city does hereby offer and shall from henceforth offer and pay a reward
of $250 for the apprehension and conviction of any person or persons found
guilty of committing the crime of arson by setting fire to any house, building
or property of whatsoever character within the corporate limits of the city.
This reward is a standing offer and shall be paid out of the General Fund of
the city.
(Ord. passed 11-13-1962)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Undefined
terms shall be as defined in the Tex. Occupations Code Chapter 2154 and §
2154.001.
   DISTRIBUTOR.  A person who:
      (1)   Imports fireworks; or
      (2)   Sells fireworks to:
         (a)   A jobber, retainer or other distributor for resale; or
         (b)   A holder of a single public display permit, a multiple public
display permits or another fireworks permit.
   FIREWORKS.  A composition or device:
      (1)   Designed for entertainment to produce a visible or audible effect
by combustion, explosion, deflagration or detonation; and
      (2)   Defined by 49 C.F.R. 173.50(j).
   FIREWORKS 1.3G.  A large fireworks device:
      (1)   Primarily designed to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration or detonation; and
      (2)   Classified as a 1.3G explosive in 49 C.F.R. part 173.
   FIREWORKS 1.4G.  A small fireworks device:
      (1)   Primarily designed to produce visible or audible effects by
combustion, deflagration or detonation;
      (2)   That complies with the construction, labeling, and chemical
composition requirements of the United States Consumer Product Safety
Commission in 16 C.F.R. part 1507 or the most recently adopted version of that
rule; and
      (3)   That is classified 49 C.F.R. part 173.
   JOBBER.  A person who purchases fireworks only for resale to retailers.
   MANUFACTURER.  A person, firm, corporation or association who makes
fireworks.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY.  The igniting of fireworks 1.3G for public or private
amusement.
   PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR.  An individual who, by experience, training, and
examination, has demonstrated the necessary skill and ability for safely
assembling, discharging, and supervising public displays of FIREWORKS 1.3G or
FIREWORKS 1.4G.
   SALE.  Selling or offering for sale merchandise, equipment, or service, at
wholesale or retail, to the public or to any person, for an agreed sum of money
or other consideration.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.16  EXCEPTIONS TO APPLICABILITY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter does not apply to:
   (A)   A toy pistol, toy cane, toy gun, or other device that uses paper or
plastic caps in sheets, strips, rolls, or individual caps that contain not more
than an average of 25 hundredths of a grain of explosive composition per cap
and that is packed and shipped under 49 C.F.R. part 173;
   (B)   Novelties or tick noisemakers;
   (C)   The sale, at wholesale, of any type of fireworks by a resident
manufacturer, distributor, importer or jobber if the fireworks are intended for
shipment directly out of state;
   (D)   The sale or use of, in emergency situations, pyrotechnic signaling
devices or distress signals for aviation or highway use;
   (E)   The use of a fuse or a railway torpedo by a railroad;
   (F)   The sale of blank cartridges for:
      (1)   Use in a radio, television, film or theater production;
      (2)   A signal or ceremonial purpose in an athletic event; or
      (3)   An industrial purpose; or
   (G)   The use of a pyrotechnic device by a military organization.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.17  POSSESSION, SALE AND THE LIKE; GENERALLY.
   No person may possess, use, manufacture, sell or give away fireworks, or
store fireworks, unless:
   (A)   The fireworks are stored, possessed or used for permitted public
display purposes; and
   (B)   All other requirements of this subchapter are satisfied.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.18  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person may store, possess or use fireworks without first obtaining a
permit for that purpose from the city.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.19  APPLICATION.
   An applicant for a permit under this subchapter shall, before using
fireworks, file with the city a completed permit application showing the:
   (A)   Pyrotechnist’s:
      (1)   Name, contact persons and business address;
      (2)   Proof of legal competency; and
      (3)   Record of previous experience with fireworks;
   (B)   Location of the proposed display;
   (C)   Amount, type and class of fireworks to be used;
   (D)   Name and address of the company supplying the fireworks;
   (E)   Date of proposed display;
   (F)   Starting and ending times of the proposed display;
   (G)   Diagram of the proposed display grounds, detailing:
      (1)   Firing points;
      (2)   Location of buildings and highways on or adjoining the grounds;
      (3)   Spectator restraining lines; and
      (4)   Overhead obstructions;
   (H)   Provide the surety bond or insurance coverage required by state law
for operators of fireworks displays.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.20  APPROVAL OR REFUSAL GENERALLY.
   The city, through its designated representative, shall within a reasonable
time following completion of the requirements in the preceding sections of this
subchapter, approve or refuse to approve issuance of a permit hereunder. If the
city refuses to approve issuance, the city shall notify the applicant of the
basis of the refusal.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.21  GROUNDS FOR REFUSAL.
   (A)   Intentionally makes a false statement as to a material matter in the
permit application;
   (B)   Is a fugitive from justice;
   (C)   Is under a felony indictment;
   (D)   Has been finally convicted of a felony offense within the five-year
period immediately preceding the filing of the application;
   (E)   Has been finally convicted of a misdemeanor violation of an explosives
law or regulation within the two-year period immediately preceding filing of
the application;
   (F)   Held a permit issued under this subchapter, which permit was
previously revoked; or
   (G)   Failed to comply with the provisions of this subchapter in any manner
under a previous permit.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.22  APPEALS.
   If the city refuses to approve the issuance of a permit or revokes a permit
issued under this subchapter, that action is final unless the applicant or
permittee, within ten days after receiving notice of the action, files a
written appeal with the City Secretary. Such appeal shall be heard by the City
Council at its next regular meeting.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.23  TRANSFER; DURATION.
   (A)   A permit under this subchapter is neither transferable nor assignable.
   (B)   A permit expires:
      (1)   On the expiration date shown on the permit;
      (2)   When the permittee completes the permitted activity;
      (3)   When the permittee abandons the permitted activity; or
      (4)   If the permittee is an employee conducting the permitted activity
within the course and scope of his or her employment, when his or her
employer’s permit expires or is revoked, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.24  STORAGE, USE AND HANDLING OF EXPLOSIVES, FIREWORKS AND PYROTECHNIC
MATERIALS.
   Storage, use and handling of fireworks and pyrotechnic special effects
materials shall be in accordance with the Fire Code and as required by state
regulations listed under the Tex. Occupation Code Chapter 2154.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.25  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city and/or its duly authorized representative shall revoke a
permit under this subchapter if the permittee:
      (1)   Intentionally makes a false statement as to a material matter in
the permit application;
      (2)   Knowingly allows another to use his or her permit;
      (3)   Violates a term or condition of the permit;
      (4)   Fails within the applicable time period to comply with an order or
notice served on him or her under this subchapter; or
      (5)   Fails to discharge a duty imposed on him by this ordinance.
   (B)   The city shall send to the permittee a statement explaining the basis
of the revocation.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.26  PERMIT FEE.
   The permit fee for a display of fireworks shall initially be $5 for each
proposed public display. The permit fee may be changed and increased by the
city at any time when circumstances require.
(Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-2015)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §
92.02 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $50 or more than $2,000. If the violation
is continuing, each day shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (C)   Any person violating any part of §
92.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, prosecuted in the
Corporation Court of the city and, if convicted, shall be fined in any sum not
less than $10 and not exceeding $100; and each day §
92.03 of this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense, and each
time §
92.03 of this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense under
said section.
   (D)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
92.15 through
92.26 is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not exceeding $1,000. In addition,
the city or its authorized agent, may seize, remove or cause to be seized or
removed those fireworks offered or exposed for sale or stored or possessed or
transported in violation of §§
92.15 through
92.26.
(Ord. passed - -; Ord. 2202007, passed 2-27-2007; Ord. 20150421, passed 3-17-
2015)
CHAPTER 93:  ANIMALS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Enforcement
   
93.03   Authority to impound, destroy, or muzzle certain animals
   
93.04   Exceptions
   
93.05   Fees
   
93.06   Confinement of animal involved in attack
   
93.07   Vicious animals
   
93.08   Rabies vaccination of dogs and cats
   
93.09   Sanitary conditions
   
93.10   Disposal of dead animals
   
93.11   Noise
   
93.12   Farm animals and livestock
   
93.13   Animals at-large
   
93.14   Food and shelter
   
93.15   Impoundment; notice to owner
   
93.16   Dangerous dogs
   
93.17   Dangerous and wild animals
 
   
93.99   Penalty; injunction
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDON. To leave unattended for more than 72 hours or without making
reasonable arrangements for assumption of custody by another person.
   ANIMAL. Any living creature, including but not limited to dogs, cats, cows,
horses, birds, fish, mammals, reptiles, insects, fowl, and livestock, but
specifically excluding human beings.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY (ACA). Any individual employed, contracted with,
designated or appointed by the city for the purpose of aiding in the
enforcement of this chapter or any chapter relating to the licensure of
animals, control of animals, or seizure and impoundment of animals, and
includes any state or local law enforcement officer or other employee whose
duties in whole or in part include assignments that involve the seizure and
impoundment of any animal.
   ANIMAL FOSTER HOMES. A residential dwelling that accepts the responsibility
for stewardship of animals through an affiliation with a public or private
animal shelter or animal welfare organization, not to exceed six foster animals
at any given time. Permits to operate as a foster home shall be unexpired and
issued by the city.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. A facility operated by the city or with which the city has
contracted for the purpose of impounding or caring for animals held under the
authority of ordinance or state law.
   AT-LARGE. When an animal is not confined to the premises of its owner by a
fence in good repair and of sufficient strength and/or height to prevent the
animal from escaping there from, inside the residence or other enclosure, or
secured on such premises by a leash of sufficient strength to prevent the
animal from escaping from the premises, and so arranged that the animal will
remain upon such premises when the leash is stretched to full length in any
direction. An animal shall not be considered AT-LARGE when held and controlled
by a person of adequate strength by means of a device, such as a leash, cord,
chain, or rope, in good repair and of proper strength and length to control the
action of the animal, or while confined within a vehicle. An invisible fence
will suffice as sufficient restraint so long as the animal is not found outside
the premises of the owner.
   BITE. Any abrasion, scratch, puncture, tear causing the breaking or piercing
of skin caused by an animal.
   CAT. All domestic species or varieties of Felis catus, male or female, alive
or dead.
   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that, according to the records of the appropriate
authority:
      (1)   Has aggressively bitten, attacked, or endangered or has inflicted
severe injury on a human being on public or private property;
      (2)   Has more than once severely injured or killed a domestic animal
while off the owner's property;
      (3)   Has been used primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting
or is a dog trained for dog fighting; or
      (4)   Has, when provoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public grounds in a menacing fashion or apparent attitude of
attack, provided that such actions are attested to in a sworn statement by one
or more persons and dutifully investigated by the appropriate authority.
   DANGEROUS WILD ANIMAL. (As defined in the Tex. Health and Safety Code §
822.101.)
      (1)   A lion;
      (2)   A tiger;
      (3)   An ocelot;
      (4)   A cougar;
      (5)   A leopard;
      (6)   A cheetah;
      (7)   A jaguar;
      (8)   A bobcat;
      (9)   A lynx;
      (10)   A serval;
      (11)   A caracal;
      (12)   A hyena;
      (13)   A bear;
      (14)   A coyote;
      (15)   A jackal;
      (16)   A baboon;
      (17)   A chimpanzee;
      (18)   An orangutan;
      (19)   A gorilla; or
      (20)   Any hybrid of an animal listed in this definition.
   DOG. All domesticated members of Canis lupus familiaris, male and female,
alive or dead.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS. Those authorized to enforce the provisions of this
chapter, including but not limited to the local animal authority
representative, any animal control authority, or any police officer.
   FARM ANIMALS. Animals that are commonly found on a farm, such as cattle,
horses, donkeys, mules, swine, sheep, goats, lambs, chickens, rabbits, and
other livestock.
   HARBORING OF ANIMALS. The keeping and caring, including but not limited to
feeding and providing water, for an animal.
   HUMANELY EUTHANIZE. To cause the death of an animal by a method which:
      (1)   Rapidly produces unconsciousness and death without visible evidence
of pain or distress; or
      (2)   Utilizes anesthesia produced by an agent which causes painless loss
of consciousness with death following such loss of consciousness.
   IMPOUND. To seize and hold in custody of the animal control authority or
other authority such as a veterinarian.
   INVISIBLE FENCE. Any fence which cannot be seen with the human eye but that
is designed to keep an animal enclosed in a space. Such invisible fence must
not be capable of causing pain or discomfort to any human being that crosses
its path.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any peace officer as defined in the Tex. Code of
Criminal Procedure, Article 2.12.
   LITTER. The offspring at one birth of a multiparous animal.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, mules, cattle, poultry, hogs, goats and sheep of any and
all kinds, fallow deer, llamas, alpacas, emus and ostriches, and shall include
both the male and female species of such animals.
   LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITY. The local health authority is designated as the
animal control authority (ACA) and has authority to appoint representatives to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and to receive reports of animal bites,
investigate animal bites, ensure quarantine of possibly rabid animals and
otherwise carry out provisions of the state law pertaining to control and
eradication of rabies. This term includes animal control authority, law
enforcement officers and enforcement officers, including their respective
designees.
   OBSERVATION PERIOD. The ten days following a biting incident during which an
animal's health status must be monitored.
   OWNER. A person, who harbors, keeps, possesses, or permits to be harbored,
kept, or possessed an animal in his or her care, on or about his or her
premises, without regard to title, purchase, or acceptance of the animal as a
gift.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation or
any other legal entity.
   POLICE ANIMAL. Any animal used by a law enforcement agency or its officers
in the administration of official duties.
   PREMISES. Land together with any buildings or structures situated thereon.
   PROHIBITED ANIMAL. An animal not normally considered domesticated,
including, but not limited to, a venomous lizard, poisonous snake, raccoon,
skunk, fox, bear, elephant, kangaroo, monkey, chimpanzee, antelope, white tail
or mule deer, any protected, threatened, or endangered species as defined by
the state parks and wildlife commission and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service,
or any other wild animal capable of, or inclined to do, serious bodily harm to
humans, other animals or fowl.
   PROPER ENCLOSURE OF A DANGEROUS DOG. Secure enclosure of a dangerous dog,
means a fenced area or structure that is:
      (1)   Locked;
      (2)   Capable of preventing the entry of the general public, including
children;
      (3)   Capable of preventing the escape or release of a dog;
      (4)   Clearly marked as containing a dangerous dog; and
      (5)   In conformance with the requirements for enclosures established by
the local animal control authority.
   QUARANTINE. Strict confinement under restraint by closed cage or paddock or
in any other manner approved in this chapter or state law on the private
premises of the owner or at a facility approved by the state board of health or
its designee, the local animal control authority, or at a veterinarian's
office.
   SEVERE INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones, multiple
bites, or disfiguring lacerations requiring sutures or reconstructive surgery.
   STRAY ANIMAL. Any animal for which there is no identifiable owner or
harborer.
   UNPROVOKED. An action by an animal that is not in response to being
tormented, abused, teased or assaulted by any person; in response to pain or
injury; or in protection for itself or its food, kennel, immediate territory,
or nursing offspring.
   VACCINATED. Properly injected with a rabies vaccine licensed for use in that
species by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and administered by a
veterinarian licensed to practice in the state in an amount sufficient to
provide an immunity.
   VETERINARIAN. A person licensed to practice veterinary medicine.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any individual animal that has on two previous occasions,
without provocation, attacked or bitten any person or other animal, or any
individual animal which the local health authority or his or her representative
has reason to believe has a dangerous disposition likely to be harmful to
humans or other animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Includes all species of animals that commonly exist in a
natural unconfined state and are usually not domesticated. This shall apply
regardless of state or duration of captivity. The term shall include but is not
limited to: foxes, panthers, wolves, alligators, crocodiles, apes, elephants,
rhinoceroses, and all forms of poisonous or constricting reptiles, and other
like animals. This term is also inclusive of the definition in § 822 of the
Tex. Health and Safety Code.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.02  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the animal
control authority.
   (B)   The animal control authority shall have the authority to issue
citations for any violation of this chapter and/or other applicable city
ordinances or state laws.
   (C)   If a person cited is not present, the animal control authority may
send the citation to the alleged offender by registered or certified mail.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the animal
control authority in the performance of his or her duties.
   (E)   The animal control authority shall have the authority to humanely
euthanize and/or destroy any animal in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (F)   The animal control authority shall have the authority to use a
tranquilizer gun in the lawful discharge of his/her duties.
   (G)   Police animals are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.03  AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND, DESTROY, OR MUZZLE CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   The animal control authority shall have the authority to impound an
animal which is diseased and could endanger the health and welfare of another
animal or person.
   (B)   Any law enforcement officer or animal control authority shall have the
authority to kill an animal which, in the sole opinion of the police officer or
animal control authority, poses an imminent danger to a person or property and
where a real or apparent necessity exists for the destruction of the animal.
   (C)   The animal control authority shall have the authority to muzzle, or
order the owner, handler, or controller of an animal to muzzle, an animal
which, in the sole opinion of the animal control authority, poses a threat to
the safety or welfare of any person.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter (relating to animals at-large) shall
not apply to cats or to dogs under the age of four months.
   (B)   With the exception of sanitation requirements, the noise prohibition
and the prohibition on keeping vicious animals, the provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to dogs or cats of nonresidents of the city who are temporarily
visiting in the city, which dogs or cats, while out-of-doors, are kept securely
under control by a leash, rope or trap, or confined in a vehicle.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.05  FEES.
   All fees for licensing, daily handling, impoundment, disposal, quarantine,
lost or destroyed tags, and/or surrender to the animal shelter are stated in
the schedule of fees to be revised from time to time by the animal control
authority and approved by the City Council. A copy of the schedule of fees can
be obtained from the animal control authority or City Secretary.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.06  CONFINEMENT OF ANIMAL INVOLVED IN ATTACK.
   When an animal has bitten, scratched, or otherwise attacked a person or
animal, anyone having knowledge of such incident shall immediately notify the
animal control authority. Such animal shall then be confined in a veterinary
hospital or approved animal shelter designated by the animal control authority
for a period of ten days. The cost of such confinement shall be paid by the
owner of the animal. Such animal shall, during such period of confinement, be
subject to inspection by the animal control authority, other city personnel or
a licensed veterinarian. If, after the ten-day period, the owner fails to pick
up the animal, the animal control authority may follow the procedure for
adoption or disposal of an impounded animal.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Rabies reports and quarantine, see Tex. Health and Safety Code, §§ 826.041
et seq.
   Quarantine of animals, see Tex. Health and Safety Code, § 826.042
§ 93.07  VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   A vicious animal, as defined in this chapter, shall not be allowed in the
city limits. Any vicious animal found in the city shall be removed immediately
by order of the animal control authority. If the owner of the vicious animal
fails to remove such animal, the animal control authority may have such animal
impounded and/or destroyed.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.08  RABIES VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS.
   It shall be the duty of the owner or keeper of each dog and cat owned, kept,
possessed, harbored or allowed upon the premises of any such person and under
such person's control in the city to have such dog or cat vaccinated (as
defined herein) against rabies by a licensed veterinarian at least once every
three years. The most recent rabies vaccination tag for the animal must be worn
by the animal at all times. Such vaccination must be with a protective
inoculation with antirabic vaccine recognized and approved by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture given in an amount sufficient to provide immunity. It
shall be unlawful for an owner or keeper of a dog or cat to fail to have all
such animals vaccinated for rabies.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
Statutory reference:
   Rabies vaccinations, see Tex. Health and Safety Code, §§ 826.021 et seq.
§ 93.09  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All persons keeping animals within the city shall keep the premises upon
which such animal is kept clean and free from noxious and unpleasant odors and
shall use some control measure at reasonable intervals so as to keep such
premises free from flies, mosquitoes, fleas and other insects. Premises must
further be kept clean of animal feces, trash, and the like as to not create
noxious and unpleasant odors.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.10  DISPOSAL OF DEAD ANIMALS.
   (A)   Exposed carcasses.
      (1)   No person shall place or deposit the exposed carcass of any animal
or fowl on any street, alley, highway or public place or upon private property
or shall stand or permit to stand any truck or other vehicle containing such
carcass on any street, alley, highway or public place or on private property
within the city. The term EXPOSED as used in this section means the exposure of
the carcass of an animal so that putrefying odors may escape therefrom and
contaminate the air.
      (2)   The exposure of the putrefying carcass of a beast so that noxious
or disagreeable odors may escape therefrom and contaminate the air shall be a
public nuisance, and the health office or any police officer may summarily
remove such carcass to a point outside the city or may bury or burn the same,
and the expense of such disposal shall be included in the fine collected from
the person so violating this section.
   (B)   Duty of owner. No person shall allow or permit any animal or fowl
which has died and which at the time of death was owned or controlled or kept
by such person to lie in or upon any street, alley, lot or other place in this
city. Such person or persons shall cause the carcass of such animal or fowl to
be disposed of as the animal control authority.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.11  NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly keep or harbor any animal that causes loud
and unusual or frequent barking, howling, or other noise that disturbs the
peace and quiet of any person of ordinary sensibilities.
   (B)   It shall serve as prima facie evidence of a violation of this section
if an owner allows an unprovoked animal to cause noise described in this
section in excess of 15 minutes.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.12  FARM ANIMALS AND LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, harbor or keep any
farm animal or livestock within 100 feet of a hospital, restaurant, church or
nursing home.
   (B)   The animal control authority may remove any farm animal and/or
livestock found to be in violation of this section, chapter or other laws
regulating farm animals.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.13  ANIMALS AT-LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow a dog or any other animal
possessed, kept or harbored by such owner, other than a cat, to be at-large, as
defined in this chapter.
   (B)   Upon the complaint to the animal control authority that a cat has
caused a nuisance or hazard to the health or welfare of the human or animal
population, a law enforcement officer or animal control authority may determine
such cat to be at-large as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   A law enforcement officer or animal control authority is authorized to
impound any animal found to be at-large.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
Statutory references:
   Animals at-large, see Tex. Local Gov't Code, § 215.026
   Authority to regulate the capture and impoundment of animals, see Tex. Local
Gov't Code, § 215.026(c).
§ 93.14  FOOD AND SHELTER.
   No person shall fail to provide any animal in his charge or custody
sustenance, drink and protection from the elements, or cause such deprivation
to be done. This section does not require shelter for pastured livestock or
farm animals.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.15  IMPOUNDMENT; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   The animal control authority is authorized to capture and impound any
animal upon having probable cause to believe the animal to be in violation of
this chapter and/or of any of the other ordinances of state law, which
authorizes or requires the animal's capture and impoundment.
   (B)   If, by identification tag, the owner of an impounded animal can be
identified, the ACA will make every attempt to return the animal to its home
and notify the owner of any violations witnessed by the ACA. Written warnings
may be issued to owners. Violators may be impounded and/or citations may be
issued to owners of said animal.
   (C)   All impounded animals shall be kept for not less than five calendar
days. After this period of time, the animal shall be released to the animal
control facility and either placed for adoption or humanely destroyed at the
discretion of the animal control authority. No record shall be kept by the city
as to the disposition of an animal after its release.
   (D)   Any animal, whether licensed or unlicensed, which in the professional
judgment of the animal control authority, is in great pain and suffering due to
injury from which the animal probably will not recover, or which appears to
have rabies, and/or which is at-large and is posing an imminent danger to human
beings or to other animals, may be destroyed as directed by the ACA in a humane
manner.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.16  DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Declaration of dangerous dog.
      (1)   If the animal control authority has cause to believe that a dog is
a dangerous dog as defined by this chapter, the ACA may find and declare such a
dog a dangerous dog.
      (2)   Within 72 hours of declaring a dog dangerous, the animal control
authority will notify the person owning the dog of its designation as a
dangerous dog and provide the owner a copy of this chapter. The notification to
the owner will be provided in person or through certified mail return receipt
requested. The notification will describe the dog and specify any particular
requirements or conditions placed upon the person owning the dog.
      (3)   The notice shall inform the owner of the dog that the owner may
request, in writing, an appeal of the dangerous dog determination within ten
days from the receipt of the certified mail or date of the personal
notification of the dangerous dog declaration to contest the finding and
designation.
   (B)   Requirement for owner.
      (1)   If the owner of a dog that has been determined dangerous by the
animal control authority elects not to appeal that decision pursuant to this
section, then, within 30 days of the expiration of the ten-day time period for
appeal, the owner shall comply with the requirements listed in this chapter. If
the owner of a dog that has been determined dangerous appeals that decision to
the municipal court, then such owner shall comply with the requirement of this
section within 30 days after such determination by the municipal court. The
requirements of this section that must be met are as follows:
         (a)   Register the dangerous dog with the animal control authority for
the area in which the dog is kept;
         (b)   Restrain the dangerous dog at all times on a leash in the
immediate control of a person or in a secure enclosure; and
         (c)   Obtain liability insurance coverage or show financial
responsibility in the amount specified by state law to cover damages resulting
from an attack by the dangerous dog causing bodily injury to a person.
      (2)   For purposes of this chapter, a person learns that the person is
the owner of a dangerous dog when:
         (a)   The owner knows of an attack described in the definitions set
forth in this chapter.
         (b)   The owner is informed by the animal control authority that the
dog is a dangerous dog; or
         (c)   A determination is made by the municipal court that the animal
is a dangerous dog.
      (3)   Appeal from dangerous dog determination.
         (a)   Appeals from the animal control authority's determination that a
dog is dangerous will be heard by the municipal court. Upon notice of appeal as
prescribed in this section, the municipal court will hear the case at the next
trial setting after the request for appeal.
         (b)   The appeal is a civil proceeding for the purpose of affirming or
reversing the animal control authority's determination of dangerousness. If the
dog has been impounded, the municipal court judge may waive any and all fees
associated with the impoundment and release the dog to its owner upon reversal
of the animal control authority's determination.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.17  DANGEROUS AND WILD ANIMALS.
   The city hereby adopts Tex. Health and Safety Code, §§ 882.101-882.116 in
its entirety and any subsequent amendments for the regulation and control of
dangerous wild animals.
(Ord. 03172021, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation found guilty of
violating any of the provisions of §
93.09 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than $10, nor more
than $200, per day, including the cost of prosecution. All cost incurred as a
result of removing, feeding or otherwise caring for any species named in §
93.09 of this chapter will be at owner’s expense.
      (2)   Each day during which violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. passed 11-16-1999)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
      
111.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      114.   GAMBLING AND GAMING DEVICES
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Applications for licenses
   
110.02   Compliance with license requirements
   
110.03   Form of license; signatures
   
110.04   Investigation of applicant
   
110.05   License fees
   
110.06   Termination of license
   
110.07   Posting of license required
   
110.08   Petitions for consent of adjacent property owners
   
110.09   Business nuisances prohibited
   
110.10   Inspections of premises; refusal to allow inspection
   
110.11   Revocation of license
   
110.12   Change of location
§ 110.01  APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   Applications for all licenses and permits required by this title shall be
made in writing to the Clerk unless otherwise specifically provided by law.
Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
required by the issuing official.
§ 110.02  COMPLIANCE WITH LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever in this code a license is required for the maintenance, operation,
or conduct of any business, establishment, or occupation, any person or
corporation shall be subject to the requirements of such license if, by himself
or through an agent, employee, or partner, he holds himself forth as being
engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits patronage therefor, actively
or passively; or performs or attempts to perform any part of such business or
occupation in the municipality.
§ 110.03  FORM OF LICENSE; SIGNATURES.
   (A)   Forms for all licenses, permits, and applications therefor shall be
prepared and kept on file by the Clerk.
   (B)   Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the Clerk,
in the absence of any specific provisions to the contrary.
§ 110.04  INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of any application for a license or permit where laws
of the municipality necessitate an inspection or investigation before the
issuance of such permit or license, the Clerk shall, within 48 hours of the
time of such receipt, refer such application to the proper investigation
officer. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten days
after receiving the application or a copy thereof.
   (B)   For the protection of health the Health Officer shall make, or cause
to be made, an inspection in regard to such licenses in the connection of the
care and handling of food and the preventing of nuisances and the spread of
disease. For the protection of the general welfare and safety, the Building
Inspector shall make, or cause to be made, any such inspection relative to the
construction of a building or other structures. All other investigations,
except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the Chief of Police or by
some other officer designated by the Manager.
§ 110.05  LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   In the absence of specific provisions to the contrary, all fees and
charges for licenses or permits shall be paid in advance at the time
application therefor is made to the Clerk. All license fees shall be deposited
to the General Fund.
   (B)   Licenses shall be required for the following activities and businesses
upon payment of the fee indicated for specified time.
      Carnivals - per day, $50
      Dance halls - annual, $100
      Pawnbrokers - annual, $50
§ 110.06  TERMINATION OF LICENSE.
   All annual licenses shall terminate exactly one year from the date of issue,
where no provision to the contrary is made.
§ 110.07  POSTING OF LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business to keep
his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such business
at all times.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.08  PETITIONS FOR CONSENT OF ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   Whenever the consent of the adjoining or neighboring owners is
required as a prerequisite to the conduct of any business or occupation, or the
location of any establishment, such consent must be obtained by securing the
necessary signatures to a written petition. Such petition shall be filed with
the Clerk when signed.
   (B)   Consents once given and filed shall not be withdrawn and such
petitions need not be renewed for the continuous conduct of the same business,
whether by the same proprietor or not.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to forge any name to such petition or to
represent falsely that the names thereon have been properly placed thereon if
such is not the fact.
   (D)   Each consent when filed shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the
person securing the signatures that each signature appearing therein was
properly secured and written on, and that the petition contains the necessary
number of signatures required by this chapter.
   (E)   The frontage consent requirements contained in this chapter shall not
be construed to amend or change any zoning provisions of the city; and no such
provision shall be construed as permitting the erection of a structure or
building or the conduct of a business or the commission of any act in any
location where such structure, building, business, or act is prohibited by any
zoning regulations.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09  BUSINESS NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10  INSPECTIONS OF PREMISES; REFUSAL TO ALLOW INSPECTION.
   (A)   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with
the operation of a licensed business or occupation are provided for or required
by this code, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with any code
provision or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the
licensee, or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit
thereto for the purpose of making the inspection any officer or employee of the
city who is authorized or directed to make such inspection at any reasonable
time that admission is requested.
   (B)   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably
necessary to secure conformance with any code provision or to detect violations
thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee of the city whose business is
governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee of the
city requesting the same sufficient samples of such material or commodity for
such analysis.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty which may be provided, the City
Manager may revoke the license of any licensed proprietor of any licensed
business in the city who refuses to permit any such officer or employee who is
authorized to make such inspection or take such sample to make the inspection,
or take an adequate sample of the said commodity, or who interferes with such
officer or employee while in the performance of his duty in making such
inspection; provided, that no license shall be revoked for such cause unless
written demand is made upon the licensee or person in charge of the premises in
the name of the city stating that such inspection or sample is required.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.11  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license or permit granted for a limited time may be revoked by the
Manager at any time during the life of such license or permit for any violation
by the licensee or permittee of the code provisions relating to the license or
permit, the subject matter of the license or permit, or to the premises
occupied; such revocation may be in addition to any fine that may be otherwise
imposed.
§ 110.12  CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any
licensed business or occupation, or of any permitted act, may be changed
provided ten days’ notice is given to the Clerk; provided, the building,
zoning, and frontage consent requirements of this code are complied with.
CHAPTER 111:  SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Location requirements; measurements
   
111.03   Amortization; additional time
   
111.04   Exemptions from locational requirements
   
111.05   Effective date
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any business activity whether in public,
semi-public or private premises, which offers the opportunity to feel, handle,
touch, paint, be in the presence of or be entertained by the unclothed body or
the unclothed portion of the body of another person, or to observe, view or
photograph any such activity, except as specifically provided otherwise herein.
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES include, but are not limited to, the following.
         (a)   ADULT BOOKSTORE/FILM STORE. An establishment or commercial
enterprise having 10% or more of its stock in trade in videos, tapes,
cassettes, photographs, books, magazines and other periodicals which are
distinguished by the predominant emphasis on matters depicting, describing or
relating to specific sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as
defined below.
         (b)   ADULT CABARET. An establishment whose portion of business is the
offering to customers of live entertainment which is intended to provide sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers, including, but not
limited to, dancing, posing, modeling, acting and which is distinguished by or
characterized by a predominant emphasis on matters depicting, describing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (c)   ADULT DRIVE-IN THEATER. A drive-in theater used for presenting
motion picture films, video cassettes, cable television or any other such
visual media distinguished or characterized by a predominant emphasis on
matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
         (d)   ADULT ENCOUNTER PARLOR. An establishment whose business consists
of premises where customers either congregate, associate or consort with
employees who engage in specified sexual activities with or in the presence of
such customers, or who display specified anatomical areas in the presence of
such customers, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification to such customers.
         (e)   ADULT LOUNGE. An adult cabaret, as defined herein, which is
permitted or licensed pursuant to the Alcoholic Beverage Code where alcoholic
beverages may be served or sold.
         (f)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment or commercial
enterprise which has an enclosed building with a capacity of more than five
persons and is used for presenting material distinguished or characterized by a
predominant emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
         (g)   ADULT RETAIL STORE. A retail establishment in which:
            1.   Ten percent or more of the stock in trade consists of items,
products or equipment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
            2.   Any person is excluded by virtue of age from all or part of
the premises generally held open to the public where products or equipment
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
         (h)   VIEWING BOOTHS/ARCADES. An establishment or commercial
enterprise which has within its structure any electrical or mechanical device,
which projects or displaces any film, videotape or reproduction into a viewing
area obscured by a curtain, door, wall or other enclosure which is designed for
occupancy by no more than five persons, and is used for presenting material
distinguished or characterized by predominant emphasis on matters depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas for observation by five or fewer persons.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
            1.   Human genitals, pubic region;
            2.   Buttock; and
            3.   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
         (b)   Human genitals in a discernibly erect state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, acts of
bestiality; and
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, public
region, buttock or female breast.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to regulate:
      (1)   Any business operated by or employing psychologists, physical
therapists, athletic trainers, licensed masseuses, cosmetologists or barbers,
licensed by the state, performing functions authorized under the licenses held;
      (2)   Any business operated by or employing physicians, osteopaths,
chiropractors or nurses, licensed by the state, engaged in practicing the
healing arts; and/or
      (3)   Any retail establishment whose major business is the offering of
wearing apparel for sale to customer.
(Ord. 12809, passed 12-8-2009)
§ 111.02  LOCATION REQUIREMENTS; MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   All structures housing sexually-oriented businesses, as defined in §
111.01 of this chapter, shall be located as follows:
      (1)   At least 1,000 feet from the property boundary line of any
residential lot or any lot used for church, park, hospital or healthcare
purposes;
      (2)   At least 1,000 feet from another structure housing a sexually-
oriented business; and
      (3)   At least 1,000 feet from any lot used for school purposes.
   (B)   Said measurements are to be in a straight line in all directions from
the structure housing the sexually-oriented business to the nearest property
line on any lot in any residential area, or any lot used for church, school,
hospital or healthcare purposes, or any park, and any structure housing an
adult entertainment enterprise.
   (C)   The measurements for a structure shall be taken from the furthest
point that a structure extends in any direction, including overhanging roofs
and all other projections or portions of said structure.
   (D)   Should said sexually-oriented business be located in conjunction with
other buildings in a manner where said adult entertainment enterprise is
clearly separated from other portions of the structure (e.g., an adult
bookstore in a shopping center), the adult entertainment enterprise structure’s
measurements shall be taken from the boundaries of the space in which the adult
bookstore is housed or confined (not the entire shopping center, motel or
structure).
   (E)   Should said sexually-oriented business be located in conjunction with
other buildings in a manner where said sexually-oriented business is situated
above the ground level of a multi-story structure and is clearly separate from
other activities within the structure (e.g., an adult bookstore on an upper
level of an office tower or hotel), the sexually-oriented business measurements
shall be taken from the entry to that portion of the structure housing the
sexually-oriented business, thence to the nearest point of egress (elevator or
stairs), thence to the nearest ground floor exit, thence in a straight line to
the nearest point on any lot in a residential district, or any lot or tract
used for church, school, hospital or park purposes, and any structure housing a
sexually-oriented business.
   (F)   Each applicant for a sexually-oriented business must submit a site
plan to the City Secretary setting out the dimensions and locations for such
business. The applicant shall sign a certified and notarized statement attached
to the site plan that the proposed sexually-oriented business complies with the
requirements set forth herein above. It shall be the duty of the applicant to
prepare the site plan and to assure compliance with the distance requirements.
(Ord. 12809, passed 12-8-2009)
§ 111.03  AMORTIZATION; ADDITIONAL TIME.
   (A)   (1)   A sexually-oriented business in operation prior to the effective
date of this chapter which does not conform to the regulations pertaining to
sexually-oriented business as set out above shall be considered to be in non-
conforming use that may continue for a period not to exceed six months from the
effective date of this chapter, unless sooner terminated for any reason or
voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. After the expiration
of the six months, the non-conforming use shall be illegal and shall terminate,
except for as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   Such non-conforming use shall not be increased, enlarged, extended
or altered; except that, the use may be changed to a conforming use. If two or
more sexually-oriented businesses are within 1,000 feet of one another and
otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually-oriented business which was
first established and continually operating at a particular location is the
business in conforming use and the later-established business is non-
conforming.
      (3)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered in a non-conforming use by the expansion or new location of a
church, school, hospital, healthcare facility, park or residential lot.
   (B)   (1)   In the event an owner of a sexually-oriented business is unable
to recoup his or her investment in the sexually-oriented business following the
expiration of the amortization period as set out above, then the owner may
request additional time by making an application with City Secretary no later
than one month prior to the expiration of initial amortization period.
      (2)   (a)   The application must contain:
            1.   All data the applicant wishes to be considered in support of
request for additional time; and
            2.   Any additional data that is requested by the city/county to
evaluate whether the applicant has recouped his or her investment in the adult
entertainment enterprise.
         (b)   An applicant’s failure to supply data requested by the Council
shall be considered in evaluating whether he or she has recouped his or her
investment in the sexually-oriented business.
      (3)   Upon application by an owner of a sexually-oriented business, the
City Council may, at its discretion, allow additional time to amortize the
investment in a sexually-oriented business if it makes the following findings:
         (a)   The owner has made every effort to recoup his or her investment
in the sexually- oriented business;
         (b)   The owner will be unable to recoup his or her investment in the
sexually-oriented business by the end of the amortization period; and
         (c)   All other applicable provisions of this chapter will be
observed.
      (4)   If the City Council grants additional time, the grant shall be for
a period not to exceed one calendar year. If such time is insufficient to
amortize, an owner may thereafter apply for additional grants of time to recoup
his or her investment in the sexually-oriented business. Such application shall
be made no later than 60 days prior to the expiration of the applicable
amortization time period.
      (5)   The City Council shall grant or deny the additional time request by
a majority vote. Failure to reach a majority vote shall result in denial of the
request for additional time. Disputes of fact shall be decided on the basis of
a preponderance of the evidence. The decision of the City Council is final.
(Ord. 12809, passed 12-8-2009)
§ 111.04  EXEMPTIONS FROM LOCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In the event an owner of a sexually-oriented business wishes to claim
an exemption from this ordinance, the owner shall make application for a
locational exemption from the requirements of §
111.02 of this chapter with the City Secretary at least 30 days prior to the
expiration of all amortization periods.
   (B)   The City Council may, in its discretion, grant an exemption from the
locational restrictions if it makes the following findings:
      (1)   The location of the sexually-oriented business will not have a
detrimental effect on nearby properties or be contrary to the public safety of
welfare or the citizens of the city;
      (2)   The granting of the exemption will not violate the spirit and
intent of this chapter;
      (3)   The location of the sexually-oriented business will not downgrade
the property values or qualify of life in the adjacent areas or encourage the
development of urban blight;
      (4)   The location of the sexually-oriented business will not be contrary
to any program of neighborhood conservation nor will it interfere with any
efforts of urban renewal or restoration; and
      (5)   All other applicable provisions of this chapter will be observed.
   (C)   The City Council shall grant or deny the exemption by a majority vote.
Failure to reach a majority vote shall result in denial of the exemption.
Disputes of fact shall be decided on the basis of a preponderance of the
evidence. The decision of the City County is final.
   (D)   If the City Council grants an exemption, the exemption is valid for
one year from the date of the City Council’s action. Upon the expiration of an
exemption, the sexually-oriented business will be in violation of the
locational restrictions of §
111.02 of this chapter and the non-conforming use shall be illegal and shall
terminate, unless the applicant applies for and receives another exemption.
Such application shall be made with the City Secretary at least 60 days prior
to the expiration of the exemption.
   (E)   The grant of an exemption does not exempt the applicant from any other
provisions of this chapter other than the locational restrictions of §
111.02 of this chapter.
(Ord. 12809, passed 12-8-2009)
§ 111.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this chapter was immediate after its passage by the
governing body of the city.
(Ord. 12809, passed 12-8-2009)
CHAPTER 112:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Minimum distance from certain uses
   
112.02   Permits fees and issuance
   
112.03   Effective date
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  MINIMUM DISTANCE FROM CERTAIN USES.
   (A)   The sale of beer, wine or liquor is prohibited in the residential
areas of the city.
   (B)   The sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited by a dealer whose place
of business is within 300 feet of a church, public or private school, hospital,
daycare center or child-care facility.
      (1)   The measurement of the distance between the place of business where
alcoholic beverages are sold and a church, hospital, daycare center or child-
care facility shall be along the property lines of the street fronts and from
front door to front door and in direct line across intersections.
      (2)   The measurement of the distance between the place of business where
alcoholic beverages are sold and a public or private school shall be:
         (a)   In a direct line from the property line of the public or private
school to the property line of the place of business, and in a direct line
across intersections; or
         (b)   If the permit or license holder is located on or above the fifth
story of a multi-story building, in a direct line from the property line of the
public or private school to the property line of the place of business, in a
direct line across intersections and vertically up the building at the property
line to the base of the floor on which the permit or license holder is located.
(Ord. 121409, passed 12-14-2009)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02  PERMIT FEES AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Unless state law exempts a permittee or licensee from payment of a fee
established by this section, a permittee or licensee must pay the city an
annual permit and license fee of one-half the amount of the state fee for each
permit and license authorizing the sell of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   An applicant shall pay the fees due under division (A) above to the
city no later than the thirtieth day after the date after the applicant’s
payment of a sate permit or license fee is due.
   (C)   The city shall issue and deliver a receipt under this section to the
permittee or licensee authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages under this
chapter and a state permit or license, if the permittee or licensee:
      (1)   Pays the fees established by division (A) above; and
      (2)   Exhibits the permit or license issued by the state.
(Ord. 121409, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 112.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter was in force and effect from and after its publication as
required by law.
(Ord. 121409, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined in an amount of not less than $1 or
more than $2,000. Each day such violation shall be continued, or shall be
allowed to continue to exist, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 121409, passed 12-14-2009)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Refusal to leave premises
   
113.03   Restrictions
   
113.04   Telephone solicitation
   
113.05   Registration required
   
113.06   Exceptions and exemptions
   
113.07   Limitations on location
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Baird.
   PEDDLER. Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling from
place to place, from house to house or from street to street for the purpose of
selling or soliciting for sale goods, wares, merchandise or services other than
agricultural products produced or processed in the state; and shall also mean
and include any person transacting a temporary business within the city at an
established place of business. The word PEDDLER shall include the terms
SOLICITOR, TRANSIENT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or VENDOR.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 113.02  REFUSAL TO LEAVE PREMISES.
   Any peddler or hawker of goods or merchandise who enters upon premises owned
or leased by another and willfully refuses to leave said premises after having
been notified by the owner or possessor of said premises or his or her agent to
leave the same shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03  RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to enter upon any private
premises when the same is posted with a sign stating “no peddlers allowed” or
“no solicitation allowed” or any other words to such effect.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person coming under the provisions of
this chapter to engage in any business at any time between 30 minutes after
sunset and 30 minutes after sunrise, except when such person has a specific
invitation and appointment with the customer.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04  TELEPHONE SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to use a telephone for the
peddling of goods, wares, merchandise or services or for solicitation of funds
or any other activity connected with peddling or soliciting.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05  REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Registration card required. It shall be unlawful for any person to go
from house to house or from place to place in the city to solicit, sell or take
orders for goods, wares, merchandise or services including insurance contracts,
subscriptions to magazines or newspapers, or any article for future delivery,
unless such peddler shall first have registered with the city and shall have
applied for and received from the city a registration card showing such
registration.
   (B)   Application for registration card; contents; fee. Any person desiring
a registration card, as required by this chapter, shall file an application
with the city. Such application shall give the applicant’s full name; the home
address; the name of the last three towns in which the applicant worked; the
name of the company or individual such applicant represents or works for, if
any; the merchandise, service or product to be sold, disposed of, peddled or
hawked by the applicant; and, if such applicant represents another individual
or company, satisfactory proof of the authority to represent such company or
individual. The application shall be accompanied by a fee of $10 to help defray
expenses of investigation.
   (C)   Annual fee. All registration cards shall be valid for seven calendar
days from the date of their issuance. The fees herein provided for shall be
used for the purpose of defraying expenses incidental to the issuance of said
registration cards.
   (D)   Issuance of cards. No registration card shall be issued until the
applicant therefor shall have complied with all the provisions and requirements
of this chapter. Such card, when issued, shall be signed by the City Secretary,
shall be dated as of the date of its issuance and shall be valid for the length
of time indicated on the face of same. The registration card issued shall be of
wallet size and contain the name of licensee, license number, date of
registration card, and shall have the city seal stamped on the face thereof.
Any card not dated and signed as herein required, or which is issued in
violation of this section, shall be void.
   (E)   Expiration and reissuance of registration card.
      (1)   After expiration, a subsequent registration card may be obtained by
re-registering with the city and applying for such subsequent registration
card, and in all other respects complying with the provisions of this chapter.
Any peddler may re-register and apply for subsequent registration cards as
often as desired.
      (2)   The city shall issue a subsequent registration card for each
applicant therefor within 48 hours after such applicant has complied with all
requirements therefor as prescribed herein. Such subsequent card shall be
similar to the original card, except as to its date.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06  EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Commercial travelers or sales agents. The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to the sales made to dealers by commercial travelers or sales
agents in the usual course of business, nor to sales made under authority and
by order of law, nor to vendors of farm and dairy products or other articles of
food grown and produced by them in this country, and they shall not be required
to pay the fees required by this chapter. However, the registration card
required hereby shall be issued to such persons by the city upon satisfactory
proof that they have produced or grown the product to be peddled, and such
cards shall so state. This chapter shall not apply to regularly-established
route salespersons or other persons having customers to whom they make periodic
deliveries, who do not demand, accept or receive payments or deposits of money
in advance of final delivery.
   (B)   Organizations. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to
solicitation, sale or distribution made by charitable, educational or religious
organizations, nor shall it apply to community drives.
   (C)   Interstate commerce.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons engaged
in interstate commerce; provided, however, that, it shall be unlawful for a
person engaged in interstate commerce to go from house to house or place to
place in the city without having first registered with, and obtained from, the
city a permit therefor giving the following information:
         (a)   Name, birthplace, home address and local address, if any of
registrant;
         (b)   Physical description, including color of hair and eyes, height,
weight, complexion and distinguishing scars and marks, if any;
         (c)   Statement of whether or not the applicant has ever been
convicted of a crime (other than minor traffic violations) and, if so, what,
when and where conviction occurred;
         (d)   Name and address of person, if any, that individual represents
or from whom or through whom orders are to be solicited or cleared;
         (e)   Description of product and method of selling;
         (f)   Period of time during which the registrant wishes to solicit or
sell;
         (g)   Statement of whether or not such activity is involved in
interstate commerce; and
         (h)   Character references.
      (2)   The applicant for such registration may be finger-printed and
photographed for purposes of identification.
      (3)   The applicant, at the time of the application, shall submit for
inspection to the city written proof of his or her identification, in addition
to the above-named items. Such identification may be in the form of an
automobile operator’s license, a letter of identification or a card issued to
the applicant by the person for or through whom orders are to be solicited or
cleared. The city shall have a reasonable time to check such information before
issuing a registration card.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07  LIMITATIONS ON LOCATION.
   No peddler or itinerant vendor shall have any exclusive right to any
location on a public street, nor shall any peddler be permitted a stationary
location, nor shall be permitted to operate in any congested area where the
operation might impede or inconvenience the public. For the purpose of this
section, the judgment of a public officer, exercised in good faith, shall be
deemed conclusive as to whether the area is congested or the public is impeded
or inconvenienced.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $250. Each transaction in violation of any of the provisions hereof
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 114: GAMBLING AND GAMING DEVICES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Maximum number of skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machine
businesses
   
114.03   Requirements, local permit fees, expirations, and renewals,
restrictions and exemptions for coin operated machine premises permit
   
114.04   Business location restrictions and relocation requirements
   
114.05   Registration: tax permits and fees
   
114.06   Attachment of tax permits to coin operated machines
   
114.07   Sealing of machines and seal tax
   
114.08   Existing laws and inspections
 
   
114.99   Penalties
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases used in this chapter are hereby
defined as follows:
   BUSINESS OWNER or PERMIT HOLDER. A person owning or having the care,
control, management or possession of any coin and/or slot operated machine who
exhibits, displays or permits to be exhibited or displayed, in the location of
business or upon premises under operator's control, any coin and/or slot
operated machine in this city.
   COIN OPERATED or SLOT MACHINE BUSINESS. Defined as a business operated
solely for the purpose of amusement utilizing one or more coin operated or slot
machine(s) and which business shall have no other purpose for being open to the
public other than the specific use of those machines.
   EXCLUDED MACHINES.
      (1)   Machines that provide a service such as jukeboxes, laundry,
vending, pay toilet, pay telephone and all other machines or devices, which
dispense services and merchandise directly from the machine.
      (2)   Machines that award the user no-cash merchandise, toys, or
novelties solely and directly from the machine, such as claw, crane, or similar
machines.
      (3)   Machines from which the opportunity to receive non-cash merchandise
prizes, toys, or novelties or a representation of value redeemable for those
items varies depending upon the user's ability, including, but not limited to,
marble machines, marble shooting machines, marble table machines, miniature
race-track machines, miniature football machines, miniature golf machines, and
miniature bowling machines.
   GAMING DEVICE. As defined in the Tex. Penal Code, only electronic,
electromechanical, or mechanical contrivance not excluded under the statute
that for a consideration affords the player an opportunity to obtain anything
of value, the award of which is determined solely or partially by change, even
though accompanied by some skill, whether or not the prize is automatically
paid by the contrivance.
      (1)   Includes, but is not limited to, gambling device versions of bingo,
keno, blackjack, lottery, roulette, video poker, or similar electronic,
electromechanical, or mechanical games, or facsimiles thereof, that operate by
chance or partially so, that as a result of the play or operation of the game
award credits or free games, and that record the number of free games or
credits so awarded and the cancellation or removal of the free games or
credits; and
      (2)   Does not include any electronic, electromechanical, or mechanical
contrivance designed, made, and adopted solely for bona fide amusement purposes
if the contrivance rewards the player exclusively with non-cash merchandise
prized, toys, or novelties, or a presentation of value redeemable for those
items, that have a wholesale value available from a single play of the game or
device of not more than ten times the amount charged to play the game or device
once or $5, whichever is less.
   MANAGER. A person having the care, control, management of any number of coin
and/or slot operated machine in the location of the business or upon premises
under the operator's control within this city.
   PROPERTY OWNER. A person, individual, firm, company, association or
corporation owning a building, property or facility on which a business will
operate within the confines of all laws regulating the business in local, state
or federal laws.
   SEALING FEES. The city charge for rendering machines inoperable for
noncompliance with this chapter.
   SKILL OR PLEASURE COIN OPERATED OR SLOT MACHINES OR MACHINES. Every machine
or device of any kind or character, including eight liners, slot machines,
games of chance, which are operated by or with coins, metal slugs, tokens,
checks, debit or credit cards, and when such machines dispense or are used or
are capable of being used or operated for amusement or pleasure or when such
machines are operated for the purpose of dispensing or affording skill or
pleasure, or for any other purpose other than the excluded machines as defined
herein.
   START-UP CITY SEALS FEES. The cost of the seal which the city requires to be
placed on each machine at the start of operation under this chapter.
(Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 114.02  MAXIMUM NUMBER OF SKILL OR PLEASURE COIN OPERATED OR SLOT MACHINE
BUSINESSES.
   There shall not be more than 12 skill or pleasure coin operated or slot
machine businesses operating within the city limits of the City of Baird, Texas
at any one time.
(Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 114.03  REQUIREMENTS, LOCAL PERMIT FEES, EXPIRATIONS AND RENEWALS,
RESTRICTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS FOR COIN OPERATED MACHINE PREMISES PERMIT.
   (A)   Requirements. All persons, owning, possessing, maintaining, or
operating any amount of skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machines for
use by the general public, private clubs, associations, fraternities or orders
shall apply for a permit and registration from the city. The permit application
must contain a complete statement about the identity of the owner of the skill
or pleasure coin operated or slot machine business: to include name, date of
birth, social security number, business name, D.B.A. information, comptroller
tax I.D. number, mailing address of owner, address or residence; address of
business; the location where the business will operate; the number of skill or
pleasure coin operated or slot machines at the location, a list of serial
numbers, one assigned to each machine; the nature of any business being
operated at the location; the date when each skill or pleasure coin operated or
slot machine was placed at the location; the owner of the location where such
machines will operate; and any other pertinent information that may be required
by the city in the licensing and registration of the machines and/or the
business. Information provided for records will be updated on a monthly basis.
If there is a change in any type of information that is observed and/or
completed by the permit holder, property owner and/or manager, the information
will be immediately revised and/or relayed to the Permits division of the Code
Enforcement Officer. A permit issued for the operation of skill or pleasure
coin operated or slot machines under this chapter:
      (1)   Is required for each location and is personal to the applicant and
may not be sold, bargained, conveyed, transferred or assigned to any other
individual, except as allowed under this chapter.
      (2)   May only be issued to a person hereinafter referred to as business
owner or permit holder.
      (3)   Does not vest any property or right in the permit, except for the
right to conduct the permitted business.
      (4)   Every skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machine business in
operation within the corporate City of Baird, regardless of the number of
machines in usage, shall have a city seal affixed to each machine.
   (B)   Fees. A business owner, manager or lessee of premises on which a skill
or pleasure coin operated and/or slot machine is made available to others shall
be required to secure a permit by paying to the city the permit fee set forth
below which shall include permitting fees, inspection fees, city start-up seal
fees and inspection fees. All businesses having such machines on premises shall
be responsible for complying with all city and state regulations regarding
operation and payment of fees.
      (1)   All new skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machine businesses
opening after March 16, 2021 shall be required to pay an initial new business
permit fee of $5,000 in addition to the fees set forth below.
      (2)   All existing and new skill or pleasure coin operated or slot
machine businesses shall be required to pay an annual permit fee of $2,000 on
or before the first business day of each calendar year for each business
location.
   (C)   Issuance of permits. All permits shall be issued on the basis of the
calendar year beginning on the first day of the year and ending on the last day
of the year. The city shall not pro-rate yearly fees for permits issued at any
time during the year but shall require payment of the full yearly charge. The
city shall not pro-rate yearly fees or refund monies for permits at any time
once the permit is issued, including but not limited to, expiration as defined
in this section.
   (D)   Expiration. Permits issued at any point of the calendar year shall
automatically expire upon the following:
      (1)   On December 31 of each calendar year; or
      (2)   On the change of ownership of the building or property where the
machines are located; or
      (3)   Upon revocation of permit by the City of Baird or its designees; or
      (4)   Upon surrender of permit by registered business owner; or
      (5)   Upon the death of the applicant except as otherwise provided in
this section.
   (E)   Renewal. All permits may be renewed on or before the last business day
of the calendar year. The City of Baird shall not refund any portion of a skill
or pleasure coin operated or slot machine business permit fee after the permit
has been issued, nor shall it pro-rate or reduce in the amount of any fee due
to the city. Fees shall be due and payable on or before the first business day
of the calendar year. In the event yearly fees are not paid in full by the
first business day of each calendar year, the permit holder, business owner,
manager or lessee shall be allowed ten business days, not including official
holidays, to pay in full the original amount plus 10% of the total fee amount
due. If all fees are not paid within time allotted, the permit shall be
revoked.
   (F)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Persons under 21 prohibited. The presence of persons under 21 years
of age on the premises subject to skill or pleasure coin operated or slot
machine business permits, is prohibited. It is an affirmative defense to
prosecution under this chapter that the person under 21 years of age was a bona
fide employee of the establishment subject to a skill or pleasure coin operated
or slot machine business permit. A sign notice, informing the public of this
age restriction, shall be placed at the entrance of the location.
      (2)   Alcoholic beverages prohibited. The presence of any alcoholic
beverages on the premises of a skill or pleasure coin operated machine business
is prohibited. No individual, person, owner or manager shall allow or be
allowed to consume any alcoholic beverage on the premises of a skill or
pleasure coin operated or slot machine business location. No individual,
person, owner or manager shall give, sell, bring to or allow the bringing of
any alcoholic beverage on the premises of a skill or pleasure coin operated or
slot machine business.
      (3)   Posting of permit. The permit shall be posted on the premises in a
place that is conspicuous and noticeable to common view by the public.
      (4)   Permit limitations. No more than one permit shall be issued to any
location. A transfer of permit title shall not be allowed except as allowed by
this section. A new permit may only be issued to replace a permit that has been
voluntarily relinquished or revoked. A new permit to replace an existing permit
that has been relinquished or revoked shall only be issued to a registrant on
the single waiting list. New permits may only be issued to qualified
registrants on the city's waiting list, in the order of their registration.
      (5)   Window visibility. Windows shall be unobstructed and/or unpainted,
as to allow for visibility. All windows sun screened or tinted must allow light
transmission of 20% or more. No luminous reflectance, mirror, or reflective
type material shall be allowed to be placed on same windows.
      (6)   Sign requirements. All signs for advertisement shall be approved by
the City of Baird. No unauthorized signs shall be placed or allowed to be
placed on the permitted business property without prior approval from the City
of Baird. Any signs deemed to be out of compliance shall be grounds for
revocation of the business permit.
   (G)   Exemptions to the restriction of assignment of permit. The immediate
next of kin may continue operations of the specific skill or pleasure coin
operated or slot machine business and have the permit transferred over to the
immediate next of kin's name. The immediate next of kin shall be defined for
the purpose of this chapter as: husband, wife, son, daughter, mother or father.
All requirements still apply and continued operation must conform with this and
other City of Baird ordinances that apply to such business operations.
   (H)   Waiting lists. Waiting lists, resident and non-resident will be on a
first come, first serve basis, based on the initial application dates that are
filed. Waiting lists will be a continuous working list to not allow for any
modifications or advantages to solely benefit any one person. This, as to allow
for all persons a fair, balanced and reasonable opportunity to receive a
permit. The following shall apply:
      (1)   All persons who desire to obtain a permit when the opportunity to
do so becomes available, shall register with the City of Baird and be placed on
a single waiting list by preparing the appropriate forms required by the city.
      (2)   The city shall create and maintain one waiting list. This waiting
list shall be for resident applicants and for non-resident applicants. A place
on this waiting list for permits is on a first come, first serve basis.
      (3)   The total number of permits issued to residents and non-residents
under this chapter in total shall not be more than 12.
      (4)   The waiting list shall be comprised of the person or sole
individual that will hold the single permit, and the name on the waiting list
may not be exchanged with another individual.
      (5)   When a permit becomes available, the next individual on the waiting
list shall be allowed 30 calendar days upon notice from the city to locate a
suitable location to operate and to complete the permit process.
(Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 114.04  BUSINESS LOCATION RESTRICTIONS AND RELOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The city may only issue a skill or pleasure coin operated or slot
machine business permit in commercial, general, retail, business or industrial
areas.
   (B)   The city may not issue a skill or pleasure coin operated or slot
machine business permit from the door entry of said business within a radius of
500 feet of the following:
      (1)   All places of education or higher learning. To include pre-school
facilities, child day care, elementary, middle or intermediate schools, high
schools, places of higher learning colleges, technical schools or universities.
      (2)   Hospitals or places where medical attention is received, or
pharmaceuticals are dispensed. To include pharmacies, clinics, night clinics,
adult day care, veteran hospitals, hospitals, major trauma units, or where
ambulatory services are stationed.
      (3)   Any place of religious worship. To include any established building
of gathering for worship, to include but not limited to, a building of a
denomination or other location where a group of people (a congregation) comes
to perform acts of religious praise, honor or devotion.
      (4)   Any location where children congregate to include, but not limited
to, playgrounds, parks, city-maintained swimming pools, restaurants or eateries
that facilitate a playground area or day care centers.
   (C)   Relocation of premises. Active business permit holders who wish to
relocate the establishment for which they are permitted to another location
must notify the City of Baird immediately and receive an amended permit prior
to relocating. Upon immediate notice to the City of Baird, the business owner
shall be allowed 45 days to move all operations to a new location. The city
reserves the right to deny the relocation in the event that it finds
significant negative impact for the surrounding properties or is violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 114.05  REGISTRATION: TAX PERMITS AND FEES.
   Each skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machine shall be registered
with the City of Baird by make, type and serial number. A tax permit issued by
the city shall be affixed to each such registered machine. Each skill or
pleasure coin operated or slot machine shall have a serial number, which is
clearly visible on the outside surface of the machine. If a skill or pleasure
coin operated or slot machine is not manufactured with a serial number, an
owner shall assign a serial number to the machine and either stamp or engrave
the assigned number on the machine. Upon proper verification that all state-
regulated and required fees and taxes have been paid and all required tax
permits attached, the city shall issue its tax permit for each machine. The
city shall charge a fee of $15 for each tax permit for each machine in
operation.
(Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 114.06  ATTACHMENT OF TAX PERMITS TO COIN OPERATED MACHINES.
   A skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machine tax permit shall be
securely affixed to any permanent surface of a machine in such a manner that
the tax permit may be clearly seen by the public and that will require
significant effort to remove the tax permit. A tax permit issued for a certain
skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machine shall not be transferred to
another machine.
(Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 114.07  SEALING OF MACHINES AND SEAL TAX.
   (A)   The City of Baird may seal any coin operated and/or slot machine in
violation of this chapter, including on which the tax has not been paid. The
city shall charge a fee of $25 for the release of any machine sealed. It shall
be unlawful for any person to break the seal affixed in the name of the city or
exhibit, display or remove from location any machine on which the seal has been
broken.
   (B)   Every skill or pleasure coin operated and slot machine subject to the
payment of the fees levied by this chapter and upon which the fees have not
been paid as provided herein, are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and
the business operating said machines may be denied operation by the City of
Baird, as well as denying the continued operation of said business. All permits
allowing said business to operate may be denied and/or discontinued and all
permits may be revoked.
   (C)   The city shall have the authority to seal skill or pleasure coin
operated and/or slot machines for non-payment of permit fees at any business
establishment.
   (D)   Upon proof that all fees and any penalties or assessments have been
paid in full and an inspection of the location of business has been completed,
any and/or all sealed machines may be unsealed by the Code Enforcement Officer,
the city and/or their designees.
(Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 114.08  EXISTING LAWS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing herein shall be construed or have the effect to permit,
authorize or legalize any machine, device, table or coin operated or slot
machine, the keeping, operation, exhibition, display or maintenance of which is
now illegal or in violation of any statute of the Tex. Penal Code and/or of any
federal laws of the United States of America.
   (B)   GAMBLING DEVICES as defined by Tex. Penal Code, Ch. 47, and as
interpreted by judicial decision (Hardy v State, No. 01-0779, Tex. 2003 and One
Super Cherry Master Video 8-Liner Machine v State, No. 01-0673, Texas 2003) are
prohibited from use as a skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machine for
which a permit may be lawfully issued.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to inspect the premises of any skill or
pleasure coin operated or slot machine business establishment in order to
investigate compliance with this chapter. The owner of such a business, or
their employees shall not prohibit the City of Baird, its inspectors, code
enforcements, marshals, or fire personnel, at any time, to enter the premises
of operation of the permit to ensure there are no violations of city, state or
federal laws, to include correct machine count issued to the permit, correct
permits or permits per machine, fire code violations or penal code violations.
The entries and exits shall be maintained as to allow unobstructed,
unregulated, free entry into said location by the city and its code
enforcements, marshals, or fire personnel without restrictions.
(Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021)
§ 114.99  PENALTIES.
   (A)   Fines. Any person, business owner, or manager violating any provision
of this chapter shall, upon conviction of such violation, be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $500 per machine, per
violation for each day that the violation occurs. The unlawful operation of any
single skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machine shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense for each day that the same is operated or
exhibited and is punishable by separate and distinct fines not to exceed $500
each.
   (B)   Revocation of permit. Upon a violation of this chapter and in addition
to any fines, the City of Baird, or its designees, may revoke any permit issued
to operate a skill or pleasure coin operated or slot machine business.
   (C)   Additional fines. If a permit holder, business owner, manager or
lessee is found to be operating more machines than previously reported, a
$1,000 fee per machine, over the original reported machines, shall be levied
against the permit holder, business owner, manager or lessee.
   (D)   Sealing machines. The city reserves the right to render machines
inoperable by sealing the machines for non-compliance with or violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 20210317, passed 3-16-2021)
2021 S-4
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION
      
132.   ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Litter in Public and Private Places
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Depositing litter upon streets; use of receptacles
   
130.03   Depositing litter on private property
   
130.04   Sweeping of litter generally
   
130.05   Throwing litter from vehicles prohibited
   
130.06   Loading of vehicles to prevent scattering of litter on streets and the
like
Curfew
   
130.15   Juvenile curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
LITTER IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PLACES
§ 130.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subhcpater, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivatives shall have the meaning given herein:
   AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE. A litter storage or collection receptacle as required
or authorized by the city.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Same as GARBAGE, REFUSE and RUBBISH, as defined in this section and
all other  waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited,
tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building, or other structure,
designed or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and
shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or
mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other
structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
§ 130.02  DEPOSITING LITTER UPON STREETS; USE OF RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place within the city, except in public receptacles,
in authorized private receptacles or in the official city dump.
   (B)   Persons placing litter in public or private receptacles shall do so in
such manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place, or upon private property.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  DEPOSITING LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter upon any occupied or unoccupied
private property within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except
that the owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized
private receptacles for collection of litter in such manner that such litter
will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any
street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  SWEEPING OF LITTER GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any storm sewer, gutter,
street, or other public place within the city the accumulation of litter from
any building, lot, public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or
occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of
litter.
   (B)   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
city shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. Any person owning or occupying a place of business shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter and shall prevent any litter from his
premises from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05  THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No person, while a driver or a passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon
private property.
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06  LOADING OF VEHICLES TO PREVENT SCATTERING OF LITTER ON STREETS AND
THE LIKE.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place.
Penalty, see §
130.99
CURFEW
§ 130.15  JUVENILE CURFEW.
   (A)   Generally. There is established a curfew prohibiting minors from five
through 16 years of age from being in any public place unaccompanied between
12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. Sunday through Thursday and between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. Friday and Saturday; and between 8:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. on school days.
   (B)   Purpose.  It is the express purpose of this section to:
      (1)   Deter criminal conduct involving juveniles;
      (2)   Reduce the number of juvenile crime victims;
      (3)   Reduce injury from accidents involving juveniles;
      (4)   Reduce the additional time that law enforcement officers are
required to be in the field due to juvenile crime;
      (5)   Provide additional and more effective means and options for dealing
with gang-related violence and crime;
      (6)   Reduce juvenile peer pressure to stay out late;
      (7)   Reduce juvenile peer pressure to participate in violent or criminal
activities;
      (8)   Assist parents in the control of their children; and
      (9)   To make the city a better community and a safer place to live and
work, to raise a family and to grow up.
   (C)   Scope.  The curfew established in this section applies to any person
five years of age through 16 years of age and to the parents, legal guardian or
authorized adult supervisor of any such person within the incorporated city.
   (D)   Definitions.
      JUVENILE.  A child five years of age through 16 years of age, unless the
juvenile has graduated from high school or has received a high school
equivalency certificate, is legally emancipated or is married.
      SCHOOL DAY.  Any day of the year on which any local public schools are in
session.
      SCHOOL HOLIDAY.  Any day during the school year on which all local public
schools are not in session.
   (E)   Periodic review.  This section shall be subject to periodic review as
required by Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code § 370.002 and any amendment thereof.
(Ord. 012015, passed 1-20-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §
130.15 shall be a Class C misdemeanor and the fine for violation shall be from
$1 to $500 as determined by the municipal court of the city. All fines are
subject to the court’s discretion and may change without notice.
      (2)   Any juvenile taken into custody under §
130.15 shall be held, processed and released in compliance with Tex. Code of
Criminal Procedure Article 45.059 and any amendment thereof.
(Ord. 012015, passed 1-20-2015)
CHAPTER 131:  SEX OFFENDER REGISTRATION
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Restrictions
   
131.04   Exceptions
   
131.05   Effective date
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  PURPOSE.
   In acknowledgment that sex offenders who prey upon children are at a higher
risk of re-offending, the city has a compelling interest to protect the health,
safety and welfare of its children by restricting access to areas where
concentrations of children exist.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PREMISES. The building, structure or surrounding the building, playground
area and playing fields or courts.
   RADIUS. Distance shall be measured from the outer property lines.
   REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. An individual convicted of a sex offense, against a
person under the age of 18 and as a result, required to register for life.
   RESIDENCES. The place, or those places, other than a domicile in which a
person may spend time living, residing or dwelling.
   SCHOOL/DAYCARE. Any public or private education facility that provides
services to those 18 years of age or younger or a licensed daycare facility
that is clearly marked.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.03  RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Any person who is a convicted sex offender involving a minor, and is
required to register for life, shall not reside within a 2,500-foot radius of
the property line of a school or within a 1,000-foot radius of property line of
a daycare center.
   (B)   Any person who is a convicted sex offender, and is required to
register for life, is prohibited from entering upon the premises of a school or
daycare center unless specifically authorized by the school administration or
daycare center owner.
   (C)   No person who is a convicted sex offender, and is required to register
for life, shall loiter or remain within a 2,500-foot radius of a school or
within a 1,000-foot radius of a licensed daycare center.
   (D)   Any person who is a convicted sex offender involving a minor, and is
required to register for life, must remain in his or her residence from 5:00
p.m. to 12:00 a.m. on Halloween night. He or she will not be permitted to have
any Halloween decorations and or lights displayed. He or she also will not be
permitted to distribute any candy to children trick or treating this night. If
he or she will not be at the residence during these hours, he or she must
provide documentation of his or her exact whereabouts.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   A registered sex offender residing within 2,500 feet of a school or within
1,000 feet of a licensed daycare center is not in violation if the residency
was established prior to the date of passage of this chapter and residency has
been consistently maintained. A sex offender is not in violation of this
chapter if a school or daycare facility is built or moved into the 2,500/1,000-
foot restricted area as long as the offender resided at this location prior to
the new establishment and residency has been consistently maintained.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Not withstanding any law to the contrary, this chapter took effect as of
April 15, 2014.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who, after written notice from the city about the requirements of
this chapter, is in violation of the provisions of this chapter and shall be
subject to an action brought by the city in the District Court or Superior
Court to enforce the requirements of this chapter. The city may seek injunctive
relief to require compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The city may
also seek a penalty in the minimum of $500, which may be imposed on a daily
basis for each day that a violation continues after notice from the city. In
the event that the city is the prevailing party in an action under this
chapter, it shall be entitled to an award of its reasonable attorney’s fees,
expert witness fees and any other associated cost.
(Ord. passed - -)
CHAPTER 132:  ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Violations; use, possession and the like
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ILLEGAL SMOKING PRODUCT. Any plant or other substance, whether described as
tobacco, herbs, incense, spice or any blend thereof, regardless of whether the
substance is marketed for the purpose of being smoked, which includes any one
or more of the following substances or chemicals:
      (1)   Salvinorin A, contained with the Salvia Divinorum plant, whether
growing or not; or possessed as an extract, compound, manufacture, derivative,
mixture or preparation of such plant;
      (2)   2-(IR,3S)-3hydroxycyclohexyl)-5-(2-methylocatan-2-yl) phenol (also
known as CP 47, 497) and homologues;
      (3)   I-Pentyl-3-(l naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-018); or
      (4)   Butyl-3-(l-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-073).
   INGESTION DEVICE. Equipment, a product or material that is used or intended
for use in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing an illegal smoking
product into the human body, including:
      (1)   A metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipe
with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head or punctured metal
bowl;
      (2)   A water pipe;
      (3)   A carbureting tube or device;
      (4)   A smoking or carbureting mask;
      (5)   A chamber pipe;
      (6)   A carburetor pipe;
      (7)   An electric pipe;
      (8)   An air-driven pipe;
      (9)   A chillum;
      (10)   A bong; or
      (11)   An ice pipe or chiller.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, wholesaler, retailer or any
licensed or unlicensed business.
(Ord. 111610, passed 11-16-2010)
§ 132.02  VIOLATIONS; USE, POSSESSION AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess, purchase, barter,
give, publicly display, sell or offer for sale any illegal smoking product.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or possess an ingestion
device with the intent to inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into
the human body any illegal smoking product.
(Ord. 111610, passed 11-16-2010)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any term or provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be fined in an amount not less than $1
or more than $200. Every day a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense. Allegation and evidence of a culpable mental state is not required for
proof of an offense defined in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be an affirmative defense for a person charged with an
offense for possession or use of an illegal smoking product that the use or
possession was pursuant to the direction or prescription of a licensed
physician or dentist authorized to direct or prescribe such act.
(Ord. 111610, passed 11-16-2010)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
151.   UNSAFE, SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES
      
153.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Consent to enter premises
   
150.02   Residences in Business District
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01  CONSENT TO ENTER PREMISES.
 
  CITY OF BAIRD
  CODE COMPLIANCE
   
  Consent to Enter Premises
   
  I,                                                                  , (owner, occupant or lessees) do hereby grant
  consent to                                                            , Code Compliance Official for the City of
  Baird, Texas, to enter the premises located at                                                                      
                 , in the City of Baird, Callahan County, Texas, 79504, for the purpose of conducting an inspection to
  determine if any code violations exist within the premises.
   
                                                                                                                    
                       
  Owner, Occupant or Lessee                  Date/Time
   
                                                                                                                     
                       
  Officer for City of Baird                     Date/Time
   
   
                                                                                                                     
                       
  Witness (if any)                        Date/Time
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.02  RESIDENCES IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, the “business district” of the city is
defined as that area comprised of the city’s downtown main street known as
Market Street, including the alleyways on each side of said street, between
First and Fourth Streets.
   (B)   Except as allowed by this section, no person shall reside, occupy or
use any building, lot or area within the business district as a personal
residence.
   (C)   A single-family residence may be maintained within the business
district only if the following terms and conditions are met:
      (1)   The single-family residence is located within a building currently
used to conduct a business which is open to the general public.
      (2)   The single-family residence must be used by the person or family
actually conducting the business at the subject location.
      (3)   The single-family residence and the business being conducted at the
subject location must comply with all ordinances, codes and other governmental
laws regulating and/or affecting residences, business structures and dwellings.
   (D)   (1)   The City Marshal and/or Fire Chief, or their designees, are
charged with the duty of enforcing this section.
      (2)   The enforcing officer may seek the assistance of all other city
departments or other regulatory agencies to effectively enforce the terms of
this section.
(Ord. 042115, passed 3-17-2015)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
150.02 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200. Each day
such violation shall continue to be permitted shall be deemed as a separate
offense.
(Ord. 042115, passed 3-17-2015)
CHAPTER 151:  UNSAFE, SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Nuisance declared
   
151.03   Standards for repair or demolition
   
151.04   Standards for repair of residential structure
   
151.05   Commercial unsafe substandard structures
   
151.06   Abatement of structures constituting clear and present danger to
public
   
151.07   Enforcing officer; powers and duties
   
151.08   Assistance by other departments
   
151.09   No utilities to vacant dwellings
   
151.10   Securing unoccupied structures
   
151.11   Effective date
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  DEFINITION.
   (A)   All vacant structures, dwellings, dwelling units and accessory
structures which have any or all of the following defects shall be deemed
UNSAFE SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURES. Determination of unsafe substandard structures
shall be governed by the 2009 International Property Maintenance Code.
   (B)   In addition thereto, pursuant to Tex. Local Gov’t Code § 214.001, an
UNSAFE SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURE, which requires vacation, relocation of occupants,
securing, repair, removal or demolition is a structure that is:
      (1)   Dilapidated, substandard or unfit for human habitation and a hazard
to the public health, safety and welfare;
      (2)   Regardless of its structural condition, unoccupied by its owners,
lessees or other invitees and is unsecured from unauthorized entry to the
extent that it could be entered or used by vagrants or other uninvited persons
as a place of harborage or could be entered or used by children; or
      (3)   Boarded up, fenced or otherwise secured in any manner if:
         (a)   The building constitutes a danger to the public even though
secured from entry; or
         (b)   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building by vagrants or other uninvited
persons as a place of harborage or could be entered or used by children.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.02  NUISANCE DECLARED.
   All unsafe substance structures within the terms of §
151.01 of this chapter are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be
repaired, removed or demolished as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.03  STANDARDS FOR REPAIR OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed by the designated enforcing
officer and the City Council in ordering repair or demolition of an unsafe
substandard structure within the terms of §
151.01 of this chapter.
   (A)   If, after inspection by the designated enforcing officer and support
inspections from other concerned departments or divisions, if necessary, a
determination is made that the structure is an unsafe substandard structure,
the designated enforcing officer shall tag the structure and the owner shall be
ordered by a certified letter to contact the designated enforcing officer
within 15 days from the date of said letter. The owner shall be ordered, by
letter, to repair the structure or demolish said structure within 30 days.
   (B)   If a permit to repair or demolish said structure is not obtained from
the city and repairs or demolition are not completed within 45 days of the date
of the letter provided for in division (A) above, the designated enforcing
officer shall give notice, by letter, to the owner of said structure to appear
before the City Council to show cause why said structure should not be
demolished at the cost of the owner.
   (C)   If a structure is to be repaired such that it is no longer an unsafe
substandard structure under the terms of this chapter, said structure shall be
brought into compliance with the provisions of the 2009 International Property
Maintenance Code. Except as outlined in division (I) below, repairs to such
structures shall be completed and a certificate of occupancy issued within a
period not exceeding 150 days from the date of initiating the work. Upon
failure to obtain substantial completion within 90 days from the date of
initiating said work or failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy within the
150-day period, the structure may be brought before the City Council for a
condemnation order without further notice to the owner. An owner who initiates
repairs hereunder shall agree that unless the structure is brought into
compliance with the 2009 International Property Maintenance Code it may be
immediately brought before City Council for condemnation order without further
notice.
   (D)   Any vacant structure found to be an unsafe substandard structure, as
defined herein or substandard under this chapter, shall be posted as provided
in this chapter to prevent occupancy. It shall be unlawful for any person to
occupy, or allow others to occupy, a structure that has been tagged as an
unsafe substandard structure in accordance with this section. It shall be
unlawful for any person to violate or fail to comply with any provision of this
chapter.
   (E)   All notices, as provided herein, shall be served by delivering same to
the owner or agent in person, or by mailing the same certified to the residence
or business address, if known, of such owner or agent, or by posting the same
in a prominent place upon such structure.
   (F)   (1)   If, upon hearing, the City Council finds that the structure is
in violation of §
151.01 of this chapter, the City Council shall order the structure to be razed
or repaired at such time and under such conditions as the City Council may, in
its discretion, stipulate at said hearing.
      (2)   Such owner or his or her agent shall forthwith comply with said
order of the City Council. Any owner or his or her agent who fails to comply
with such order within the time therein stipulated shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
151.99 of this chapter.
      (3)   If the owner obtains a permit and voluntarily demolishes his or her
structure, such owner shall be exempt from payment of the landfill disposal fee
for the debris resulting from such demolition.
   (G)   If any such structure condemned by the order of the City Council, as
provided herein, is not razed or repaired within the time and under the
condition specified in such order, the Council may, at its discretion, proceed
to have the same razed and charge the actual expense to the owner of the real
estate or lot as shown on the tax roll. A statement of expenses incurred by the
city in the demolition and removal of such structure under this section shall
be mailed to the property owner shown on the tax roll at the time of service.
The statement of expenses shall, in addition to giving the amount of such
expense, provide the date upon which such work was done and description of the
lot or premises upon which such work was done. Payment is due and is considered
delinquent if not received by the city within 30 days. If payment is not made
within 90 days, the city’s authorized agent is hereby authorized to charge such
costs and expenses as a lien against the property upon which such structure was
situated, and upon all other property situated in the city belonging to the
owner of such structure.
      (1)   The lien obtained by the city is security for the expenditures made
and interest shall accrue at the rate of 10% annually on the unpaid balance due
from the date of payment by the city.
      (2)   The city may bring a suit for foreclosure in the name of the city
to recover the expenditures and interest due.
      (3)   The statement of expenses or a certified copy of the statement is
prima facie proof of the expenses incurred by the city in doing the work or
making the improvements and of proper notices as required by this chapter.
      (4)   The governing body of a city may foreclose a lien on property under
this section in a proceeding relating to the property brought under Tex. Tax
Code Ch. 33, Subch. E.
   (H)   Judicial review of Council’s order shall be governed by Tex. Local
Gov’t Code § 214.
   (I)   (1)   Structures that have been tagged as an unsafe and/or substandard
structure, which may be of historical significance, shall be provided
reasonable time for repairs and/or restoration. In order to qualify under the
historical structure requirement, the structure must meet one of the following
criteria:
         (a)   Existing or proposed recognition as a national historic
landmark, state historic landmark or entry or proposed entry into the national
register of historic place;
         (b)   Identification as the work of a designer, architect or builder
whose work has influenced the growth or development of the city; and/or
         (c)   Embodiment of elements of architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship which represents a significant architectural
innovation or an outstanding example of a particular historical, architectural
or other cultural style or period.
      (2)   The determination if a structure meets divisions (I)(1)(b) or (I)
(1)(c) above shall be determined by the City Council.
      (3)   The property owner of a tagged structure that meets one or more of
these criteria will be provided one year from the date the structure is tagged
to substantially complete repairs, as currently defined by the city, and one
additional year to obtain a certificate of occupancy (CO); provided, the City
Council approves a detailed work program outlining the work to be performed and
a timeline for completion. If either one of these time frames is not met, the
structure may be razed and demolished.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04  STANDARD FOR REPAIR OF RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE.
   Standard for repair of a residential structure shall comply with App. J,
Existing Buildings and Structures, of the 2009 International Residential Code.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.05  COMMERCIAL UNSAFE SUBSTANDARD STRUCTURES.
   All commercial unsafe substandard structures shall be repaired or replaced
to comply with the 2009 International Building Code and the 2009 International
Existing Building Code as required for existing buildings.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.06  ABATEMENT OF STRUCTURES CONSTITUTING CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER TO
PUBLIC.
   Notwithstanding all other provisions of this chapter, nothing herein shall
be deemed a limitation on the duty of the city to summarily order the
demolition of any vacant structure where it is apparent that the immediate
demolition of such structure is necessary for the preservation of life and
property in the city.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.07  ENFORCING OFFICER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Marshal and/or Fire Chief, or their designees, hereinafter referred
to as “enforcing officer”, is charged with the duty of enforcing this chapter.
   (A)   Neither the enforcing officer, nor any employee of his or her
division, shall be financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material
or appliances for the construction, alteration or maintenance of unsafe
substandard structure or in the making of plans and specifications for a profit
unless such person is the owner of such structure.
   (B)   Neither the enforcing officer, nor any employee of his or her
division, shall engage in any work which is in conflict with his or her duties
or the interest of the department.
   (C)   The enforcing officer shall enforce this chapter in the following
manner.
      (1)   The enforcing officer shall inspect or cause to be inspected, when
necessary, all structures of any kind which are unoccupied or apparently
abandoned, for the purpose of determining whether any condition exists which
renders such place an unsafe substandard structure within the terms of this
chapter.
      (2)   The enforcing officer shall inspect any structure about which a
complaint is filed by any person to the effect that a structure is or may be
existing in violation of this chapter.
      (3)   The enforcing officer shall notify in writing, by certified mail,
the owner and/or all persons having interest, as shown by the tax rolls of the
city, in any structure found by the enforcing officer to be an unsafe
substandard structure within the standards set forth in this chapter. Said
notice shall state:
         (a)   A description of the structure;
         (b)   A statement of the particulars which make the structure an
unsafe substandard structure;
         (c)   The owner must repair or demolish said structure;
         (d)   Any person notified under this division (C)(3) to repair or
demolish any structure shall be given reasonable time, as provided in this
chapter, to do or have done the work required by the notice; and
         (e)   The owner of said structure shall appear before the City Council
to show cause why said structure should not be repaired, removed or demolished.
      (4)   The enforcing officer shall also file a notice of declaration of
unsafe substandard structure in the deed records of the county. Such notice
will provide lawful notice to any proposed purchase of the property that the
structure thereon has been declared an unsafe substandard structure, may not be
lawfully occupied, may be subject to demolition and/or may not be eligible for
building permits necessary to rehabilitate the structure.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.08  ASSISTANCE BY OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   The enforcing officer may seek the assistance of all other city departments
in order to effectively enforce the terms of this chapter, and said departments
are to assist the enforcing officer in any way possible.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.09  NO UTILITIES TO VACANT DWELLINGS.
   No water, gas, electricity or sewer services shall be provided to any
structure found to be an unsafe substandard structure which is or becomes
vacant until such structure has been brought into compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.10  SECURING UNOCCUPIED STRUCTURES.
   (A)   An owner or person in control of an unoccupied structure shall ensure
that the building is in such condition that an unauthorized person cannot enter
into it through missing or unlocked doors or windows, or through other openings
into the building. The city may secure unoccupied, unsecured structures after
the owner(s) fail to do so after reasonable notice. A lien may be filed on the
structures to assure recovery of the cost of securing.
   (B)   An UNSECURED, UNOCCUPIED BUILDING is hereby defined to be any
structure that currently has no legitimate occupant or tenant and which has
missing or unlocked doors or windows, or other unsecured openings into the
building through which unauthorized persons can enter. Any unoccupied,
unsecured building is hereby declared to be a danger to the public health and
safety.
   (C)   Whenever it is found that an unoccupied building is in such condition
that an unauthorized person can enter it through missing or unlocked doors or
windows or other openings, the city shall cause a written notice or “notice to
secure” to be given to the owner of the property as such owner appears on the
tax rolls of the city or to the person having the control over the property.
Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given by depositing the notice in
the United States mail addressed to the owner at the owner’s post office
address. If notice cannot be obtained by United States mail or the owner’s post
office address is unknown, notice may be given by publishing such notice at
least twice within a ten-day period in a newspaper of general circulation in
the county. If notice cannot be obtained by mail or the owner’s post office
address is unknown, notice may be obtained by posting the notice on or near the
front door of the structure. The notice must contain the following information:
      (1)   An identification which is not required to be a legal description
for the structure and property on which it is located;
      (2)   The description of the violations that are present at the building;
      (3)   A statement that the city may secure the building within 30 days of
the date of notice; and
      (4)   An explanation that the owner is entitled to request a hearing
within such 30-day period concerning any matter relating to the city’s proposed
securing of the building.
   (D)   Compliance with the provisions concerning the securing of unoccupied
structures does not relieve the owner or occupant of the structure from the
requirement to comply with other provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   If the owner requests a hearing about the structure, the city shall
conduct a hearing at which the owner may testify or present witnesses or
written information about any matter relating to the proposed securing of the
structure by the city. The hearing shall be conducted within 20 days after the
day the owner files a written request for such hearing. The hearing shall be
before the Municipal Judge.
   (F)   If the owner fails to comply with a notice to secure, the city may
order the boarding up of all openings so as to prevent entry or the reasonable
securing of the structure by any other reasonable fashion and may assess the
expenses of such securing as a lien on the property as allowed by Tex. Local
Gov’t Code § 214.0011(f).
   (G)   Method of securing unoccupied structures shall be governed by the 2009
International Property Maintenance Code, App. A.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.11  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on the passage and approval of the City
Council and after publication as may be required by governing law.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Each such person deemed guilty of a violation of §
151.03(D) of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $2,000;
provided, where such fine is for an offense for which the state law imposes a
fine, the fine imposed by the Municipal Court shall be the same as the fine for
each such like offense under the state law. Each day any violation of any
provision of §
151.03(D) of this chapter continues after due notice has been served shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   An owner who fails to timely comply with a notice to secure as set out
in §
151.10 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50, nor more than $2,000. Each
day’s failure to comply after the expiration of the notice period shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 020130917A, passed 9-17-2013)
CHAPTER 152:  MOBILE HOMES
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Purposes and intent
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   City Council’s authority
   
152.04   Notices and orders
   
152.05   Deed restriction affidavits
   
152.06   Notices, hearings and orders
   
152.07   Locations within city
   
152.08   Fees
Requirements Concerning Manufactured Homes on Single Lots
   
152.20   Standards of transportation and installation
   
152.21   Placement standard
   
152.22   Placement inspections for single lots
   
152.23   Utility disconnections
   
152.24   Timely applications
   
152.25   Applications
   
152.26   Finalization of placement permits
   
152.27   Finalized placement permit required for occupancy
Mobile Home Parks and Recreational Vehicles
   
152.40   Title, purpose and scope
   
154.41   Definitions
   
152.42   Mobile home park requirements
   
152.43   Recreational vehicle prohibitions
   
152.44   Penalties, notices, hearings and orders
 
   
152.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:  Application for placement of manufactured or mobile homes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  PURPOSES AND INTENT.
   The design and use of manufactured housing is an important factor in the
choice of housing availability and becomes a public responsibility because
public services must be provided. The city desires a harmonious community and
recognizes that the health, safety and welfare of all it citizens must be fully
preserved and protected. Therefore, the purpose and intent of this chapter is
to provide safe, sanitary and suitable methods of construction and operation of
manufactured homes and to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  Any structural structure addition to a manufactured
home including, without limitation, awnings, cabanas, Florida rooms, porches,
armadas, storage cabinets and similar appurtenant structures.
   APPROVED.  An approval by the City Council which may be granted if the City
Council finds that the item is suitable for its intended purpose and is not
dangerous or detrimental to life, safety or welfare of people or property
except as otherwise provided in this chapter. Such finding shall be based on
the results of investigation or tests conducted by or on behalf of the City
Council, accepted principals of safety, or the results of tests by reliable
national or state authorities, or technical or scientific organizations.
   CITY COUNCIL.  The City Council of the city. The City Council or its
designated representative shall be responsible for the implementation and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. City Council members are the
city’s legislators which includes identifying the needs of the local residents,
formulating programs to meet the changing requirements of the community and
measuring the effectiveness of ongoing municipal services.
   HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, constructed on or after June 15,
1976, according to the rules of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, transportable in one or more sections, which in the
traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width and 40 or more feet in
length or when erected on site is 320 square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, which includes
the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK or MOBILE HOME PARK.  A contiguous development of
land that has been planned and improved for the placement or replacement of
manufactured homes on spaces for rental or lease with three or more
manufactured/mobile homes.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING or MANUFACTURED HOME.  A HUD-code manufactured home or
a mobile home as defined in this section. It is specifically understood that
when the term is used, such term shall collectively mean and refer to both HUD-
code manufacture homes and mobile homes.
   MOBILE HOME.  A structure that was constructed before June 15, 1976,
transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight
body feet or more in width and 40 or more feet in length or when erected on
site is 320 square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed
to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected
to the required utilities, which includes the plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning and electrical systems.
   OCCUPIED AREA.  That area or an individual manufactured home space or lot
that has been covered by a manufactured home and its accessory structures.
   REPLACED.  Any relocation of a manufactured home whether upon the same lot
or tract of land or from one lot or tract of land to another.
   STREET.  Includes the terms “interior street” or “interior streets” and
means any street, alley, avenue, lane, boulevard or drive within the boundaries
of the manufactured home.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.03  CITY COUNCIL’S AUTHORITY.
   Except as otherwise specified in this chapter, the City Council or their
designee shall be the permit and license issuance officer for all permits and
licenses required pursuant to this chapter. The City Council shall prescribe
forms therefore including all information reasonably and necessarily required
for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. The City Council shall
also be authorized to perform all inspections necessary for the enforcement of
this chapter. The City Council shall also have the authority to establish
reasonable and necessary administrative rules and regulations relating to the
performance of the duties under this chapter such as the place where permit
applications will be received and the times when inspections will be made.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.04  NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   The City Council shall have the authority to issue all necessary notices or
orders to remove or abate illegal or unsafe conditions and to ensure compliance
with all requirements of this chapter for the safety, health and general
welfare of the public.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.05  DEED RESTRICTION AFFIDAVITS.
   (A)   In addition to any other applicable requirements specified therefore,
each person making application pursuant to this chapter for a manufactured home
placement permit pertaining to a manufactured home to be situated within the
incorporated city limits of the city shall furnish the City Council with an
affidavit setting forth that the applicant is familiar with the title to the
real property to which the requested permit appertains and that the applicant’s
intended use thereof will not violate any valid and applicable deed restriction
or covenant running with the land. The City Council may not issue the requested
permit unless such affidavit has been duly submitted.
   (B)   All permits and approvals for occupancy issued pursuant to this
chapter are hereby made expressly subject to applicable deed restrictions and
covenants running with the land to which they pertain and no such permit or
approvals for occupancy shall be construed as authorizing any violation
thereof.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.06  NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council has reasonable grounds to believe there has
been a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the City Council
shall give written notice of the alleged violation to the person in violation
of this chapter. Such notice shall give the reason for its issuance, allow a
reasonable time (not to exceed ten business days) to perform the acts it
requires, be served upon the violator or his or her agent (such notice shall be
deemed properly served upon the violator or agent when a copy has been sent by
registered mail to his or her last known address, or when he or she has been
served with notice by any method authorized by the laws of the state), and
contain remedial action which will bring compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person who has been refused or denied a permit required by this
chapter or who is affected by notice issued in connection with enforcement of
any provision of this chapter may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the City Council. Such person shall file with the City Council a
written request for a hearing and shall give a brief statement of the grounds
within ten business days after the day the notice was served. The filing of
this request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and the
suspension, except in the case of an order issued under the emergency
provisions of this section. Upon receipt of such hearing request, the City
Council shall set a time and place for the hearing and shall give the person
written notice. At the hearing, the person shall be given the opportunity to
show why the notice should be modified or withdrawn. The City Council may
postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond the ten-day
period when the person affected has requested it and has given sufficient
reason for the postponement.
   (C)   After the hearing, the City Council shall make findings as to
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and shall issue an order in
writing sustaining, modifying or reversing the decision. Council’s order shall
be served as provided in this section. Upon failure to comply with Council’s
order within the specified time period, the permit shall be revoked.
   (D)   The proceedings at a hearing, including the findings and order of the
City Council, together with a copy of every notice and related order, shall be
entered as a matter of public record in the office of the City Secretary. Any
person aggrieved by the decision of the City Council may seek relief in a court
of competent jurisdiction as provided by the laws of the state.
   (E)   Whenever the City Council finds that an emergency exists which
required immediate action to protect the public health or safety, they may,
without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring that such action be taken, as they may deem necessary
to meet the emergency. Such order shall be effective immediately, but upon
written request to the City Council, shall be given a hearing as soon as
possible. The provisions of the proceeding divisions of this section shall
apply to such hearing and the order issued thereafter.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.07  LOCATIONS WITHIN CITY.
   (A)   Subject to lawful compliance with this section, a HUD-code
manufactured home may be placed, replaced or permitted to remain within the
city only as follows:
      (1)   A HUD-code manufactured home lawfully placed and occupying a site
inside the city limits on the effective date of this chapter shall be allowed
to remain.
      (2)   A mobile home used or occupied as a residential dwelling on the
effective date of this chapter may be replaced with a HUD-code manufactured
home.
      (3)   A HUD-code manufactured home legally permitted used or occupied as
a residential dwelling, and located within the city limits may be replaced with
another HUD-code manufactured home.
      (4)   A HUD-code manufactured home may be placed on a tract or lot within
the city limits in accordance with this chapter.
      (5)   A HUD-code manufactured home may be placed on a single trace or lot
within the city limits with approval of the City Council.
   (B)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no permit shall be
issued for placement or installation of a mobile home within the incorporated
city limits; however, a permit shall be issued for a HUD-code manufactured home
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No manufactured home may be permitted to remain in violation of any
valid and applicable deed restriction or covenant running with the land.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, use occupy or connect
utilities to a manufactured home at any location not authorized by this chapter
or to permit or suffer any manufactured home to remain within the city limits
in any location not authorized by this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a manufactured home on any
street, alley, highway, sidewalk or other public place within the city limits.
   (F)   Utility connections shall not be approved and occupancy of the HUD-
code manufactured home shall not be allowed until all requirements of this
chapter, and all other applicable ordinances and regulations, are complied
with.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08  FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the fees set forth in this subchapter, all other
applicable inspection and permit fees set forth in this chapter and in the
Building Code must be tendered to the city with the application.
   (B)   The following fees are hereby imposed pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter:
      (1)   Permit fee: $25;
      (2)   Inspection of placement of manufactured home on single lot: $150;
and
      (3)   Re-inspection of placement of manufactured home on single lot:
$100.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING MANUFACTURED HOMES ON SINGLE LOTS
§ 152.20  STANDARDS OF TRANSPORTATION AND INSTALLATION.
   (A)   A mobile home mover must be permitted by the Texas Department of
Transportation in accordance with the laws of the state.
   (B)   Only an installer who is licensed by the Texas Department of Housing
and Community Affairs may install a mobile home in accordance with the laws of
the state.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.21  PLACEMENT STANDARD.
   (A)   Placement of all HUD-code manufactured homes on single lots shall be
such that the manufactured home is not less than 25 feet from any property
boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway not less than eight feet
from any other property boundary line and not less than ten feet from any other
structure. Not more than one HUD-code manufactured home shall be placed on each
lot and each lot must be at least 50 feet by 125 feet (50' x 125') in size.
Since lots and acres are different in width and length size, the final written
approval for each mobile home placement will be determined on an individual
basis, by the City Council, after placement drawings and/or surveys, in
addition to any other specified documents required by this chapter have been
submitted and all applicable fees have been paid to the city.
      (1)   The design of the HUD-code manufactured home must be compatible
with other dwellings in the area when compared to dwellings within a 1,500-foot
radius measured from the corner of each lot/tract upon which the manufactured
home will be placed. For purposes of this provision, a HUD-code manufactured
home is deemed compatible if the materials that are used for its exterior
roofing and exterior siding are similar to the materials used on one or more
dwellings in the prescribed radius; provided, however, that a HUD-code
manufactured home may still be deemed compatible even if these specific
characteristics are not present.
      (2)   The HUD-code manufactured home shall have a minimum width of 16
feet and a minimum length of 40 feet; minimum square footage shall be 890
square feet.
      (3)   The tires, wheels, and suspension components of axels, shackles,
springs and other protrusions beneath the frame must be removed.
      (4)   The HUD-code manufactured home must be permanently attached to a
permanent foundation that conforms to the requirements of the Texas Department
Of Housing and Community Affairs.
      (5)   A drawn plan indicating the proposed setback and other requirements
of this chapter must be submitted to the city in addition to survey, clear
deed, and plat information for councils review and approval.
      (6)   Guardrails constructed to prevent the passage of a four-inch sphere
shall be required for a porch that is more than 30 inches above grade.
      (7)   The front door shall face the lot frontage, except when lot width
is too narrow.
      (8)   All entrances to a mobile home shall be provided with permanent
steps of pre-cast concrete, cemented bricks, or treated lumber, properly laid.
The entrance to an attached deck or similar extension shall be considered as an
entrance to a mobile home.
   (B)   All manufactured homes on single lots shall be required to conform to
the skirting requirements as specified in this chapter. All manufactured home
owners shall construct, provide or cause to be constructed or provided,
adequate skirting around the lower outer perimeters of each manufactured home
and attached structure or addition to each manufactured home. Such skirting
shall be in place 60 days after occupancy of individual homes.
      (1)   Skirting shall be constructed of material deemed acceptable by City
Council. Skirting must be suitable for outdoor exposure and contact with the
ground. Plastic, or cloth of any type, shrubbery or shrubbery hedges shall not
be acceptable.
      (2)   Skirting shall completely surround the outer perimeters of the
manufactured home and attached structures or additions.
      (3)   Skirting shall be constructed in a manner so as to be permanently
affixed in place around the manufactured home.
      (4)   Skirting must extend from the bottom of the manufactured home to
the ground, with a height of no greater than three inches above ground level.
      (5)   Skirting may contain openings in the material used, but such
openings shall not permit the passage of a sphere six inches in diameter.
      (6)   The area enclose by skirting may not be used for storage and must
be kept free of debris at all times.
   (C)   HUD-code manufactured homes on single lots must have a driveway with
off-street parking for a minimum of two vehicles. This parking may not be a
grassy area but must be improved with all-weather surface material such as
flexible base, concrete or asphalt.
   (D)   The address must be posted and visible from the street in front of the
home.
   (E)   State license law requires that a licensed plumbing contractor do all
the plumbing hookup of any HUD-code manufactured home. The city requires, in
accordance with state law, that all plumbing hook-up work be conducted by a
licensed plumbing contractor. Verification of this requirement must be
delivered to the inspector.
   (F)   Sewer connections must meet the following requirements:
      (1)   A four-inch line with a four-inch trap;
      (2) A four-inch two-way cleanout downstream of trap;
      (3)   Connection to trap shall be air tight and made by mechanical means;
and
      (4)   Cleanout and trap shall be no more than four feet from the mobile
home. Trap and cleanout may be under home only if there is a minimum 18 inches
vertical and 30 inches horizontal clearance.
   (G)   Water connections must meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Shall not be less than 3/4 nominal size;
      (2)   Shall have an accessible shut-off valve, within four feet of the
mobile home;
      (3)   Connection shall be made with PVC, copper, or qest, pex or
equivalent; and
      (4)   Above grade connecting line from valve to home hook-up must be
insulated.
   (H)   Gas connections must meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Gas piping shall be rigid black pipe and shall be the same size as
the mobile home inlet;
      (2)   No gas lines may be buried under the mobile home;
      (3)   Each mobile home equipped for gas shall have a gas valve and
electrically insulated union upstream of said valve;
      (4)   The riser shall be so located so that the horizontal piping from
the riser to the mobile home does not exceed four feet;
      (5)   All gas piping shall be tested at a pressure not less than ten
inches nor more than 14 inches water column and the appliance connections
tested for leakage with soapy water or bubble solution; and
      (6)   LP gas connections (specific rules):
         (a)   In general, LP tanks shall be placed in accordance with LP-gas
safety rules on file with the Texas Secretary of State’s office.
         (b)   Specifically, LP gas tanks shall not be placed closer than:
            1.   Ten feet from adjoining property lines;
            2.   Ten feet from roadways, highways, railroads, pipelines or
utility right-of-ways including drainage easements;
            3.   Ten feet from the HUD-code manufactured home (if the ten-foot
distance from HUD-code manufactured home cannot be obtained, the Director of
Public works may, in accordance with state law, reduce the minimum to as little
as three feet; and
            4.   Ten feet from any source of ignition.
   (I)   Electrical requirements must meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Power supply: must be permanent installation or of cord assembly
type.
      (2)   Power cord assembly: must not be more than one 50 amperes, factor
molded cord cap. Length of such assembly shall not exceed 36.5 feet in total
length nor should be shorter than 21 feet. Cord assembly must be marked “for
use with mobile home-50 amperes” or ‘for use with mobile home-40 amperes”.
      (3)   Meter loop: point of attachment from utility company shall be a
minimum of ten feet above finished grade.
      (4)   Disconnect: shall be a minimum of 100 amperes for gas homes and
weatherproof. Shall be a minimum of 200 amperes for all-electric homes and
weather-proof.
      (5)   Underground feeders: wires or cables shall be protected by metallic
conduit where exposed to physical damage.
      (6)   Ditches: underground installation shall be a minimum of 18 inches
deep.
      (7)   Wire sizes: minimum fused service shall be 100 amperes, three each
#4 THHN/THWN with one #8 AWG for ground to service the mobile home facility. An
eight-foot ground rod must be driven and bonded to service disconnect, meter
base, and HUD-code manufactured home with continuous continuity.
      (8)   Central air outside the home shall be connected by separate 100 amp
service.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.22  PLACEMENT INSPECTIONS FOR SINGLE LOTS.
   (A)   Each HUD-code manufactured home placed or replaced on a single lot
within the city shall be inspected by the City Council or its designee to
determine that its placement is in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. A fee for such placement inspection is hereby established and shall be
collected in the amount specified in §
152.08. In consideration of such fee, the applicant shall be entitled to the
original inspection of the placement of the manufactured home and one re-
inspection for deficiencies, if required. An additional fee, as specified in §
152.08, is hereby imposed and shall be collected for the third and each
subsequent re-inspection due to deficiencies concerning the manufactured home
or its placement.
   (B)   The purpose of a placement permit under this chapter is to ensure that
the manufacture home has been situated in a location that complies with this
chapter, has been located so that it is in compliance with applicable setbacks
and meets other municipal regulations that are enforceable by the city with
respect to the use and occupancy of manufactured homes. No provision of this
chapter shall be construed to require a city imposed inspection of the
“installation” of the manufacture home as that term is defined by Tex. Revised
Civil Statues article 522If, section (3). The City Council may conduct
installation inspections on behalf of the state if so authorized by the Texas
Department of Housing and Community Affairs, but no city permit or fee shall be
imposed for that service.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.23  UTILITY DISCONNECTIONS.
   (A)   When any utility service to a manufacture home is disconnected it
shall be the duty of the utility company to disconnect, lock, seal or otherwise
prevent the unauthorized connection or reconnection of such utility service.
   (B)   A manufactured home which has not been replaced but which has had any
utility service disconnected thereto may reconnect to such utility services
provided that a permit has previously been issued and finalized for such
manufactured home at the site on which it is located.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.24  TIMELY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   For manufactured homes placed or replaced on a lot application must be
made a least 45 days prior to the time of placement or replacement.
   (B)   No manufactured home may be placed or replaced upon a site until and
unless application for a placement permit has first been made therefore.
   (C)   No application for a placement permit may be made for any manufactured
home, which is to be connected to public water or sewer services until
application has been made for such services and the availability thereof has
been established.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.25  APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring a placement permit for a manufactured home on a
single lot shall make application upon one or more forms prescribed by the City
Council setting forth:
      (1)   The statement of ownership of the person having title to the
manufactured home;
      (2)   The proposed location of the manufactured home by legal
description, lot plan, diagram or other means which is adequate to advise the
City Council of the exact placement location contemplated and its relationship
to the property lines and other structures;
      (3)   The County Clerk’s recording information for the plat thereof if
the manufactured home is to be placed in one of the areas authorized by this
ordinance or if the manufactured home is being replaced on a lot;
      (4)   The utilities to be provided to the manufactured home and the
source and availability thereof;
      (5)   Any additional information the City Council requires may be added
to the form to aid the Council in the enforcement of this chapter or other laws
applicable to manufactured homes; and
      (6)   Permit fee of $25.
   (B)   The owner of the manufactured home or his or her agent and the owner
of the land on which the manufactured home is to be located shall sign the
application.
   (C)   In any instance which the application is for a permit relating to the
placement of a new “HUD-code manufactured home,” as that item is defined by
Tex. Revised Civil Statues article 5221f, then the City Council shall ensure
that the application is acted upon and the applicant is given written notice of
the approval or denial within 45 days of the filing of the application,
including notice of the grounds if the application is denied. If the foregoing
action is not taken by the 45th day following the filing of the application,
then the permit is deemed granted. Notice is considered to be given when placed
in the mail, addressed to the address as stated in the application.
   (D)   Application to remove a mobile home must be made with the city 45 days
prior to removal. A permit to remove the mobile home shall be $25. The mobile
home cannot be moved unless all utilities are paid in full. All disconnections
must be made with all utility companies after the utilities are paid.
See application for placement of manufactured homes in
Appendix A .
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.26  FINALIZATION OF PLACEMENT PERMITS.
   A placement permit shall be finalized by the City Council and occupancy of
the manufactured home shall be authorized only when:
   (A)   The applicant has obtained all applicable permits and inspections
under this chapter;
   (B)   The applicant has complied with all other applicable provisions of
this chapter;
   (C)   The City Council or its designee has inspected the placement of the
manufactured home and has found its placement is in accordance with the
provisions in this chapter; and
   (D)   The City Council or its designee has found that the manufactured home
and its placement meet all applicable requirements of the city’s ordinances and
all state laws, which may be enforced by the city.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
§ 152.27  FINALIZED PLACEMENT PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OCCUPANCY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or occupy in whole or in part any
manufactured home which has been placed or replaced on a single lot within the
incorporated city limits of the city until and unless the placement permit
therefore has been issued and finalized.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015) Penalty, see §
152.99
MOBILE HOME PARKS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
§ 152.40 TITLE, PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared that the purpose and intent of this chapter is
to regulate, control and limit public nuisances and other conditions and
circumstances as herein set forth that adversely affect the health, safety or
welfare of the general public, and that adversely affect community appearance,
orderly development and property values.
   (B)   It is further declared that the Texas Occupations Code, Chapter 1202,
Subchapter F, reserves the authority to municipalities to regulate land use and
zoning requirements, building setback requirements, site planning and
development and property line requirements, subdivision control, landscape
architectural requirements; and regulate the on-site construction or
instillation of modular homes.
   (C)   This subchapter shall apply to all mobile home parks and recreational
vehicles located in the city.
   (D)   If any other ordinance of the city conflicts with this subchapter and
the standards and regulations established herein, the higher or stricter
standard or regulation shall prevail.
(Ord. 031720, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 152.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, constructed on or after June 15,
1976, according to the rules of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development, transportable in one or more sections, which in the
traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width and 40 or more feet in
length or when erected on site is 320 square feet, and which is built on a
permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, which includes
the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems.
   MOBILE HOME PARK (MANUFACTURED HOME PARK).  A contiguous development of land
planned or improved for the placement of HUD-Code manufactured homes and or
recreational vehicles on spaces for lease or rent with two or more spaces in an
area determined appropriate by the city and meeting all requirements of this
chapter, any other applicable ordinances, deed restrictions and state law.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  Any and every motorized or non-motorized device in,
upon or by which a person, persons, or property is or may be transported, drawn
or moved upon a street, highway, waterway or airway, that is primarily designed
as temporary use or living quarters for recreational use, camping or travel and
shall include, but is not limited to motor homes, travel trailers, camping
trailers, pop- up tent trailers, truck campers, camper shells and fifth-wheel
trailers.
(Ord. 031720, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 152.42 MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All mobile home parks planned, designed, constructed and or opening in
the city of Baird after the adoption of this chapter, and any extension and or
addition to an existing mobile home park in the city, shall make written
application to the city for a permit and for approval of a site plan for the
mobile home park.
   (B)   All applications for mobile home parks must be submitted in writing on
forms approved by the city and must be accompanied by a site plan and a non-
refundable site plan review fee of $250. Mobile home parks and any permit
application therefor shall be subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   A site plan, design, dimensions, and development plans to scale, to
include:
         (a)   The property owners name, mailing address, telephone number,
developers name, mailing address and telephone number;
         (b)   Location and address where park is to be located;
         (c)   Names of abutting and adjacent public streets;
         (d)   Number of spaces, space numbering and space dimensions;
         (e)   Utility easements, driveways, streets, sidewalks and
recreational areas;
         (f)   Water and sewer plans depicting line locations, grade, size and
supply source;
         (g)   Paving and drainage plans depicting directions and proposed
specifications of runoff; and
         (h)   Park maintenance and improvements plan.
      (2)   Office. Every mobile home park shall have an office within the
park, and shall be responsible for all registrations, occupancy, and
maintenance of the park, and keep records thereof.
      (3)   Streets. All internal streets shall be constructed to the city’s
standards and specifications. All internal streets shall be privately owned,
built, and maintained by the mobile home park.
      (4)   Density. A mobile home park shall have no more than ten spaces per
acre.
      (5)   Spacing. HUD-Code manufactured homes must have a minimum of 20 feet
from the distance of any exterior wall to the closest exterior wall of the
nearest manufactured home.
      (6)   Parking. Spaces must be constructed to provide a minimum of two
off-street parking places within each space.
      (7)   Utilities. Each space shall have its own separate utility
connection for water, sewer, telephone, electricity, and gas, unless otherwise
unavailable to site.
      (8)   Disposal. Method of garbage and refuse disposal.
      (9)   Property restrictions. Any deed or other property restrictions
affecting the property and location for the mobile home park.
      (10)   Compliance. Confirmation that all HUD-Code manufactured homes and
or recreational vehicles placed on or located in the mobile home park will be
in compliance with all other manufactred home ordinances adopted and amended by
the city from time to time.
   (C)   Following submission of the permit application, site plan and the site
plan review fee, the city shall conduct its review, including requests for
additional information and any inspections, within a reasonable amount of time
and either approve or deny the application. If the application is approved, the
city will issue the permit to operate the mobile home park after payment of a
permit fee of $500.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or entity to operate a
mobile home park within the city without first obtaining a valid permit issued
by the city.
(Ord. 031720, passed 3-17-2020)
§152.43 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PROHIBITIONS
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or entity to park, place or
allow any type of recreational vehicle on any public street, alley, sidewalk,
highway or public property within the city for a period of more than 36
continuous hours, and the presence of such recreational vehicle upon any public
street, alley, sidewalk, highway or property after the expiration of such 36-
hour period is hereby declared illegal, to be a public nuisance, and subject to
removal by the city.
   (B)   The shall be unlawful for any person, firm or entity to park or permit
the parking of a recreational vehicle on any lot or tract of land within the
city limits of the City of Baird, whenever such recreational vehicle is being
used or occupied as a residence. This prohibition shall not apply to a
recreational vehicle which is located in a duly permitted mobile home park.
   (C)   The City Administrator may issue a temporary one-week permit to the
property owner, allowing the parking, placement or occupancy of a recreational
vehicle on any lot or tract of land within the city limits currently being
occupied as a residential dwelling when it is determined that such temporary
occupancy would have no signifigant impact on surrounding properties and
sufficient grounds are shown therefor. After the seventh day, a temporary
permit fee of $50 may be charged. All periods expected to extend longer than
two weeks must be approved and permitted by City Council.
(Ord. 031720, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 152.44 PENALTIES, NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or entity violating any of the provisions of this
chapter or any amendment thereto shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction in Municipal Court shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the
sum of $500 for each offense, and each and every day such violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the Municipal Court process provided above, whenever
the city has reasonable grounds to believe there has been a violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, the city may give written notice of the alleged
violation to the person in violation of this chapter. Such notice shall give
the reason for its issuance, allow a reasonable time to perform the acts as the
city requires, be served upon the violator or agent (such notice shall be
deemed properly served upon the violator or agent when a copy has been sent by
certified mail to the last known address, or when service is by any method
authorized by the laws of the State of Texas), and contain remedial action
which will bring compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person who has been refused or denied a permit required by this
chapter or who is affected by notice issued in connection with enforcement of
any provision of this chapter may request and shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the City Council. Such person shall file with the City Council a
written request for a hearing and shall give a brief statement of the grounds
within ten business days after the day the notice was served. The filing of
this request for a hearing shall operate as a stay of the notice and the
remedial action, except in the case of an order issued under the emergency
provisions of this section. Upon receipt of such hearing request, the City
Council shall set a time and place for the hearing and shall give the person
written notice. At the hearing, the person shall be given the opportunity to
show why the notice should be modified or withdrawn. The City Council may
postpone the date of the hearing for a reasonable time beyond the ten-day
period when the person affected has requested it and has given sufficient
reason for the postponement.
   (D)   After the hearing, the City Council shall make findings as to
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and shall issue an order in
writing sustaining, modifying or reversing the decision. Council’s order shall
be served as provided in this section. Upon failure to comply with the
Council’s order within the specified time period, the permit shall be revoked
and or the recreational vehicle removed. The proceedings at a hearing,
including the findings and order of the City Council, together with a copy of
every notice and related order, shall be entered as a matter of public record
in the office of the City Administrator. Any person aggrieved by the decision
of the City Council may seek relief in a court of competent jurisdiction as
provided by the laws of the State of Texas.
   (E)   Whenever the City Council finds that an emergency exists which
required immediate action to protect the public health or safety, they may,
without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such an
emergency and requiring that such action be taken, as they may deem necessary
to meet the emergency. Such order shall be effective immediately, but upon
written request to the City Council, shall be given a hearing as soon as
possible. The provisions of the proceeding paragraphs of this section shall
apply to such hearing and the Council’s order issued thereafter.
(Ord. 031720, passed 3-17-2020)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not less than $50 or more than $500 per day, until such time as the
violations are removed or corrected.
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
APPENDIX A:  APPLICATION FOR PLACEMENT OF MANUFACTURED OR MOBILE HOMES
Seventy-Two (72) hour notice must be given of Manufactured Homes being moved in
or out of the City of Baird.
Section A
Date:                      Name of Applicant:   
Owner of Lot:    
Physical Address of Lot:    
Section B
Owner of Manufactured Home:    
Description of Home (including dimensions):    
Section C
Manufacturer of Home:    
Serial # or Identification # of Home:    
Date Home Manufactured:    
Section D
Name of Manufactured Home Mover:    
Address of Manufactured Home Mover:    
State License or Permit Number:    
Copy of Movers Liability Insurance Must Be Attached to This Form
Section E
The following information must be in the form of attachments to this
application:
Proposed location of lot where mobile home will be:
(1)   Legal description
(2)   Lot plan
(3)   Diagram
(4)   Exact placement of property lines and other structures
(5)   Legal plat of land that has been recorded at County Clerk’s Office
Section F
City Utilities to be Provided:
(1)   All deposits must be paid for water/sewer/sanitation
(2)   Proof showing Electrical Service is established at location
(3)   All connections must be in place correctly
(4)   Utilities must be disconnected and paid in full when moving home out
A placement permit shall be finalized by the City Council and occupancy of the
manufactured home shall be authorized when:
1.   The applicant has obtained all applicable permits and inspections under
this chapter.
2.   The applicant has complied with all other applicable provisions of this
chapter.
3.   The City Council has inspected the placement of the manufactured home and
has found its placement is in accordance with this chapter.
4.   The City Council has found that the manufacture home and its placement
meet all applicable requirements of the City’s ordinances and all state laws
that may be enforced by the City.
Application must be signed by manufactured home owner and owner of lot where
home is to be located.
The undersigned applicant certifies that all the information provided herein,
including any documents submitted herewith, is true and correct. Said applicant
understands and agrees the City of Baird will rely on the information and
documents provided by the applicant in determining the applicant’s compliance
with all applicable ordinances, and providing false or inaccurate information
to the City will be grounds for denial or revocation of the placement permit,
and possible additional legal action.
Signature of Manufactured Home Owner/Owners                Date
Signature of Lot Owner/Owners                            Date
(Ord. 072115, passed 7-21-2015)
CHAPTER 153:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Statutory authorization
   
153.02   Findings of fact
   
153.03   Statements of purpose
   
153.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
153.05   Definitions
   
153.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
153.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
153.08   Development permit
   
153.09   Compliance
   
153.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.11   Interpretation
   
153.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
153.25   Floodplain Administrator
   
153.26   Permit procedures
   
153.27   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
153.40   General standards
   
153.41   Specific standards
   
153.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Floods, see Tex. Water Code § 16.315
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in the Flood Control Insurance Act, Tex.
Water Code § 16.315, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City
Council does ordain as follows.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.04  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, Al-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the flood insurance rate
map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying flood insurance study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30 or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year. Also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M
and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after 12-31-1974, whichever is later, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes,
NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light-
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued; provided, the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before start of construction of the improvement. This term
includes structures, which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements, see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications or
other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3),
(e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.06  LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard with the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) or flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM), the community identification number, date of latest FIRM
or FHBM and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.08  DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.11  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.12  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. passed - -)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.25  FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The position or title of the appointed Floodplain Administrator (i.e.,
code enforcement officer) is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of 44 C.F.R. (Emergency Management and Assistance - National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1344) from which prior approval is
required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is the state’s Water Development Board (TWDB) and
also the state’s Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
153.07 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
§§
153.40 through
153.42 of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.26  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be flood- proofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the non-residential flood-proofed structure shall meet the flood-proofing
criteria of §
153.41(B) of this chapter;
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
division (B) below.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.27  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level; providing, the relevant factors in §
153.26 of this chapter have been fully considered. As the lot size increases
beyond the one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the
variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (§
153.03 of this chapter).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. passed - -)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 153.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
153.07,
153.25(B)(8) and
153.42(C) of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as proposed in
§
153.26(A)(1) of this chapter is satisfied.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
flood-proofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize
flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces;
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this division (D) be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.42  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
153.02,
153.03 and
153.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
153.08,
153.26 and this subchapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
153.07 and
153.25(B)(8) of this chapter.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court order
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this court
order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court order or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500 for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
Council from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(Ord. passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
      
II.   AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
III.   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
      
IV.   ELECTIONS
      
V.   TAXATION AND BUDGETS
TABLE I:  VACATIONS AND CLOSINGS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Closing a 20-foot alley lying between Lots 13, 14,
-             12-23-1996  15, 16, 17 and 18 of Block C, replat of North Village
                          Addition
-             3-18-1997   Closing portions of Tracts 1, 2 and 3, Newlon’s
                          Addition
-             1-18-2000   Closing a section of West Fifth Street
                          Closing an alley located between Lots 22, 23 and 24,
52102         5-21-2002   North Village Addition, and Lot 21, North Village
                          Addition
                         
 
TABLE II:  AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
                          Approving general service rates for natural gas sales
72401         7-24-2001   and distribution (TXU Gas Distribution of TXU Gas
                          Company)
11152005      11-15-2005  Denying a request for rate adjustment (Atmos Energy
                          Corporation, Mid-Tex Division)
52306         5-23-2006   Denying a request for rate adjustment (Atmos Energy
                          Corporation, Mid-Tex Division)
                         
 
TABLE III:  REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
Res. -        6-18-2002   Adopting a property tax exemption for Baird Lodge No.
                          522
                          Authorizing the Economic Development Corporation
032814        3-28-2014   (Type A) to undertake any project that a Type B
                          corporation may undertake
                         
 
TABLE IV:  ELECTIONS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
-             4-4-1999    Canceling the 5-1-1999 general election
                          Ordering an election to submit a proposition on the
71712         7-17-2012   question of the adoption of a Section 4B sales and
                          use tax
                         
 
TABLE V:  TAXATION AND BUDGETS
 
Ord./Res. No. Date Passed Description
9-605         9-6-2005    Levying an ad valorem tax for 2005-2006 at a rate of
                          $0.78110 per $100 on all taxable property
091713        9-17-2013   Adopting the 2013-2014 annual budget
091614        9-16-2014   Adopting the 2014-2015 annual budget
                         
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
 
Texas Code Cites   Code Section
Code of Criminal Procedure
Article 45.059     130.99
Article 102.017    32.01
Article 102.017(d) 32.01
Article 2.12       93.01
                   
 
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Gov’t Code
Ch. 418          30.02
855.407(g)       31.02
                 
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Health and Safety Code
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Health and Safety Code
                 70.001,
Ch. 365          90.04,
                 90.05
822              93.01
822.101          93.01
826.021 et seq.  93.08
826.041 et seq.  93.06
826.042          93.06
882.101-882.116  93.17
                 
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Local Gov’t Code
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Local Gov’t Code
Ch. 53           10.01
54.001           10.17,
                 10.99
Ch. 214          151.03
214.001          151.01
214.0011(f)      151.10
215.026          93.13
215.026(c)       93.13
370.002          130.15
                 
 
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Occupations Code
Chapter 2154     92.15,
                 92.24
2154.001         92.15
2102, Subch. F   152.40
                 
 
 
Texas Code Cites   Code Section
Penal Code
Titles 1 through 3 10.05
Ch. 47          114.08
                   
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Revised Civil Statutes
Texas Code Cites        Code Section
Revised Civil Statutes
Article 5221f           152.25
Article 522If(3)        152.22
Article 6701d,  § 24(a70.067
Article 6701d, § 54A   70.057
Article 6701d, § 124   70.008,
                        70.068
Article 6701d, §169(b) Ch. 71
                        
 
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Tax Code
Ch. 33, Subch. E 151.03
                 
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Transportation Code
Texas Code Cites          Code Section
Transportation Code
522.003                   70.084
541.001(3)                70.001
541.002                   70.007
541.002(4)                70.001
541.156                   70.068
541.201                   70.001
541.201(3),(15),(16)      70.001
541.201(7)                70.084
541.201(9)                70.001
541.201(11)               70.001
541.201(13)               70.001
541.201(17)               70.001
541.201(20)               70.001
541.201(22)               70.001
541.201(23)               70.001
542.202                   70.004
541.301                   70.001
541.302(3)                70.001
541.302(5)                70.001
541.302(8)                70.001
541.302(9)                70.001
541.302(11)               70.001
541.302(16)               70.001
541.303                   70.001
541.304                   70.001
541.304(3)                70.001
541.401(6)                70.001
541.401(8)                70.001
541.401(9)                70.001
541.401(10)               70.001
541.501                   70.006
Ch. 542                   70.999
542.003                   70.009
Ch. 544                   70.033,
                          70.079
544.004                   70.031
544.005                   70.042
544.006                   70.041
544.007                   70.032
544.008                   70.037
544.010                   70.059
545.051                   70.055
545.053 through 545.055   70.056
545.056                   70.057,
                          70.058
545.057                   70.057,
                          70.058
545.101 through 545.107   70.067
545.153                   70.059
545.151 through 545.153   70.061
545.155                   70.065
545.351(c)(1) through (5) 70.075
545.352                   70.075
545.416                   70.013
Ch. 546                   70.008
547.501                   70.010,
                          70.011
552.002                   70.039
Ch. 683                   90.04,
                          90.05
Title 7                   70.058
                          
 
 
Texas Code Cites Code Section
Water Code
16.315           Ch. 153,
                 153.01
                 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      6-18-2002   T.S.O. III
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
–        --          92.99
                       113.01 -
–        --          113.07,
                       113.99
                       131.01 -
–        --          131.05,
                       131.99
–        --          150.01
                       153.01 -
                       153.12,
                       153.25 -
–        --          153.27,
                       153.40 -
                       153.42,
                       153.99
–        8-9-1951    70.110,
                       70.999
–        6-9-1952    Ch. 71, Sch. IV
–        6-9-1952    Ch. 72, Sch. I
–        11-13-1962  92.04
–        11-22-1977  Ch. 71, Sch. III
–        11-24-1986  92.03
–        11-19-1990  Ch. 71, Sch. II
–        12-23-1996  T.S.O. I
–        3-18-1997   T.S.O. I
–        4-4-1999    T.S.O. IV
–        1-1-2000    31.02
–        1-18-2000   T.S.O. I
72401      7-24-2001   T.S.O. II
52102      5-21-2002   T.S.O. I
                       70.095 -
51705      5-17-2005   70.098,
                       70.999
9-605      9-6-2005    T.S.O. V
11152005   11-15-2005  T.S.O. II
32106      3-21-2006   31.01
52306      5-23-2006   T.S.O. II
2202007    2-27-2007   92.02,
                       92.99
2272007    2-27-2007   92.01
81908      8-19-2008   Ch. 71, Sch. I
12809      12-8-2009   111.01 -
                       111.05
                       112.01 -
121409     12-14-2009  112.03,
                       112.99
                       132.01,
111610     11-16-2010  132.02,
                       132.99
                       30.01 -
4262011    4-26-2011   30.08,
                       30.99
71712      7-17-2012   T.S.O. IV
091713     9-17-2013   T.S.O. V
                       90.01 -
20130917B  9-17-2013   90.10,
                       90.99
                       151.01 -
020130917A 9-17-2013   151.11,
                       151.99
032814     3-28-2014   T.S.O. III
091614     9-16-2014   T.S.O. V
012015     1-20-2015   130.15,
                       130.99
013715     3-17-2015   50.02
042115     3-17-2015   150.02,
                       150.99
                       92.15 -
20150421   3-17-2015   92.26,
                       92.99
150421     4-21-2015   32.01
                       152.01 -
                       152.08,
072115     7-21-2015   152.20 -
                       152.27,
                       152.99;
                       Ch. 152, Appendix
102615     10-21-2015  33.01
                       91.01 -
101816     10-18-2016  91.05,
                       91.99
                       51.01 –
041718     4-17-2018   51.26,
                       51.99
031720     3-17-2020   152.40 -
                       152.44
                       93.01 -
03172021   3-16-2021   93.17,
                       93.99
                       114.01 -
20210317   3-16-2021   114.08,
                       114.99
                      
 
