CITY OF BIG SANDY, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ordinance 3-13-12, passed 3-20-2012
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Email: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Big Sandy, Texas,
shall be designated as the Code of Big Sandy, and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code,
Ch. 53
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Big Sandy,
Texas.
      CITY COUNCIL. Whenever the words COUNCIL, or THE COUNCIL or THE CITY
COUNCIL are used, they shall mean the City Council of the City of Big Sandy,
Texas.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act
to be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day
on which the notice is given or the act is done shall be counted in computing
the time, but the day on which the proceeding is to be had shall not be
counted.
      COUNTY. Upshur County, Texas.
      HIGHWAY. Includes any street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or
square, bridges, viaducts, tunnels, underpasses, overpasses and causeways in
the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving the authority to a
majority of officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or of a part of the building or land.
      PERSON.
      (1)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver.
      (2)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the
partners or members thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or
agents thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes every species of property, except real
property, as defined in this section.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used
for vehicular traffic.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line
of the roadway and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      STREET. Includes any highway, alley, street, avenue or public place or
square, bridges, viaducts, underpasses, overpasses, tunnels and causeways in
the city, dedicated or devoted to public use.
      SUBCHAPTER.
      (1)   A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
      (2)   Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(1981 Code, § 1.3)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including but not limited to the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All the ordinances mentioned in division (A) above are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length herein.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, §§ 552.001 et
seq.
§ 10.19 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Whenever in this code or any ordinances of the city, an act is prohibited or
made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or whenever in
such code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided
therefor, or the penalty is specified at an amount below the amount specified
in this section, the violation of any provision of this code or any ordinance
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $2,000 in all cases arising under
ordinances governing fire safety, zoning, and public health and sanitation,
including the dumping of trash, refuse, waste or litter, and not exceeding $500
in all other cases; provided, however, that no penalty shall be greater or less
than the penalty provided for the same or a similar offense under the laws of
the state. Each day any violation of this code or any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
34.   TAX AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Date of elections
   
30.03   Location of elections
   
30.04   Tenure of Office
   
30.05   Filing for Office
   
30.06   Compensation for City Council and Mayor
   
30.07   Regular Council meeting; day and time
   
30.08   Special meetings
   
30.09   Emergency meetings
   
30.10   Quorum of Council
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The municipal government of the city shall consist of a City Council,
composed of the Mayor and five Council members, who shall be elected at large
by the qualified voters of the city for two-year terms.
(1981 Code, § 2.1)
§ 30.02 DATE OF ELECTIONS.
   (A)   All elections for City Council members shall be held on the first
Saturday in May of each year for odd numbered years and the on second Saturday
in May of each year for even numbered years.
   (B)   The city elections shall be operated in compliance with state law.
(1981 Code, § 2.2)
§ 30.03 LOCATION OF ELECTIONS.
   The Mayor shall have the authority to select the place for the city election
to be held.
(1981 Code, § 2.3)
§ 30.04 TENURE OF OFFICE.
   There shall be two-year staggered terms of the Offices of Mayor and the five
Council members. The Mayor and two Council members shall be elected for two-
year terms on odd-numbered years. The remaining three Council members shall be
elected for two-year terms on even-numbered years.
(1981 Code, § 2.4)
§ 30.05 FILING FOR OFFICE.
   All candidates for the office of City Council or Mayor shall file their name
with the City Secretary at least 30 days prior to election to be held in May,
if he or she wishes his or her name printed on the election ballot.
(1981 Code, § 2.5)
§ 30.06 COMPENSATION FOR CITY COUNCIL AND MAYOR.
   All City Council members, including the Mayor, shall serve the city at a
compensation level, if any, to be decided by the City Council during budget
preparation. There shall be an allowance to cover travel expenses necessary for
the conducting of city business.
(1981 Code, § 2.6)
§ 30.07 REGULAR COUNCIL MEETING; DAY AND TIME.
   The City Council shall meet at least once a month on the second Tuesday of
each month at 6:00 p.m.
(1981 Code, § 2.7)
§ 30.08 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the City Council may be called at any time by the Mayor
as he or she shall deem necessary.
(1981 Code, § 2.8)
§ 30.09 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   Emergency meetings of the City Council may be called at any time by the
Mayor as he or she shall deem necessary.
(1981 Code, § 2.9)
§ 30.10 QUORUM OF COUNCIL.
   A quorum of the City Council will consist either of the Mayor and three
Council members, or four Council members.
(1981 Code, § 2.10)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Municipal Court
   
31.01   Creation of the Municipal Court
   
31.02   Jurisdiction of Court
   
31.03   Municipal Judge
Library Department
   
31.15   Creation of Library Department
   
31.16   Acceptance of gifts and donations
   
31.17   Creation of Board of Trustees
   
31.18   Composition of Board
   
31.19   Powers of Board
Zoning Commission
   
31.30   Creation of Zoning Commission
   
31.31   Definitions
   
31.32   Composition of Commission
   
31.33   Offices and meetings
   
31.34   City plan
   
31.35   Purpose of plan
   
31.36   Adoption of plan
   
31.37   Recommendations by Commission
   
31.38   Conformance with state law
Police Department
   
31.50   Authorization of Mayor
Cross-reference:
   City Council, see
Ch. 30
   Emergency management provisions, see
Ch. 32
   Officials and employee provisions, see
Ch. 33
   Taxes and fees, see
Ch. 34
MUNICIPAL COURT
§ 31.01 CREATION OF THE MUNICIPAL COURT.
   There is hereby created and established for the city a court to be known as
the “Municipal Court of Big Sandy, Texas”.
(1981 Code, § 2.20)
§ 31.02 JURISDICTION OF COURT.
   The Municipal Court shall have jurisdiction within the territorial limits of
the city of all criminal cases arising under the ordinances of the city; and
shall also have concurrent jurisdiction with the Justice of the Peace for the
precinct in which the city is situated for all criminal cases arising under the
laws of this state in which punishment is by fine only and with a maximum of
the fine not to exceed $200, and which violations occur within the territorial
limits of the city.
(1981 Code, § 2.21)
§ 31.03 MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   (A)   The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a judge to be known as
the Judge of the Municipal Court.
   (B)   The Municipal Judge is to be appointed to this position by the City
Council. Upon enactment of the ordinance and the appointment of a Municipal
Judge, the initial Municipal Judge shall serve in that capacity concurrently to
the unexpired term of the Mayor. At the expiration of the initial term, and
every two years thereafter, the City Council shall appoint a Municipal Judge to
serve for a term of two years.
   (C)   The Municipal Judge so appointed is not required to be a licensed
attorney; however, the Judge shall be a citizen of the United States and a
citizen of the state and resident in good standing of the county or any
neighboring county.
   (D)   The Municipal Judge shall receive a salary to be set by the City
Council, which salary may not be diminished during his or her term of office.
Furthermore, the Municipal Judge may be removed from office during the term for
which he or she was appointed for incompetency, inefficiency, official
misconduct, or for good cause. However, the Judge shall not be removed until he
or she is given due notice of the grounds for removal and is given an
opportunity to present a defense and oppose the grounds of removal in a hearing
before the Mayor and City Council.
   (E)   Any vacancy in the office of the Municipal Judge by death, resignation
or otherwise shall be filled by the City Council, which may appoint some
qualified person to act in place of the Municipal Judge; and the appointee
shall have all of the powers and discharge all the duties of the office and
shall receive the same compensation therefore as is payable to the regular
Municipal Judge while so acting.
(1981 Code, § 2.22)
LIBRARY DEPARTMENT
§ 31.15 CREATION OF LIBRARY DEPARTMENT.
   Pursuant to the Charter of the city, a Department is hereby created within
the framework of the governmental organization of the city, which shall be
known as the Library Department and it shall function according to the laws of
the state, the Charter of the city, and the provisions of this enactment.
(1981 Code, § 11.1) (Ord. passed 10-14-1975)
§ 31.16 ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS AND DONATIONS.
   The city hereby accepts all gifts and donations of books and equipment
heretofore made for the city public library, with grateful thanks to the donors
both of books and time, and it is ordained that the books and equipment,
together with additions as may be made from time to time, shall constitute and
form the books and equipment of the city public library.
(1981 Code, § 11.2) (Ord. passed 10-14-1975)
§ 31.17 CREATION OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   There is hereby created the Board of Trustees, Big Sandy Public Library, and
the Board shall administer and supervise the operation of the city public
library and any branches thereof as may be hereafter established by the
Council. The Board may formulate rules and regulations as it shall deem
necessary for the orderly use of the library facilities and in governing the
performance of duties of the library employees and personnel.
(1981 Code, § 11.3) (Ord. passed 10-14-1975)
§ 31.18 COMPOSITION OF BOARD.
   The Board of Trustees of the city public library shall consist of seven
members, to be appointed by the City Council for the term of two years;
provided, however, that of the first seven appointments made under this
subchapter, four shall be appointed for two years and three shall be appointed
for one year; and thereafter four shall be appointed during even numbered years
and three shall be appointed during odd numbered years for the two-year terms.
The initial terms under this enactment shall commence to run from the date of
enactment of this subchapter.
(1981 Code, § 11.4) (Ord. passed 10-14-1975)
§ 31.19 POWERS OF BOARD.
   The Board of Trustees shall have no power to obligate the city in any manner
whatsoever. Its finances shall be handled in the same manner as any division of
the city government.
(1981 Code, § 11.5) (Ord. passed 10-14-1975)
ZONING COMMISSION
§ 31.30 CREATION OF ZONING COMMISSION.
   In order to avail itself of the powers conferred by the Civil Statutes of
the state to appoint a commission to recommend the boundaries of zoning
districts and appropriate regulations to be enforced therein, the Council
hereby and herewith establishes, constitutes and creates a commission to be
named, known and designated as the Zoning Commission.
(1981 Code, § 11.10) (Ord. passed 6-12-1972)
§ 31.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Zoning Commission hereby constituted and created.
   STREETS. Any public way.
(1981 Code, § 11.11) (Ord. passed 6-12-1972)
§ 31.32 COMPOSITION OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Zoning Commission of the city, herein constituted and created
shall consist of seven persons. Two of these seven persons shall be selected by
the Council. The Mayor and Council members shall be designated as ex-officio
members and shall serve for the terms of their elective offices.
   (B)   The five citizen members shall be selected by the Mayor and approved
by the Council. The term of each citizen member shall be for four years, except
the terms of citizen members first appointed shall be so fixed that one citizen
member shall serve for one year, one citizen member shall serve for two years,
one citizen member shall serve for three years, and two citizen members shall
serve for four years.
   (C)   Any vacancy in a membership shall be filled for the unexpired term by
appointment as aforesaid. The Council may remove any citizen member for cause
stated in writing and after public hearing.
(1981 Code, § 11.12) (Ord. passed 6-12-1972)
§ 31.33 OFFICES AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall elect its Chairperson and Secretary from among
the citizen members. The terms of Chairperson and Secretary shall be for one
year with eligibility for reelection.
   (B)   The Commission shall meet monthly on a date as it shall provide by
rule and shall be empowered to hold special meetings as it shall provide by
rule. The Commission shall adopt rules as are necessary to the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its proceedings. These records shall be
public records.
   (C)   The Commission shall appoint employees and staff necessary for its
work and may contract with city planners and other professional persons for the
services that it requires. The expenditures of the Commission exclusive of
grants and gifts, shall be within the amounts appropriated for the purpose by
the Council.
(1981 Code, § 11.13) (Ord. passed 6-12-1972)
§ 31.34 CITY PLAN.
   (A)   The Commission may make and adopt a city plan for the physical
development of the municipality.
   (B)   The city plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and
descriptive and explanatory matter, may show the Commission’s recommendations
for the physical development and uses of land and may include, among other
things, the general location, character and extent of streets and other public
ways, grounds, places and spaces; the general location and extent of public
utilities and terminals, whether publicly or privately owned; the acceptance,
widening, removal, extension, relocation, narrowing, vacation, abandonment or
change of use of any of the foregoing; and the general character, extent and
layout of the re-planning of blighted districts and slum areas.
(1981 Code, § 11.14) (Ord. passed 6-12-1972)
§ 31.35 PURPOSE OF PLAN.
   (A)   In the preparation of the city plan, the Commission shall make careful
and comprehensive surveys and studies of the existing conditions and probable
future growth of the municipality.
   (B)   The plan shall be made with the general purpose of guiding and
accomplishing a coordinated development of the municipality which will, in
accordance with existing and future needs, best promote the general welfare, as
well as efficiency and economy in the process of development.
(1981 Code, § 11.15) (Ord. passed 6-12-1972)
§ 31.36 ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   (A)   The Commission may adopt the plan as a whole by a single resolution,
or, as the work of making the whole city plan progresses, may from time to time
adopt a part or parts thereof, any part to correspond generally with one or
more of the functional subdivisions of the subject matter of the plan. Before
adoption, amendment or extension of the plan or portion thereof the Commission
shall hold at least one public hearing thereon.
   (B)   Fifteen days’ notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be
published in at least one newspaper having general circulation within the
municipality. The hearing may be adjourned from time to time. The adoption of
the plan shall require a majority vote of the full membership of the
Commission. The resolution shall refer expressly to the maps, descriptive
matter and other matters intended by the Commission to form the whole or part
of the plan and the action taken shall be recorded on the adopted plan or part
thereof by the identifying signature of the Secretary of the Commission and be
filed in the office of the Commission and be identified properly by file
number. A copy of the adopted plan or part thereof shall be certified to the
Council and the City Secretary and a copy shall be recorded in the office of
the County Recorder of Deeds.
(1981 Code, § 11.16) (Ord. passed 6-12-1972)
§ 31.37 RECOMMENDATIONS BY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission may make reports and recommendations relating to the
plan and development of the municipalities, civic, educational, professional
and other organizations and citizens.
   (B)   It may recommend to the executive or legislative officials of the
municipality programs for public improvements and the financing thereof. All
public officials shall, upon request, furnish to the Commission, within a
reasonable time, all available information it requires for its work.
   (C)   The Commission, its members and employees, in the performance of its
functions, may enter upon any land to make examinations and surveys. In
general, the Commission shall have the power necessary to enable it to perform
its functions and promote municipal planning.
(1981 Code, § 11.17) (Ord. passed 6-12-1972)
§ 31.38 CONFORMANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   The Commission shall have and perform all of the functions of the
zoning commission provided for in Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 211.007.
   (B)   The Commission may prepare a zoning plan for the regulation of the
height, area, bulk, location and use of private, non-profit and public
structures and premises, and of population density.
   (C)   The adoption, enforcement and administration of the zoning plan shall
conform to the provisions of Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 211.007.
(1981 Code, § 11.18) (Ord. passed 6-12-1972)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.50 AUTHORIZATION OF MAYOR.
   The City Mayor is hereby authorized to direct the Chief of Police of the
City Police Department to detail regularly employed law enforcement officers to
assist any county or municipality, when in the opinion of the Mayor or other
officer authorized to declare a state of civil emergency in the county or
municipality, there exist in the county or municipality, a need for services of
additional law enforcement officers to protect the health, life and property of
the county or municipality, its inhabitants and visitors thereof, by reason of
riot, unlawful assembly characterized by the use of force and violence, or
threat thereof within the meaning of Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, Art. 362.001, which
is now in full force and effect, and a request for additional law enforcement
officers is made to the Mayor of the city by the Mayor or other officer
authorized to declare a state of civil emergency in the county or municipality.
(Res. passed 11-10-1992)
Cross-reference:
   For further emergency management provisions, see
Ch. 32
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Organization
   
32.02   Emergency Management Director; powers and duties
   
32.03   Emergency Management Plan
   
32.04   Interjurisdictional program
   
32.05   Override
   
32.06   Liability
   
32.07   Commitment of funds
   
32.08   Offenses
   
32.09   Limitations
 
   
32.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Authorization of Mayor during civil emergencies, see §
31.50
§ 32.01 ORGANIZATION.
   There exists the Office of Emergency Management Director of the city, which
shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
   (A)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Director.
   (B)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the city and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this chapter. He or she may delegate authority
for execution of these duties to the Coordinator, but ultimate responsibility
for the execution shall remain with the Director.
   (C)   The operational emergency management organization of the city shall
consist of the officers and employees of the city so designated by the Director
in the emergency management plan, as well as organized volunteer groups. The
functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed among those
officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the emergency management
plan.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
§ 32.02 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall
include the following:
   (A)   Conduct an ongoing survey of actual or potential hazards which
threaten life and property within the city and an ongoing program of
identifying and requiring or recommending the implementation of measures which
would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce the impact of the hazards if a
disaster did occur;
   (B)   Supervision of the development and approval of an emergency management
plan for the city, and shall recommend for adoption by the City Council all
mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of the plan;
   (C)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster. The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days, except by or
with the consent of the City Council. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the City Secretary;
   (D)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations or directives which
are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this chapter. These
proclamations, regulations or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the City Secretary;
   (E)   Direction and control of the operations of the city emergency
management organization as well as the training of emergency management
personnel;
   (F)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the emergency management organization of the city;
   (G)   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district, state,
regional or federal, emergency management organizations;
   (H)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any
department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
emergency management plan;
   (I)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with the representatives of the state and other local political
subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed desirable,
of an agreement with the county in which the city is located and with other
municipalities within the county, for the county-wide coordination of emergency
management efforts;
   (J)   Supervision of, and final authorization for the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the city;
   (K)   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the City Attorney, for
use of private property for public shelter and other purposes;
   (L)   Survey of the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies
and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for herein; and
   (M)   Other requirements as specified in Texas Disaster Act, 1975 (Tex.
Gov’t Code, §§ 418.001 et seq.)
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
§ 32.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall be developed and maintained
in a current state. The plan shall set forth the form of the organization,
establish and designate divisions and functions, assign responsibilities,
tasks, duties and powers, and designate officers and employees to carry out the
provisions of this chapter. As provided by state law, the plan shall follow the
standards and criteria established by the State Division of Emergency
Management. Insofar as possible, the form of organization, titles and
terminology shall conform to the recommendations of the State Division of
Emergency Management. When approved, it shall be the duty of all departments
and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the plan and to maintain
their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at all times. The
emergency management plan shall be considered supplementary to this chapter and
have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
§ 32.04 INTERJURISDICTIONAL PROGRAM.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge and the Mayors
of the other cities in the county in the formation of an Emergency Management
Council for the county, and shall have the authority to cooperate in the
preparation of a joint emergency management plan and in the appointment of a
joint Emergency Management Coordinator, as well as all powers necessary to
participate in a county-wide program of emergency management insofar as the
program may affect the city.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
§ 32.05 OVERRIDE.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede and override
all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter
may be inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
§ 32.06 LIABILITY.
   (A)   This chapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental functions
for the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither the city,
the agents and representatives of the city, nor any individual, receiver, firm,
partnership, corporation, association or trustee, nor any of the agents
thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to comply
with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons as the result
of the activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants to the city a license of privilege,
or otherwise permits the city to inspect, designate and use the whole or any
part or parts of the real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering
persons during an actual, impending or practice enemy attack or natural or
human-made disaster shall, together with his or her successors in interest, if
any, not be civilly liable for the death of, or injury to, any person on or
about the real estate or premises under the license, privilege or other
permission or for loss of, or damage to, the property of the person.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
§ 32.07 COMMITMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city
in carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this chapter
without prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have any right
to bind the city by contract, agreement or otherwise without prior and specific
approval of the City Council unless during a declared disaster.
   (B)   During a declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or commit public
funds of the city when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of
health, life or property.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.08 OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder or
delay any member of the emergency management organization in the enforcement of
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter, or to do any act
forbidden by any rule or regulation issued pursuant to the authority contained
in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member of the
emergency management organization of the city, unless authority to do so has
been granted to the person by the proper officials.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.09 LIMITATIONS.
   This chapter shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state or
federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule or regulation.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any unauthorized person who shall operate a siren or other device so
as to simulate a warning signal, or the termination of a warning, shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter, and shall be subject to the
penalties imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   Convictions for violations of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable by fine not to exceed $1000.
(Ord. passed 12-13-1988)
CHAPTER 33: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Appointment of city officials
Records Management Officer
   
33.15   Definition of records of the city
   
33.16   Records declared public property
   
33.17   Policy
   
33.18   Records Management Officer
   
33.19   Records control schedules
City Secretary
   
33.30   Creation of Office of City Secretary
   
33.31   Powers and duties
   
33.32   Appointment and tenure
   
33.33   Organizational relationships
Police Chief and Police Officers
   
33.45   Creating Office of Police Chief
   
33.46   Qualifications for appointment
   
33.47   Removal from Office
   
33.48   Selection of police officers and dispatchers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 APPOINTMENT OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   The other officials of the city, such as the City Secretary, City Attorney,
County Fire Marshal, and Emergency Management Coordinator, shall be appointed
by the Mayor and City Council.
(1981 Code, § 12.20)
RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER
§ 33.15 DEFINITION OF RECORDS OF THE CITY.
   All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs, sound or video
recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media or other information
recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and regardless
of whether public access to it is open or restricted under the laws of the
state, created or received by the city or any of its officers or employees
pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business are hereby declared to
be the records of the city and shall be created, maintained and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter or procedures authorized by
it and in no other manner.
(Ord. passed 2-10-1998)
§ 33.16 RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   All records as defined in §
33.15 are hereby declared to be the property of the city.
   (B)   No official or employee of the city has, by virtue of his or her
position, any personal or property right to the records, even though he or she
may have developed or compiled them.
   (C)   The unauthorized destruction, removal from files or use of the records
is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 2-10-1998)
§ 33.17 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use and disposition of all records of this office
through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for the management of
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirements of the Local Government Records Act being Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, §§
201.001 et seq. and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. passed 2-10-1998)
§ 33.18 RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Secretary will serve as Records Management Officer for the city, as
provided by law and will ensure that the maintenance, destruction, electronic
storage or other disposition of the records of this office are carried out in
accordance with the requirements of the Local Government Records Act being Tex.
Loc. Gov’t Code, §§ 201.001 et seq.
(Ord. passed 2-10-1998)
§ 33.19 RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES.
   (A)   Appropriate records control schedules issued by the State Library and
Archives Commission shall be adopted by the Records Management Officer for use
in the city, as provided by law.
   (B)   Any destruction of records of the city will be in accordance with
these schedules and the Local Government Records Act being Tex. Loc. Gov’t
Code, §§ 201.001 et seq.
   (C)   A copy of these schedules shall be kept and made available to the
public in the Office of the City Secretary.
(Ord. passed 2-10-1998)
CITY SECRETARY
§ 33.30 CREATION OF OFFICE OF CITY SECRETARY.
   The Office of City Secretary is hereby established.
(1981 Code, § 12.1)
§ 33.31 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Secretary shall have all the powers and perform all duties
prescribed to it by law.
   (B)   These duties shall include the following:
      (1)   The City Secretary shall attend every meeting of the City Council
for the purpose of keeping accurate minutes of the proceedings of the City
Council;
      (2)   The City Secretary shall engross and enroll all motions and
resolutions of the City Council and ordinances of the city and include these in
the city code;
      (3)   The City Secretary shall attest all commissions and licenses
issued;
      (4)   The City Secretary shall preserve and keep in order all books,
papers, documents and records of the City Council;
      (5)   The City Secretary shall have custody of all laws and ordinances of
the city;
      (6)   The City Secretary shall have custody of the city seal and shall
affix this seal to obligations of the city only by order of the City Council;
      (7)   The City Secretary, in compliance with the open meeting law being
Tex. Gov’t Code, §§ 551.001 et seq., shall post in a place readily accessible
to the public and 72 hours preceding the meetings, notices of the date, time
and place of each meeting of the City Council; and
      (8)   The City Secretary shall perform all other necessary duties that
pertain to that Office and all other duties as required by the Mayor and the
City Council.
(1981 Code, § 12.2)
§ 33.32 APPOINTMENT AND TENURE.
   The City Secretary shall be employed and removed by the Mayor and City
Council.
(1981 Code, § 12.3)
§ 33.33 ORGANIZATIONAL RELATIONSHIPS.
   The City Secretary reports to the Mayor and City Council. He or she must
work effectively with the Mayor and City Council, with all city employees and
with the general public.
(1981 Code, § 12.4)
POLICE CHIEF AND POLICE OFFICERS
§ 33.45 CREATING OFFICE OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Office of Chief of Police in and for the city is hereby created.
(1981 Code, § 12.10)
§ 33.46 QUALIFICATIONS FOR APPOINTMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor and City Council to appoint some person as
Chief of Police. The Chief of Police shall serve from date of appointment.
(1981 Code, § 12.11)
§ 33.47 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The Chief of Police may be removed from that Office by the City Council
because of incompetency, or violations of the laws of the city, state or the
United States.
(1981 Code, § 12.12)
§ 33.48 SELECTION OF POLICE OFFICERS AND DISPATCHERS.
   The Police Chief shall interview all applicants for the jobs of police
officers and dispatchers and shall make his or her recommendation and present
this recommendation to the City Council for its approval.
(1981 Code, § 12.13)
CHAPTER 34: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Adoption of sales tax
   
34.02   Administrative fee for driving safety course
Property Tax
   
34.15   Levying the property tax
   
34.16   Rate set by City Council
   
34.17   Expenses for delinquent taxes
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 ADOPTION OF SALES TAX.
   (A)   The majority of the qualified voters of the city, having voted for the
adoption of the 1% local sales and use tax, the tax is hereby imposed in the
city.
   (B)   The City Secretary is hereby instructed to forward to the Comptroller
of Public Accounts, State Capitol, Austin, Texas, by registered or certified
mail a certified copy of this section, and a map of the city, clearly showing
the boundaries thereof.
(1981 Code, § 13.20)
§ 34.02 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE FOR DRIVING SAFETY COURSE.
   An administrative fee may be imposed at the sole discretion of the Municipal
Court Judge of an amount not to exceed $10, to be levied against any person
requesting a driving safety course, authorized under Tex. Tran. Code, §§
543.111 through 543.116. This fee is to be paid at the time the driving safety
course is granted and not thereafter. This fee is authorized under Tex. Tran.
Code, § 543.115 and is not refundable. This fee applies to cases that occur on
or after September 1, 1987.
(Ord. passed 7-12-1988)
PROPERTY TAX
§ 34.15 LEVYING THE PROPERTY TAX.
   There shall be and there is levied hereby an ad valorem tax on all property,
except that which may be by the Constitution and laws exempt from taxation,
within the corporate limits of the city, for the erection, construction and
purchase of public buildings, streets, sewers and other permanent improvements,
and for the operation of the police and health regulations and the
administration of the city government, and to provide an interest and sinking
fund for any indebtedness of the city.
(1981 Code, § 13.1)
§ 34.16 RATE SET BY CITY COUNCIL.
   The tax rate for the city shall be set by the City Council on an annual
basis.
(1981 Code, § 13.2)
§ 34.17 EXPENSES FOR DELINQUENT TAXES.
   It shall be the declared policy of this tax unit that the expenses
maintaining records on delinquent taxes owed to the unit and of collecting
those taxes, now an unfair burden on the general revenue and the taxpayers who
pay on time, should be borne instead by the delinquent properties and their
owners who are responsible for causing those expenses; and to effectuate this
policy, the unit hereby orders that the costs be charged against the delinquent
properties and their owners as authorized collection expenses as herein
provided, and the same are hereby made a part of the tax liens against the
delinquent property to which each cost is attributable.
(1981 Code, § 13.3)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
      
51.   SANITARY EASEMENTS FOR WATER WELLS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
50.01   Placing of garbage, brush, leaves or other debris in streets, alleys or
ditches
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 PLACING OF GARBAGE, BRUSH, LEAVES OR OTHER DEBRIS IN STREETS, ALLEYS OR
DITCHES.
   The placing of kitchen garbage, trash or rubbish or any article, thing or
material,(leaves or brush) in any street, alley or ditch within the city limits
is prohibited.
(Ord. 10-10-89, passed - -) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
50.01 shall be fined not less than $200 nor more than $2,000.
(Ord. 10-10-89, passed - -)
CHAPTER 51: SANITARY EASEMENTS FOR WATER WELLS
Section
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Prohibited activities
   
51.04   Right of entry
   
51.05   Removal
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter sets rules for the owners, users and the like of the land
within 150 feet of any well used by the city, concerning the construction of
any facility or use of the land that might cause a pollution hazard.
   (B)   This chapter would enable the city to comply with all applicable state
and local regulations.
(Ord. 3-13-12, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Big Sandy.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Big Sandy, Texas.
   ORDINANCE. This chapter concerning sanitary control easement for water
wells.
   PERSON. Anyone using land.
   WELLS. Wells being operated by the city.
(Ord. 3-13-12, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 51.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Construction of any facility or operation of any business which might
cause a hazardous or unsanitary condition (such as any gas, oil, or petroleum
products, chemical storage, anything to do with wastewater (sewer), septic
tanks, any injection well, abandoned wells, and numerous other conditions)
within the 150 foot-radius of wells.
   (B)   Use of tile or concrete sanitary sewer, sewer appurtenances, storm
sewers, are prohibited across any area of land within a 50-foot radius of
wells.
   (C)   Construction of homes or buildings are permitted within the 150-foot
radius of the wells provided there will not be a sanitary condition.
   (D)   Farming, gardening and ranching are not prohibited; however, feeding
pens or livestock shall not be allowed within 150 feet of the wells.
(Ord. 3-13-12, passed 3-20-2012) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   City employees or authorized representatives of the city shall be permitted
entry up on any land or facility located within a 150-foot radius of the wells
to conduct any inspection or observation necessary to enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 3-13-12, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 51.05 REMOVAL.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be required
to remove the construction or potential source of contamination within ten days
after they have been notified of the violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 3-13-12, passed 3-20-2012)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed $200. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 3-13-12, passed 3-20-2012)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Parking that obstructs traffic
   
70.02   Direction for parking
   
70.03   Parking in fire lanes
   
70.04   Parking near businesses
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 PARKING THAT OBSTRUCTS TRAFFIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator to stop, stand or park any vehicle
upon a street, other than an alley, in a manner or under conditions so as to
leave available less than ten feet on the width of the roadway free from
movement of vehicular traffic, except of passengers or when necessary in
obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs or signals, or a police
officer.
(1981 Code, § 14.20) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 DIRECTION FOR PARKING.
   Except when necessary, in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic signs
or signals, the operator of a vehicle shall not stop, stand or park a vehicle
in a roadway, other than parallel with the edge of the roadway, headed in the
direction of the traffic, and with the curbside wheels of the vehicle within
six inches of the edge of the curb, except upon those streets which have been
marked or signed for angle parking, in which case vehicles shall be parked at
the angle to the curb indicated by the sign and within the sign lines and/or
roadway.
(1981 Code, § 14.21) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 PARKING IN FIRE LANES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor or other vehicle on
any street designated a fire lane.
(1981 Code, § 14.22) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 PARKING NEAR BUSINESSES.
   The operator of a vehicle shall observe all “parking” and “no parking” signs
in front of and on the sides of businesses in the city.
(1981 Code, § 14.23) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any terms of this article shall be guilty of
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of a maximum of $200 for each and
every violation.
(1981 Code, § 14.24)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   Traffic signals
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limits on U.S. Highway 80. The following prescribed section on
U.S. Highway 80 is regulated as to the speed of motor vehicles traveling
thereon in the direction indicated, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of
any motor vehicle to drive the vehicle within that section in the direction
stated at a speed in excess of the following:
      (1)   For traffic traveling in an easterly direction on U.S. Highway 80:
 
50 mph From the west city limits to a point 0.779 miles east, the point being
       223 feet east of Meason Street
       From a point 0.779 miles east of the west city limits east for a
       distance of 0.458 miles to a point 1.237 miles east of the west city
       limits, the point being 395 feet east of Pearl Street; except for that
40 mph portion from a point 0.818 miles east of the west city limits east for a
       distance of 0.128 miles to a point 0.945 miles east of the west city
       limits the speed shall be 30 mph when school speed zone flashing beacons
       are in operation
       From a point 1.237 miles east of the west city limits east for a
50 mph distance of 0.239 miles to a point 1.476 miles east of the west city
       limits, the point being the east city limits
 
      (2)   For traffic traveling in a westerly direction on U.S. Highway 80:
 
50 mph From the east city limits to a point 0.239 miles west, the point being
       395 feet east of Pearl Street
       From a point 0.239 miles west of the east city limits, west for a
       distance of 0.458 miles to a point 0.697 miles west of the east city
       limits, the point being 223 feet east of Meason Street; except for that
40 mph portion from a point 0.530 miles west of the east city limits, west for
       a distance of 0.128 miles to a point 0.658 miles west of the east city
       limits, the speed shall be 30 mph when school speed zone flashing
       beacons are in operation
       From a point 0.697 miles west of the east city limits, west for a
50 mph distance of 0.779 miles to a point 1.476 miles west of the east city
       limits, the point being the west city limits
 
      (3)   The hereinabove speeds for vehicular traffic traveling upon the
hereinabove designated section of U.S. Highway 80 in the direction herein
specified are hereby found to be reasonable and safe prima facie speed limits
therefor.
      (4)   The State Department of Highways and Public Transportation is
authorized to erect signs indicating the speed limits herein designated.
(1981 Code, § 14.1)
   (B)   Speed limits on State Highway 155. The following prescribed section of
State Highway 155 is regulated as to the speed of motor vehicles traveling
thereon in the direction indicated, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of
any motor vehicle within the section in the direction stated at a speed in
excess of the following:
      (1)   For traffic traveling in a southerly direction on State Highway
155:
 
55 mph From the north city limits to a point 0.564 miles south, the point being
       237 feet south of FM 2911
       From a point 0.564 miles south of the north city limits, south for a
50 mph distance of 0.269 miles to a point 0.833 miles south of the north city
       limits, the point being 189 feet south of Kay Street
       From a point 0.833 miles south of the north city limits, south for a
40 mph distance of 0.235 miles to a point 1.068 miles south of the north city
       limits, the point being the east intersection of U.S. Highway 80
55 mph From the west intersection of U.S. Highway 80 to a point 0.111 miles
       south, the point being the south city limits
 
      (2)   For traffic traveling in a northerly direction on State Highway
155.
 
55 mph From the south city limits to a point 0.111 miles north, the point being
       the west intersection of U.S. Highway 80
40 mph From the east intersection of U.S. Highway 80 to a point 0.235 miles
       north, the point being 189 feet south of Kay Street
       From a point 0.235 miles north of the east intersection of U.S. Highway
50 mph 80, north for a distance of 0.269 miles to a point 0.504 miles north of
       the east intersection of U.S. Highway 80, the point being 237 feet south
       of FM 2911
       From a point 0.504 miles north of the east intersection of U.S. Highway
55 mph 80, north for a distance of 0.564 miles to a point 1.068 miles north of
       the east intersection of U.S. Highway 80, the point being the north city
       limits
 
      (3)   The hereinabove speeds for vehicular traffic traveling upon the
hereinabove designated section of State Highway 155 in the direction herein
specified are hereby found to be reasonable and safe prima facie speed limits
therefor.
      (4)   The State Department of Highways and Public Transportation is
authorized to erect signs indicating the speed limits herein designated.
(1981 Code, § 14.2)
   (C)   Speed limits on Farm to Market Road 2911.
      (1)   The following prescribed sections of Farm to Market Road 2911 are
regulated as to the speed of motor vehicles traveling thereon in the direction
indicated, and it shall be unlawful for the driver of any motor vehicle to
drive the vehicle within that section in the direction stated in a speed in
excess of the following:
 
       For traffic traveling in an easterly direction upon that portion of Farm
       to Market Road 2911 from the west corporate boundary line of the city,
50 mph to a point, the point of termination being 0.244 miles east of the west
       corporate boundary line of the city, and the intersection of Farm to
       Market Road 2911 with State Highway 155 in the city
       For traffic traveling in a westerly direction upon that portion of Farm
       to Market Road 2911 from its intersection with State Highway 155 in the
50 mph city, to a point, the point of termination being 0.255 miles west of the
       intersection of Farm to Market Road 2911 with State Highway 155 in the
       city, and the west corporate boundary line of the city
 
      (2)   The hereinabove speeds for vehicular traffic traveling upon
designated portions of Farm to Market Road 2911 in the direction herein
specified are hereby found to be reasonable and safe prima facie speed limits
therefor.
      (3)   The State Highway Department is authorized to erect signs
indicating the speed limits herein designated.
(1981 Code, § 14.3)
   (D)   Speed limits on other city streets. The maximum speed of all motor
vehicles traveling upon the streets within the corporate limits of the city,
other than those streets listed in divisions (A), (B) and (C) above, shall be
30 mph.
(1981 Code, § 14.4)
   (E)   Penalties. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of
divisions (A) through (D) above shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction of the violation, shall be fined in any sum not more than $200.
(1981 Code, § 14.5)
   (F)   Speed limit on Gilmer Street. The maximum speed of all motor vehicles
traveling upon Gilmer Street, from U.S. 80, south on South Pearl 375 feet (0.07
mile), East Gilmer to South Tyler 615 feet, West Gilmer to South Meason 1,460
feet, and West Gilmer to dead-end 450 feet (total of 0.48 mile), shall be 15
mph.
(1981 Code, § 14.6)
   (G)   Speed limit on Beck, Kay and Robinson Streets. The maximum speed of
all motor vehicles traveling upon Beck, Kay and Robinson Streets, shall be 15
mph, beginning at intersection of East College and North Robinson, and going
north for 1,671 feet; beginning at intersection of North Tyler and East Kay,
and going east for 663 feet to intersection of North Pearl; beginning at
intersection of North Tyler and East Beck and going east for 669 feet to
intersection of North Pearl.
(1981 Code, § 14.7)
   (H)   Speed limit on North Lexington Drive and Peachtree Lane. The maximum
speed of all motor vehicles traveling upon Lexington shall be 15 mph, beginning
at intersection of West Highway 80 (West Broadway), and going north for 1,937
feet; beginning at intersection of Lexington and Peachtree, and going east and
north on Peachtree Lane for 2,156 feet.
(1981 Code, § 14.8)
   (I)   Speed limits on FM 2911.
      (1)   The following prescribed section of FM 2911 as indicated on the
attached plan marked “Exhibit A” is regulated as to the speed of motor vehicles
traveling thereon in the direction indicated, and it shall be unlawful for the
driver of any motor vehicle to drive the vehicle within that section in the
direction stated at a speed in excess of the following.
         (a)   For traffic traveling in an easterly direction on FM 2911:
 
       From the northwest city limits (MP 2.694 cont. 2927-2), east for a
50 mph distance of 0.244 miles, to a point 0.244 miles east of the northwest
       city limits, the point being SH 155 (MP 2.938 cont. 2927-2), also the
       point of termination
 
         (b)   For traffic traveling in a westerly direction on FM 2911:
 
       From SH 155 (MP 2.938 cont. 2927-2), west for a distance of 0.244 miles,
50 mph to a point 0.244 miles west of SH 155, the point being the northwest
       city limits (MP 2.694 cont. 2927-2), also the point of termination
 
      (2)   The hereinabove speeds for vehicular traffic traveling upon the
hereinabove designated section of FM 2911 in the direction herein specified are
hereby found to be reasonable and safe prima facie speed limits therefor. The
fact that this regulation of the speed of motor vehicles is needed, creates an
emergency which is for the immediate preservation of public safety and general
welfare, requires that this division (I) take effect immediately from and after
its passage and it is accordingly so ordained.
      (3)   The State Department of Transportation is authorized to erect signs
indicating the speed limits herein designated.
      (4)   Any person violating any provisions of this division (I) shall,
upon conviction, be deemed guilty of misdemeanor, and shall be fined in any sum
not to exceed $200.
(Ord. passed 5-8-1967; Ord. passed 4-12-1977; Ord. passed 12-22-1978; Ord.
passed 12-12-1995; Ord. passed 7-11-2000; Ord. passed 1-9-2001)
SCHEDULE II. TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   Provision of signals. Since the public convenience, safety and
necessity require it, a highway traffic signal be constructed and provided at
the intersection of U.S. Highway 80 (Church Street) and State Highway 155
(Tyler Street) in the city.
(1981 Code, § 14.10)
   (B)   Authorization to state. The state is hereby authorized to construct
the highway traffic signal project at the location and in the manner shown on
the plans.
(1981 Code, § 14.11)
   (C)   State’s nonliability for damages. Nothing in this schedule shall be
construed as to require the state to assume or pay any direct, incidental or
consequential damages to adjoining, abutting or other property or business or
to any tenants occupying adjoining, abutting or other property caused by,
incidental to or in any way connected with the passage and enforcement of this
schedule and/or by the installation, the construction, the existence, the use,
operation and/or the maintenance of the highway traffic signal project
authorized herein, or to defend any suit or suits which may be brought against
the state by any party or parties for the recovery of the damages.
(1981 Code, § 14.12)
   (D)   Damages paid by city. For and in consideration of the mutual covenants
herein contained, the city does hereby agree that all damages and claims for
damages, including damages to adjoining, abutting or other property, if any
there be, arising out of, incident to or in any way connected with the
installation, the construction, the use, operation and/or the existence of the
highway traffic signal project and/or the maintenance thereof, shall be
adjusted and paid solely by the city, and the city shall and does hereby agree
to hold harmless the state against any and all claims, demands and causes of
action for recovery of any and all the damages arising out of the installation,
the construction, the use, operation and/or the existence of the highway
traffic signal project and/or the maintenance thereof, and agrees to assume the
defense of any and all suits brought for the recovery of all the alleged
damages, and shall intervene and make itself a party therein in its own name,
if it is not already made a party thereto, for the purpose, and shall if
requested in writing by the state so to do, wholly relieve the state from
defending the same, and hereby agrees to hold the state harmless as to court
costs, attorney’s fees and all expenses in connection with the suits, and
hereby assumes and agrees to pay all judgements recovered against the state by
reason of the construction, the installation, the use, operation and/or the
existence of the highway traffic signal project and/or the maintenance thereof.
(1981 Code, § 14.13)
   (E)   Changes to signals. No changes are to be made in the type of signal or
design or operation without written authority by the State Highway Engineer.
(1981 Code, § 14.14)
   (F)   Authorization to Mayor. The Mayor be and is hereby authorized to
execute for and on behalf of the city an agreement and contract with the state
in accordance with and for the purpose of carrying out the terms and provisions
of this schedule. The City Secretary is hereby directed to attest the agreement
and contract and to affix the proper seal of the city thereto.
(1981 Code, § 14.15)
   (G)   Construction of signal. The state be and is hereby authorized, as
agent of the city, to construct the highway traffic signal project at the
location and in the manner as shown in the approved plans.
(1981 Code, § 14.16)
(Ord. passed 6-29-1953)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   FIREWORKS AND THE LIKE
      
93.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
Control of Animals
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Enforcement
   
90.03   Running at large
   
90.04   Animal vaccination
   
90.05   Authority to confiscate or destroy certain animals
   
90.06   Reclaiming of confiscated animals
   
90.07   Animal nuisance
   
90.08   Prohibited animals
   
90.09   Vicious animals
   
90.10   Sanitary conditions
   
90.11   Pet care
   
90.12   Chief of Police as Local Health Authority
Poultry (Fowl) Running at Large
   
90.25   Declaring poultry running at large; odors and noise
   
90.26   Enforcement
   
90.27   Confiscating of poultry
Hitching of Animals
   
90.40   Hitching of animals in certain locations
   
90.41   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances, generally, see
Ch. 93
   Streets, sidewalks, driveways and the like, see
Ch. 94
CONTROL OF ANIMALS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Limited to dogs and cats.
   ANIMAL CONTROL. The Animal Control Officer of the City of Big Sandy.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any person designated by the Big Sandy City Council
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   CAT. A domestic feline of either sex, including one neutered or sterilized.
   DOG. A domestic canine of either sex, including one neutered or sterilized.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation having title to any animal; or a
person who has, harbors or keeps, or who causes or permits to be harbored or
kept, an animal in his or her care, or who permits an animal to remain on or
about his or her premises.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Not completely confined by a building, wall or fence of
sufficient strength or construction to restrain the animal except when the
animal is either on a leash or held in the hands of the owner or keeper, or
under supervision of the owner within the limits of the owner’s private
property.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any individual animal of any species that has on a previous
occasion or occasions without provocation attacked or bitten any person or
other animal, or chases a person walking or riding a bicycle so as to cause
harm to the person, or any individual animal which the Supervisor of Animal
Control has reason to believe has a dangerous disposition likely to be harmful
to humans or other animals.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any poisonous or dangerous reptile, or any other animal which
can normally be found in the wild state not normally capable of being
domesticated, including but not limited to skunks, foxes, leopards, panthers,
tigers, lions and lynx, unless certified for medical, biological,
herpetological or other scientific research or study.
(1981 Code, § 4.1)
§ 90.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the Animal
Control Officer.
   (B)   Any Animal Control Officer shall have the authority to issue citations
for any violation of this chapter. If the person being cited is not present,
the Animal Control Officer may send the citation to the alleged offender by
registered or certified mail.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with any Animal
Control Officer in the performance of his or her duties.
(1981 Code, § 4.2) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any animal possessed, kept or harbored to run
at large, as is defined in §
90.01.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer is authorized to confiscate the animals
running at large.
(1981 Code, § 4.3) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMAL VACCINATION.
   All dogs and cats over four months of age must be vaccinated annually for
rabies with an anti-rabies vaccine. A metal certificate of vaccination with the
year of vaccination and a certificate number must be securely attached to a
collar or harness that must be worn by the dog or cat at all times. Citations
may be issued to offenders.
(1981 Code, § 4.4) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 AUTHORITY TO CONFISCATE OR DESTROY CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Animal Control Officer or other designee are hereby authorized to:
      (1)   Confiscate any animal (other than livestock) found running at large
or astray within the city limits;
      (2)   Confiscate any animal being kept in violation of this chapter;
      (3)   Confiscate and immediately destroy any animal which is diseased and
thereby endangers the health of a person or other animals;
      (4)   Confiscate any animal which has bitten a human or which has acted
in a dangerous manner as described herein;
      (5)   Immediately destroy an animal posing an imminent danger to persons
or property under circumstances of emergency; and/or
      (6)   Confiscate and immediately destroy an animal that is injured to a
degree presenting little or no likelihood of recovery.
   (B)   If an animal is found running astray upon the premises of any person,
the owner or occupant thereof shall have the right to confine the animal
temporarily, in a humane fashion, pending notification and response of the
Animal Control Officer or other authority. When so notified, it shall be the
duty (during regular working hours) of the Animal Control Officer to take
possession and impound the animal in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   The confiscation of livestock by the city is hereby prohibited and
notification shall be made to the County Sheriff’s Department for removal and
impoundment.
(1981 Code, § 4.5) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 RECLAIMING OF CONFISCATED ANIMALS.
   (A)   The owner can resume possession of any confiscated animal (except
where prohibited by this chapter) upon payment of the current animal shelter
fees, any veterinarian fees incurred by the animal shelter for the welfare of
the animal and upon compliance with the vaccination and registration provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Disposition of animals confiscated on the grounds of cruel or inhumane
treatment shall be determined by the court of jurisdiction.
   (C)   If any animal is being held under quarantine or observation for
rabies, the owner shall not be entitled to possession until it has been
released from quarantine, thereupon, the owner can resume possession under the
provisions of division (A) above.
   (D)   Animals may be reclaimed from the Gregg County Humane Shelter in
Greggton.
   (E)   All animals housed in this facility must be reclaimed within 72 hours.
All animals are destroyed after that time.
(1981 Code, § 4.5.1)
§ 90.07 ANIMAL NUISANCE.
   The following shall be considered a public nuisance and shall be unlawful:
   (A)   The keeping of any animal, which by causing frequent or long continued
barking or noise, shall disturb any person of ordinary sensibilities in the
vicinity;
   (B)   The keeping of any animal in a manner so as to endanger the public
health; to annoy neighbors by the accumulation of animal wastes which cause
foul and offensive odors, or are considered to be hazard to any other animal or
human being; or by continued presence on the premises of another; and
   (C)   All animal pens, stables or enclosures in which any animal may be kept
or confined which, from use have become offensive to a person of ordinary
sensibilities.
(1981 Code, § 4.6) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to keep any wild animal inside the city shall
secure a permit from City Hall for $100.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to release or allow to run at large any wild or
vicious animals inside the city.
(1981 Code, § 4.7) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any vicious animal found running at large may be destroyed by any
peace officer or animal control officer in the interest of public safety.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer may order any owner or person having care,
control or custody of any vicious animal to take the animal permanently from
the city.
      (1)   This animal must be removed immediately following receipt of such
an order, even if an appeal is initiated. This order may be appealed in writing
within ten days to a committee made up of the Chief of Police, the Mayor or his
or her representative, and the City Attorney or his or her representative. The
committee may uphold, reverse or modify the Animal Control Officer’s order, and
may stipulate restrictions on the animal as a condition to allowing the animal
to remain in the city.
      (2)   If the committee upholds the Animal Control Officer’s order, then
the owner may appeal the decision of the committee to the City Council. The
City Council shall have final authority on all matters.
      (3)   If the City Council upholds the committee’s order, then the owner
or person having care, control or custody shall not bring the animal back
inside the city limits.
   (C)   If the owner or person having care, custody or control of a vicious
animal fails to remove the animal as provided for in divisions (A) and (B)
above, the animal may be confiscated and/or destroyed.
(1981 Code, § 4.8) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   The owner or person in possession of animals shall keep yards, pens and
enclosures in which the animals are confined in a manner so as not to give off
odors offensive to persons of ordinary sensibilities residing in the vicinity,
or to breed or attract flies, mosquitoes or other noxious insects, or, in any
manner to endanger the public health or safety, or create a public nuisance.
(1981 Code, § 4.9) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 PET CARE.
   It is hereby prohibited and shall be unlawful for any person to willfully
abandon any animal; or to withhold food or water from any animal so that its
health is endangered, or to treat the animal in a way that it suffers unduly.
(1981 Code, § 4.10) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 CHIEF OF POLICE AS LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITY.
   The City Council appoints the Chief of Police of the city to be the legally
appointed Local Health Authority, as required by the Rabies Control Act of
1981, being Tex. Health & Safety Code, §§ 826.001 et seq.
(1981 Code, § 7.1) (Ord. passed 2-14-1989)
POULTRY (FOWL) RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.25 DECLARING POULTRY RUNNING AT LARGE; ODORS AND NOISE.
   The running at large of any poultry, namely chickens, geese, ducks, turkeys
or guinea fowls, emus and/or ostriches and odors and noise from the same,
within the city limits are hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(1981 Code, § 4.12)
§ 90.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner of any poultry, as are
named is §
90.25, found running at large within the city limits, and not on the premises
of the owner, to immediately take them up, and keep them from running at large,
and from depredating upon the premises of another, and to keep them from
running at large on the public streets of the city.
(1981 Code, § 4.12)
§ 90.27 CONFISCATING OF POULTRY.
   (A)   When any poultry are found running at large for whom no owner can be
found as required by §
90.26, or if the owner shall refuse to take up his or her poultry after being
notified, then it shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to confiscate
the poultry, and if no owner shall claim the same within three days after the
confiscation the Animal Control Officer shall proceed to sell the same at
public auction, after giving five days’ notice of the sale by three written or
printed notices to be posted at three public places within the city limits.
      (1)   The notice shall state the number of poultry, kind to be sold, and
the time and place of sale.
      (2)   After paying the expenses of taking up and keeping the poultry, and
the costs of the sale, the balance, if any, is to be paid to the owner of the
poultry, and if not claimed by the owner, is to be paid into the city treasury.
   (B)   Any poultry taken up by the Animal Control Officer may be returned to
the owner at any time before their sale, by the owner paying all costs due to
confiscation.
(1981 Code, § 4.14)
HITCHING OF ANIMALS
§ 90.40 HITCHING OF ANIMALS IN CERTAIN LOCATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hitch or tie any animal to any pole,
street light or any other fixture in the city limits.
(1981 Code, § 4.21) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect from and after its publication one time in
the official publication of the city, which publication shall contain the
caption, stating in summary the purpose of this subchapter and the penalty for
violations thereof.
(1981 Code, § 4.23)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates a provision of §§
90.01 through
90.11 is guilty of a separate offense for each day or portion of a day during
which the violation is committed, continued or is permitted, and each offense
is punishable as follows:
         (a)   First offense: a written warning; and
         (b)   Second offense: a fine not exceeding $25.
      (2)   Additional offenses occurring within 12 months, fine of not less
than $50 nor more than $200.
(1981 Code, § 4.11)
   (C)   When the owner of any poultry found running at large has been notified
as required in §
90.26, and shall fail to take up his or her poultry, he or she shall be deemed
to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction may be fined in any sum not
exceeding $10.
(1981 Code, § 4.13)
   (D)   Any person hitching or tying any animal as prescribed the §
90.40 shall be fined in any sum not to exceed $10.
(1981 Code, § 4.22)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fire Marshal
   
91.01   Creation of Office of Fire Marshal
   
91.02   Investigation of fires
   
91.03   Taking testimony and oaths
   
91.04   Power to summon witnesses
   
91.05   Refusal to testify
   
91.06   Right to private investigations
   
91.07   Right to enter buildings
   
91.08   Order for repairs or removal
   
91.09   Keeping hazardous buildings
   
91.10   Improper arrangement of heating appliances
   
91.11   Required order before prosecution
   
91.12   Recovering penalties
   
91.13   Separate and distinct offenses
   
91.14   Fire Marshal; term of office
Fire Prevention Code
   
91.25   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code
   
91.26   Enforcement
   
91.27   Storage of flammable liquids
   
91.28   Amendments
   
91.29   Modifications
   
91.30   Appeals
Arson Reward
   
91.40   Setting reward
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   City Organizations, see
Ch. 31
   Emergency Management, see
Ch. 32
   Fireworks and the Like, see
Ch. 92
   Officials and Employees, see
Ch. 33
FIRE MARSHAL
§ 91.01 CREATION OF OFFICE OF FIRE MARSHAL.
   (A)   The Office of Fire Marshal is hereby created. The Office shall be
independent of other city departments, the Fire Marshal reporting directly to
the Mayor and City Council.
   (B)   The Office shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, by and with
the consent of the City Council. The Fire Marshal shall be properly qualified
for the duties of his or her office, and shall be removed only for cause.
   (C)   He or she shall receive an annual salary as set by the City Council.
(1981 Code, § 7.1)
§ 91.02 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances
of every fire occurring within this city by which property has been destroyed
or damaged, and shall especially make investigation as to whether the fire was
the result of carelessness or design.
   (B)   The investigation shall be made within 24 hours, not including Sunday
of the occurrence of the fire.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal shall keep in his or her office a record of all
fires, together with all facts, statistics and circumstances, including the
origin of the fires and the amount of the loss, which may be determined by the
investigation required by this subchapter.
(1981 Code, § 7.2)
§ 91.03 TAKING TESTIMONY AND OATHS.
   The Fire Marshal, when in his or her opinion further investigation is
necessary, shall take or cause to be taken the testimony, on oath, of all
persons supposed to be cognizant of any facts or to have means of knowledge in
relation to the matter under investigation, and shall cause the same to be
reduced in writing; and if he or she shall be of the opinion that there is
evidence sufficient to charge any person with the crime of arson, or with the
attempt to commit the crime of arson, or of conspiracy to defraud, or criminal
conduct in connection with the fire, he or she shall cause the person to be
lawfully arrested and charged with the offense or either of them, and shall
furnish to the proper prosecuting attorney all the evidence, together with the
names of witnesses and all of the information obtained by him or her, including
a copy of all pertinent and material testimony taken in the case.
(1981 Code, § 7.3)
§ 91.04 POWER TO SUMMON WITNESSES.
   The Fire Marshal shall have the power to summon witnesses before him or her
to testify in relation to any matter which is by the provisions of this
subchapter a subject of inquiry and investigation, and may require the
production of any book, paper or document deemed pertinent thereto. The Fire
Marshal is hereby authorized and empowered to administer oaths and affirmations
to any persons appearing as witnesses before him or her.
(1981 Code, § 7.4)
§ 91.05 REFUSAL TO TESTIFY.
   Any witness who refuses to be sworn, or refuses to appear or testify, or who
disobeys any lawful order of the Fire Marshal, or who fails or refuses to
produce any book, paper or document touching any matter under examination, or
who is guilty of any contemptuous conduct during any of the proceedings of the
Fire Marshal in the matter of the investigation or inquiry, after being
summoned to give testimony in relation to any matter under investigation as
aforesaid, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor: and it shall be the duty of
the Fire Marshal to cause all the offenders to be prosecuted. Any person being
convicted of any like misdemeanor shall be fined in a sum not exceeding $200;
provided, however, that any person so convicted shall have the right to appeal.
(1981 Code, § 7.5)
§ 91.06 RIGHT TO PRIVATE INVESTIGATIONS.
   Any investigations held by or under the direction of the Fire Marshal may,
in his or her discretion, be private, and persons other than those required to
be present may be excluded from the place where the investigation is held, and
witnesses may be kept separate and apart from each other and not allowed to
communicate with each other until they have been examined.
(1981 Code, § 7.6)
§ 91.07 RIGHT TO ENTER BUILDINGS.
   The Fire Marshal shall have the authority at all times of day or night, when
necessary, in the performance of the duties imposed upon him or her by the
provisions of this subchapter, to enter upon and examine any building or
premises where any fire has occurred, and other buildings and premises
adjoining or near the same, which authority shall be exercised only with reason
and good discretion.
(1981 Code, § 7.7)
§ 91.08 ORDER FOR REPAIRS OR REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, upon complaint of any person having an interest in
any building or property adjacent and without any complaint, shall have a right
at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of examination, to enter into and upon
all buildings and premises within the city, and it shall be his or her duty,
monthly or more often, to enter upon and make or cause to be entered and made,
a thorough examination of all mercantile, manufacturing and public buildings,
together with the premises belonging thereto.
   (B)   Whenever he or she shall find any building or other structure which,
for want of repair, or by reason of age or dilapidated condition, or for any
cause, is especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to endanger
other buildings or property, or so occupied that fire would endanger persons or
property therein, and whenever he or she shall find an improper or dangerous
arrangement of stoves, ranges, furnaces or other heating appliances of any kind
whatsoever, including chimneys, flues and pipes with which the same may be
connected, or a dangerous arrangement of lighting devices or systems, or a
dangerous or unlawful storage of explosives, compounds, petroleum, gasoline,
kerosene, dangerous chemicals, vegetable products, ashes, combustible
inflammable and refuse materials, or other conditions which may be dangerous in
character or liable to cause or promote fire or create conditions dangerous to
the firefighters or occupants, he or she shall order the same to be removed or
remedied, and the order shall be forthwith complied with by the owner or
occupant of the building or premises; provided, however, that if the owner or
occupant deems himself or herself aggrieved by the order, he or she may, within
five days, appeal to the Mayor, who shall investigate the cause of the
complaint, and unless by his or her authority the order is revoked, the order
shall remain in force and be forthwith complied with by the owner or occupant.
At the end of each month, the Fire Marshal shall report to the State Fire
Marshal all existing hazardous conditions, together with a separate report on
each fire in the city during the month.
(1981 Code, § 7.8)
§ 91.09 KEEPING HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS.
   Any owner or occupant of a building or other structure or premises, who
shall keep or maintain the same when, for want of repair, or by reason of age
or dilapidated condition, or for any cause, it is especially liable to fire,
and which is so situated as to endanger buildings or property of others, or is
especially liable to fire and which is so occupied that fire would endanger
other persons or their property therein, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $200.
(1981 Code, § 7.9)
§ 91.10 IMPROPER ARRANGEMENT OF HEATING APPLIANCES.
   Any owner or occupant of any building or other structure or premises, who
shall keep or maintain the same with an improper arrangement of a stove, range,
furnace or other heating appliance of any kind whatever, including chimneys,
flues and pipes with which the same may be connected, so as to be dangerous in
the matter of fire, or health, or safety of persons or property of others; or
who shall keep or maintain any building, other structure or premises with an
improper arrangement of a lighting device or system, or with a storage of
explosives, petroleum, gasoline, kerosene, chemicals, vegetable products,
ashes, combustibles, inflammable materials, refuse or with any other condition
which shall be dangerous in the matter of promoting, augmenting or causing
fires; or which shall create conditions dangerous to firefighters, or occupants
of the building, structure or premises other than the maintainer thereof, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $200.
(1981 Code, § 7.10)
§ 91.11 REQUIRED ORDER BEFORE PROSECUTION.
   No prosecution shall be brought under §§
91.09 and
91.10, until the order provided for in §
91.08 be given, and the party notified shall fail or refuse to comply with the
same.
(1981 Code, § 7.11)
§ 91.12 RECOVERING PENALTIES.
   The penalties provided for herein shall be recovered by the city in the same
manner as provided by law for the enforcement of fines, forfeitures and
punishments for offenses against the city.
(1981 Code, § 7.12)
§ 91.13 SEPARATE AND DISTINCT OFFENSES.
   Every day’s maintenance of any of the conditions prohibited in any of the
foregoing sections shall be a distinct and separate offense.
(1981 Code, § 7.13)
§ 91.14 FIRE MARSHAL; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Fire Marshal position will be for a term of one year, with an evaluation
at the end of that year.
(Ord. passed 1- -1995)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 91.25 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the Council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the Fire Prevention Code, recommended by
the American Insurance Association, being particularly the 1965 edition thereof
and the whole thereof, save and except those portions as are revised or
excluded of which code not less than three copies have been and are now filed
in the office of the City Secretary and the same are hereby adopted and
incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the date on
which this subchapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be
controlling within the limits of the city.
(1981 Code, § 7.20) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 91.26 ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire Department,
(1981 Code, § 7.21) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 91.27 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS.
   The limits referred to in § 73 of the Code, hereby adopted, in which storage
of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is prohibited, the limits
referred to in § 103 of the Code hereby adopted, in which bulk storage of
liquified petroleum gas is restricted, and the limits referred to in § 53b of
the Code hereby adopted in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is
prohibited, are hereby established as follows: the corporate limits of the
city.
(1981 Code, § 7.22) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 91.28 AMENDMENTS.
   The Code hereby adopted is amended and changed in the following respects: §
78, paragraphs a, b, c, d, e and f are amended as follows: § 78 of the October,
1966 Revision of the Fire Prevention Code will replace the § 78 of the 1965
Abbreviated Edition of the Fire Prevention Code.
(1981 Code, § 7.23) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 91.29 MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the Code hereby adopted upon application in writing by the owner
or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the Code, provided
that the spirit of the Code shall be observed, public safety secured, and
substantial justice done. The particulars of the modification when granted or
allowed and the decision of the Chief of the Fire Department thereon shall be
entered upon the records of the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished
the applicant.
(1981 Code, § 7.24) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 91.30 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to the Council within 30 days from
the date of the decision appealed.
(1981 Code, § 7.25) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
ARSON REWARD
§ 91.40 SETTING REWARD.
   A reward of $500 is offered for the arrest and indictment of any person or
persons guilty of the crime of arson within the corporate limits of the city.
(1981 Code, § 7.30) (Ord. passed 12-9-1935)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the Code hereby
adopted, or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply
with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate of permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified by
the Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
herein, shall severally for each and every like violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than
$200. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the
violation or permit it to continue; and all the persons shall be required to
correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable time; and when
not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited conditions are
maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent the
enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(1981 Code, § 7.26)
CHAPTER 92: FIREWORKS AND THE LIKE
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Fireworks usage and sales
   
92.03   Exceptions
   
92.04   Territorial applicability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS. Includes any firecrackers, cannon crackers, sky-rockets,
torpedoes, Roman candles, sparklers, squibs, fire balloons, star shells, gerbs
or any other substance in whatever combination by any designated name intended
for use in obtaining visible or audible pyrotechnic display, and shall include
all articles or substances within the commonly accepted meaning of FIREWORKS,
whether herein specially designated or defined or not.
   PERSON. Includes any natural person, association of persons, partnerships,
corporations, agent or officer of corporation, and shall also include all
warehousemen, common and private carriers, bailees, trustees, receivers,
executors and administrators.
(Ord. 2004-08101, passed - -)
§ 92.02 FIREWORKS USAGE AND SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to sell fireworks within the corporate city
limits without a permit, issued at City Hall and except on the following dates:
ten days before the holidays of New Year’s Day, July 4 and Christmas Day. Sales
must cease at midnight on the day of the holiday.
   (B)   It is unlawful to use fireworks except for a period of two days before
New Year’s Day, July 4 and Christmas Day, and two days after. All fireworks
must cease at 10:00 p.m., with the exception of the above-named holidays, when
they must cease at 12:00 midnight.
(Ord. 2004-08101, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to signal flares and torpedoes of the type and
kind commonly used by any railroad and which signal flares and torpedoes are
received by and stored or transported by any railroad for use in railroad
operation; nor shall this chapter apply to signal flares or rockets for
military or police use.
(Ord. 2004-08101, passed - -)
§ 92.04 TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be applicable and in force throughout the territory of
the city, within its corporate limits.
(Ord. 2004-08101, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall use, discharge, cause to be discharged, ignite,
detonate, fire or otherwise set in action or sell, at any time other than those
given in §
92.02 shall be fined not less than $25 and no more than $200. Any parent or
guardian of any minor child below the age of 14 who permits or allows the minor
child to use, discharge, ignite, detonate, fire or otherwise set in action any
fireworks shall be fined not less than $25 and no more than $200. All minor
children must have a guardian or parent present when, during the allowed times,
fireworks are in use.
(Ord. 2004-08101, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
Deposit of Litter
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Depositing litter upon streets
   
93.03   Depositing litter upon private property
   
93.04   Throwing litter from vehicles
Nuisances on Private Property
   
93.15   Definition
   
93.16   Duty to maintain private property
   
93.17   Notice to removal or abate nuisance
   
93.18   Appeals
   
93.19   City may remove or abate nuisance
   
93.20   Filing statement of expenses; lien
   
93.21   Limitations
   
93.22   Effective date
 
   
93.99   Penalty
DEPOSIT OF LITTER
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED RECEPTACLE. A litter storage or collection receptacle and shall
be a waterproof type receptacle of a solid and durable grade of metal of not
less than ten nor more than 30-gallon capacity, with a tight fitting lid or
cover, handles sufficiently strong for workpersons to empty conveniently, and
shall not have inside there anything preventing the free discharge of the
contents.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparing, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined and all other waste material
which, if thrown or deposited herein tends to create a danger to public safety,
health and welfare.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
public area in the city owned or used by the city and devoted to active or
passive recreation.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure,
designated or used either wholly or part for private residential purposes,
whether inhabited or temporary or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, ground, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging to or appurtenant the dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, space, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE. Any putrescible solid waste, except body waste, including garbage,
rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles and solid
market and industrial waste.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste containing both combustible and non-
combustible waste, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, card- board, tin cans,
yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is, or may
be transported or drawn, upon a highway including the rights as used
exclusively, stationary railways or tracks.
(1981 Code, § 9.40)
§ 93.02 DEPOSITING LITTER UPON STREETS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the city except in public receptacles or in
authorized private receptacles. Persons placing litter in public or private
receptacles shall do so in a manner so as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other public place, or
upon private property.
(1981 Code, § 9.41) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 DEPOSITING LITTER UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter upon any occupied or unoccupied
private property within the city, whether owned by the person or not. No owner
or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection of litter in a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public places or upon any private property.
(1981 Code, § 9.42) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 THROWING LITTER FROM VEHICLES.
   No person while a driver or a passenger in a vehicle shall throw or deposit
litter upon the street or any public place within the city or upon private
property.
(1981 Code, § 9.43) Penalty, see §
93.99
NUISANCES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 93.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
detrimental to the property of others or which causes or tends to cause
substantial diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood in
which the premises are located. This includes, but is not limited to, the
keeping or the depositing on, or the scattering over the premises of any of the
following:
      (1)   Lumber, building materials, junk, trash or debris;
      (2)   Storage of furniture, other than furniture designed for outside
use, household items, products of a commercial trade or business enterprise,
whether those items are so used or not outside;
      (3)   Abandoned, discarded or unused objects or equipment such as
automobiles, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans or containers;
      (4)   Items of salvage such as scrap metals, rags, papers, bottles, cans
and similar items;
      (5)   Any compost pile which is of such a nature as to spread or harbor
disease, emit unpleasant odors or harmful gas or attract rodents, vermin or
other disease-carrying pests, animals or insects;
      (6)   Keeping unsanitary matter on premises. It shall be unlawful for any
person to keep, or permit another to keep, upon any premises deleterious or
septic material, unless the material is retained in containers or vessels which
deny access to humans, flies, insects, rodents and animals; and
      (7)   Any inoperable, dismantled, wrecked or junked vehicles, motorized
or otherwise.
(Ord. 5-14-91, passed 4-14-1991) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16 DUTY TO MAINTAIN PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person owning, leasing, occupying or having charge of any premises shall
maintain or keep any nuisance thereon, nor shall any like person keep or
maintain the premises in a manner causing substantial diminution in the value
of the other property in the neighborhood in which the premises are located.
(Ord. 5-14-91, passed 4-14-1991) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 NOTICE TO REMOVE OR ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   Upon becoming aware of conditions set forth herein, the Mayor or his
or her designated representative shall make a determination whether or not the
conditions and circumstances constitute a nuisance as herein defined, and if it
is determined that the conditions, if not abated, will constitute a nuisance,
the official shall give notice to the owner, tenant or person in control of the
premises, or an agent thereof, to remedy the condition within ten days. The
notice shall be given to the owner, tenant or person in control of the
premises, or an agent thereof, in writing in the following manner:
      (1)   If the owner, tenant or person in control of the premises, or an
agent thereof, and his or her residence is known, the notice shall be:
         (a)   By personal service to the owner, tenant or person in
possession, by the Mayor or his or her designated representative, or any peace
officer of the city; and/or
         (b)   By registered mail with return receipt requested addressed to
the last known address of the owner.
      (2)   If the ownership of the building is unknown, then the notice shall
be considered served by attaching a copy of it in a place of prominence on the
building; and
      (3)   When a complaint under this section has been made as to the
condition of a particular property, the ownership of which has been granted or
accrued to the heirs of any deceased person, and if the names of the heirs are
unknown, the notice shall be directed against them, their heirs or legal
representatives, describing them as the heirs of the named ancestor.
   (B)   The notice shall state the nature of the nuisance on the private
property and that it must be removed or abated within ten days, and further
that a request for a hearing must be made before the expiration of the ten-day
period if the owner, tenant or person in control of the premises, or agent
thereof, wishes to appeal the determination.
   (C)   If the nuisance is not removed and abated and a hearing is not
requested within the ten-day period provided, a complaint may be filed in
Municipal Court for the violation of maintaining a nuisance on private
property.
(Ord. 5-14-91, passed 4-14-1991)
§ 93.18 APPEALS.
   (A)   The owner, tenant or person in control of the premises, or agent
thereof, ordered to abate the nuisance may request a hearing before the City
Council in order to show cause why the premises are not a nuisance. The date of
hearing shall not be less than ten days after written notice has been mailed to
the appellant.
   (B)   On the day set in the notice for hearing, the hearing shall be had and
on the basis of the hearing, the City Council shall make its decision to the
effect that the property is in fact a nuisance or not. The judgment shall
further contain an order, as the facts may justify, requiring the owner, tenant
or person in control of the premises, or agent thereof, to abate the nuisance
within a time designated by the City Council.
   (C)   If the nuisance is not removed or abated within the time allowed by
the City Council then a complaint shall be filed in Municipal Court for the
violation of maintaining a nuisance on private property. Any person found
guilty of maintaining a nuisance as defined in this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine for each offense as provided above, and
the Municipal Court shall order removal and abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. 5-14-91, passed 4-14-1991) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.19 CITY MAY REMOVE OR ABATE NUISANCE.
   (A)   If the owner, tenant or person in control of the premises, or agent
thereof fails to comply with the order to remove or abate any nuisance then in
addition to any fine which may be levied against the person, the court may
allow the city to remove or abate the nuisance.
   (B)   The city may then cause the nuisance to be removed or abated, and the
expenses of the procedure shall be charged against the owner and shall
thereupon become a valid and enforceable personal obligation of the owner of
the premises which may be recovered by the city in a suit brought for the
purposes; and the city may assess the expenses on the property on which the
nuisance is located or situated, and make the same a lien thereon.
(Ord. 5-14-91, passed 4-14-1991)
§ 93.20 FILING STATEMENT OF EXPENSES; LIEN.
   (A)   Whenever the city shall have performed any work or paid any necessary
expenses in connection with any work done in the removal or abatement of any
nuisance, it shall be the duty of the Mayor to immediately prepare and deliver
or mail to the owner of the property upon which the nuisance was located an
itemized statement in the form of an affidavit, duly sworn to, of all the work
performed and all costs and expenses incurred and paid by the city in
connection therewith.
   (B)   The statement shall be sent to the owner of the property if his or her
true address is known; if not, then to the owner of record according to the
last official tax rolls of the city at the address carried in connection
therewith.
   (C)   The affidavit, among other things and provisions, shall contain the
following:
      (1)   Name and address of owner, and name and address of tenant or agent
of property, if known, and if unknown recite the fact;
      (2)   Description of the property sufficient to identify same, and where
property has been subdivided, a description by lot and block number of any
particular subdivision shall be sufficient, or the description as per the
revised map of the city;
      (3)   Statement of the action of the city;
      (4)   Itemized statement of the work done and performed, together with
the cost thereof opposite each item; and
      (5)   Statement of payment made by the city to other parties, and to whom
made, or reasonable charges by any concerned city department.
   (D)   Upon delivery or mailing of the statement and affidavit provided for
above, the city shall be entitled to the payment of the aggregate amount so
expended, or reasonable charges for city work, or costs paid, as therein set
forth.
   (E)   Should the owner fail or refuse to pay the amount due within 30 days
thereafter, the affidavit containing the information as set out hereinabove,
signed by the Mayor, shall be filed with the County Clerk.
   (F)   The statement, when filed, shall constitute a lien upon the property
on which the expense was incurred, second only to tax liens and liens for
street improvements, and the amount remaining unpaid on the statement shall
accrue interest at rate of 10% per annum from the date of expenditure by the
city, or from the date that the city itself performed the work and incurred the
expense, as provided for in Tex. Health and Safety Code, Art. 342.005, 342.006
and 342.007.
(Ord. 5-14-91, passed 4-14-1991)
§ 93.21 LIMITATIONS.
   This subchapter shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state or
federal statute.
(Ord. 5-14-91, passed 4-14-1991)
§ 93.22 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter, after being adopted by the City Council, shall be in full
force and effect upon notice of the adoption being advertised in one weekly
issue of the Big Sandy-Hawkins Journal, Big Sandy, Texas.
(Ord. 5-14-91, passed 4-14-1991)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Persons disposing of garbage, rubbish or junk, including §§
93.01 through
93.04, at any place within the city limits or within 3,500 feet outside the
city limits will be guilty of committing a misdemeanor and will be subject to a
fine not to exceed $200 for each and every offense.
(1981 Code, § 9.44)
   (C)   Any person found guilty of maintaining a nuisance, as defined in §
93.15, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and be subject to a fine for each
offense in an amount not less than $50, nor more than $200, and the Municipal
Court shall order removal and abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. 5-14-91, passed 4-14-1991)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Construction of Driveways
   
94.01   Prohibiting driveways near fire plugs
Driveways Accessing State Highways
   
94.15   Permit requirement
Street and Highway Maintenance Safety
   
94.25   Exercise of police power
   
94.26   Safety precautions by city and state
   
94.27   Signs and barricades
House Numbering
   
94.40   House number requirements
 
   
94.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Management, see
Ch. 32
   Public Nuisances, see
Ch. 93
   Zoning Commission, see §§
31.30 through
31.38
CONSTRUCTION OF DRIVEWAYS
§ 94.01 PROHIBITING DRIVEWAYS NEAR FIRE PLUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone in the city limits to build or construct a
driveway located within ten feet of a fire plug.
(1981 Code, § 6.60) Penalty, see §
94.99
DRIVEWAYS ACCESSING STATE HIGHWAYS
§ 94.15 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   Any land owner or any other person shall not be allowed an access driveway
onto any state highway or city street located within the corporate limits of
the city, unless and until he or she has obtained a permit to construct an
access driveway to a state highway, issued by the City Secretary and approved
by the authorized representative of the State Highway Department, stating that
the proposed access driveway shall comply in all respects to the regulations
set out in the booklet entitled Regulations for Access Driveways to State
Highways, adopted September 1953, and as finally revised November 1963.
(1981 Code, § 14.40) (Ord. passed 4-13-1965) Penalty, see §
94.99
STREET AND HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE SAFETY
§ 94.25 EXERCISE OF POLICE POWER.
   This subchapter is and shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of
the city under the authority of the laws of the state and its Charter, for the
purpose of public safety, comfort and to protect the health, life and general
welfare of the citizens of the city and the general public using the streets
and highways within the city limits; all of the provisions hereof shall be
construed for the accomplishments of that purpose.
(1981 Code, § 14.50) (Ord. passed 9-1-1971)
§ 94.26 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS BY CITY AND STATE.
   The Maintenance Department of the city, and the State Highway Department
and/or the contractors of the city or Highway Department, when performing
surveys, maintenance, repairs, construction and/or reconstruction in, under,
over, across or upon the highways and streets or adjacent thereto, situated
with the city are hereby authorized and empowered as follows:
   (A)   To place, to erect or cause to be placed or erected, barricades and/or
warning signs on all approaches, on the streets or highways, including side
streets, to areas or sections where maintenance repair, construction and/or
reconstruction is being carried on, at a distance from those areas sufficient
to warn the operators of motor vehicles of the areas and danger;
   (B)   To place or erect, or cause to be placed or erected, other warning
signs, devices, as well as signs or instructions in and along the construction
route and area calculated to warn traveling motorists and operators of motor
vehicles of any danger;
   (C)   To place or erect or cause to be placed or erected, signs designating
speed zones to the approach and through the area where the construction or work
is being carried on. These speed zones to be determined under engineering
studies calculated to expedite traffic at a safe speed. In no case shall the
speed zones exceed the prima facie maximum speed limit normally in effect;
   (D)   To place or erect or cause to be erected “no parking signs” in and
along the route where maintenance repairs, construction and/or reconstruction
is being conducted on and/or detour routes when it is determined by the city or
the State Highway Department, whichever the work is being conducted under and
that parking will interfere with the work and/or the safety flow of the traffic
the “no parking signs” may contain a specified time period during which the
restrictions are in effect;
   (E)   To use flaggers on the approaches and in and about the construction
area for the purpose of controlling traffic. When flaggers are utilized they
are hereby authorized to direct, control, to stop and instruct operators of
motor vehicles to proceed, with full authority as though the flagger was a law
enforcement officer of the city;
   (F)   To take any and all steps deemed necessary to protect the lives,
health and property of both the workers, the operators of motor vehicles
utilizing the street or highways, including re-routing the traffic across and
upon other adjacent streets within the city limits;
   (G)   Where the work is being carried on by a contractor or subcontractor of
either the city or the State Highway Department, the contractor and/or sub-
contractor shall exercise the authorization herein granted subject to the
approval and regulation of the city or the State Highway Department, whichever
one the work is being conducted under; and
   (H)   The determination by the city or the State Highway Department,
whichever the work is being conducted by or under their supervision, as to the
size, location and/or arrangement of the signs, barricades and/or the flaggers,
authorized herein shall be discretionary.
(1981 Code, § 14.51) (Ord. passed 9-1-1971)
§ 94.27 SIGNS AND BARRICADES.
   (A)   It shall hereinafter be unlawful for any driver or operator of any
motor vehicles in, across and upon the streets or highways of the city within
the city limits to disobey any warning signs, and barricades in and along and
about any area where maintenance, repair, construction and/or reconstruction is
being conducted in, under, over, across and upon the streets or highway within
the city limits.
      (1)   The operator or driver shall operate his or her vehicle at a speed
not to exceed the temporary posted prima facie maximum speed limit.
      (2)   The operator of motor vehicles shall obey the direction of all
flaggers on duty in that area, stop when signaled to do so and proceed in safe
and prudent manner with signal to proceed.
      (3)   When “no parking” signs are posted or displayed, no person or
persons shall stop, park or leave standing any vehicles whether attended or
unattended along or upon any street or highway where maintenance, repairs,
construction and/or reconstruction is being carried on, or along any street or
highway that is being used as a detour route, whether men are working or not
(unless the “no parking” signs state a specific time period that the
restriction is in effect).
   (B)   When any city police officer, City Secretary, Mayor or Council member
finds or is informed that a vehicle is parked or stopped in a posted “no
parking” area as stated above, the official shall cause the illegally parked
vehicle to be removed by wrecker and the wrecker charges or any storage charges
shall be paid to the wrecker service by the owner before the vehicle is
released.
   (C)   This parking restriction shall not apply to any vehicle being used in
the repairs, construction and/or reconstruction operations or any vehicle being
used or operated by persons in a supervisory capacity or operating in any
official capacity in connection with the work being carried on.
(1981 Code, § 14.52) (Ord. passed 9-1-1971) Penalty, see §
94.99
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 94.40 HOUSE NUMBER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every house or building in the city limits shall display the house
number in a location visible from the road upon which the address number is
assigned.
   (B)   The numbers displayed on the house shall be visible from at least 50
feet and the view of the numbers not be blocked by trees or shrubs.
   (C)   Numbers may be displayed on a mailbox as long as the numbers are of
reflective material, are four inches, are placed on contrasting colors and are
visible from at least 50 feet.
   (D)   Numbers may be placed on a private sign or post at the entrance to the
driveway, at a height of three feet to four feet.
   (E)   Numbers should be at least three inches high (preferably four inches)
and be made of reflective material.
   (F)   The color of the numbers should be contrasting colors from the
background color of the building or post.
   (G)   State law allows daily fines for all properties not in compliance.
   (H)   This section will be enforced to the fullest extent of the law.
   (I)   The city will supply the house numbers, and furthermore will have
volunteers for the city to install the numbers for those persons requesting the
city’s assistance.
(Ord. 2003-3, passed 2-11-2003) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
94.01 shall be fined not to exceed $200, and shall cease construction of the
driveway immediately upon notice by the Police Chief or police officers of the
city.
(1981 Code, § 6.61)
   (C)   Any land owner or any person who shall open, use or attempt to open or
use any access driveway without first obtaining the permit shall be fined not
more than $200, or the city shall cause the driveway to be closed or access be
denied by appropriate obstructions located along the right-of-way line of the
state highway or city street, or both; provided that each day or part of each
day the land owner or other person shall use or attempt to use the driveway
shall be considered a separate offense.
(1981 Code, § 14.41)
   (D)   Any person or persons who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
94.25 through
94.27 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, fined an
amount not to exceed $200. In the case of a parking violation, the fine may be
imposed in addition to the wrecker and storage charges.
(1981 Code, § 14.53)
(Ord. passed 4-13-1965; Ord. passed 9-1-1971)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES
      
112.   BILLIARD AND POOL ROOMS
      
113.   FOOD HANDLING ESTABLISHMENTS
      
114.   WRECKER BUSINESS
      
115.   GARAGE AND YARD SALES
      
116.   ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND VENDORS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Rental Rates for Utilities
   
110.01   Quarterly reports
   
110.02   Examinations by city
   
110.03   Rental rates
   
110.04   Receipt for rental fees
   
110.05   Rental as privilege
   
110.06   Non-grant of franchise
Connection of Water and Sewer Lines
   
110.20   Required connection
   
110.21   Application and charges
   
110.22   Permit requirement
 
   
110.99   Penalty
RENTAL RATES FOR UTILITIES
§ 110.01 QUARTERLY REPORTS.
   All persons, associations, organizations and corporations using or
maintaining any telephone, electric, light or other poles, gas pipe lines,
pipes and other fixtures, in any of the streets, highways, easements, alleys,
parks or other places within the corporate limits of the city, shall make
quarterly, on the first day of January, April, July and October of each year,
and file with the City Secretary a sworn report showing the gross receipts from
the business conducted by the persons, associations, organizations and
corporations within the corporate limits of the city for the quarter next
preceding.
(1981 Code, § 15.20) (Ord. passed 10-6-1940) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02 EXAMINATIONS BY CITY.
   The City Council may, when it may see fit, have books and records of
persons, associations, organizations or corporations rendering the statement
required in §
110.01 examined by a representative of the city to ascertain whether the
statement is accurate, but nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to
prevent the city from ascertaining the facts by any other method.
(1981 Code, § 15.21) (Ord. passed 10-6-1940) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 RENTAL RATES.
   Upon the first day of January, April, July and October of each and every
year, every person, association, organization or corporation occupying or using
the streets, highways, easements, alleys, parks or other public places in the
city, with poles, pipes and for other fixtures shall as a condition to further
occupancy pay to the city, for the privileges a rental equal to 2% of the gross
receipts received by the person, association, organization or corporation from
its business conducted in the corporate limits of the city, for the quarter
next preceding.
(1981 Code, § 15.22) (Ord. passed 10-6-1940)
§ 110.04 RECEIPT FOR RENTAL FEES.
   Upon receipt of the above rental by the city, the City Secretary shall
deliver to the person, association, organization or corporation paying the
same, a receipt for the rental. Upon receipt of the rental for the quarter
ending December 31 of each calendar year by the city, the City Secretary shall
deliver to the payer a permit which shall authorize the person, association,
organization or corporation to use and occupy the streets, highways, easements,
alleys, parks and other public ways of the city in carrying on its business for
the next 12 months.
(1981 Code, § 15.23) (Ord. passed 10-6-1940)
§ 110.05 RENTAL AS PRIVILEGE.
   The rental for the privilege of using the streets, alleys, highways,
easements and public places of the city, provided for in this subchapter is not
charged as a tax but is for the privilege now enjoyed and to be enjoyed by the
persons, associations, organizations and corporations using the streets,
easements, alleys and other public ways of the city in the conduct of their
respective businesses; and the charges are additional to all ad valorem and
franchise taxes and to all taxes of every nature whatsoever against the
persons, associations, organizations or corporations mentioned herein.
(1981 Code, § 15.24) (Ord. passed 10-6-1940)
§ 110.06 NON-GRANT OF FRANCHISE.
   This subchapter does not grant a franchise to any utility or person,
association, organization or corporation to use the streets, alleys, easements
or other public ways and shall never be so construed by the courts or
otherwise, and the city reserves the right to cancel the privileges granted
hereunder and refund the unearned rentals paid to the city.
(1981 Code, § 15.25) (Ord. passed 10-6-1940)
CONNECTION OF WATER AND SEWER LINES
§ 110.20 REQUIRED CONNECTION.
   It shall be the duty of every person owning, occupying or controlling
property within 250 feet of any sanitary sewer in the city limits to connect
all sinks, bathtubs, shower stalls, water closets (commodes) and privies
thereon with the sanitary sewer.
(1981 Code, § 15.30) (Ord. passed 12-13-1977)
§ 110.21 APPLICATION AND CHARGES.
   All persons desiring to connect with water mains or sewer mains belonging to
the city shall make application to the City Secretary of the city, who shall
have an estimate made of the cost of the labor and materials required to extend
service line from the water or sewer main involved to the property line of the
person making the application, and upon receipt of the estimated cost of the
labor and materials plus 15% of the material cost, the city will proceed to lay
the service line. In the event the amount deposited exceeds the actual cost of
labor and materials plus 15% of materials, the overpayment shall be refunded to
the applicant; and in the event the same is insufficient to cover the actual
cost of labor and materials plus 15% of the cost of the materials, connections
shall not be made to the same by the property owner until the deficiency is
paid.
(1981 Code, § 15.31) (Ord. passed 8-4-1952)
§ 110.22 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall make any excavation nor install any water or sewer
connection as herein provided without first having obtained a permit from the
city to do so, issued in accordance with this rule.
(1981 Code, § 15.32) (Ord. passed 8-4-1952) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Penalty for nonpayment. Every person, association, organization
and corporation, who shall operate any business without the payment of the
rentals provided for herein shall be subject to a penalty of $200 for each and
every day, in excess of 30 days, that the person, association, organization or
corporation shall conduct the business using and occupying the streets,
easements, alleys or other public ways of the city, without the payment of the
rentals which sum may be recovered by the city, in a court of competent
jurisdiction by suit filed therein.
(1981 Code, § 15.26)
      (2)   Penalty for refusing examinations. Every person, association,
organization or corporation and the local manager or agent of every person,
association, organization or corporation failing or refusing to allow the
examination provided in §
110.02, or failing or refusing to make report provided for in §
110.01, herein shall, upon conviction in the Municipal Court of the city, be
fined any sum not to exceed $200 and every day failure or refusal, as mentioned
in this section, shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1981 Code, § 15.27)
(Ord. passed 10-6-1940)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE SALES
Section
Locations and Fees
   
111.01   Consumption of alcoholic beverages in public prohibited
   
111.02   Levying fees by city
Public Nudity in Commercial Establishments; Alcoholic Beverages
   
111.15   Purpose
   
111.16   Prohibition
   
111.17   Injunctive relief
   
111.99   Penalty
LOCATIONS AND FEES
§ 111.01 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to consume any beer, wine,
malt or vinous liquors or any other alcoholic beverages regardless of the type
and strength thereof, while attending or being in or upon any public property
within the city, including, but not limited to, public school grounds, public
school buildings, football grounds and/or stadiums, basketball grounds and/or
stadiums, public parks, public streets or sidewalks, community public buildings
or any other public places of whatsoever character.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02 LEVYING FEES BY CITY.
   (A)   The city, hereafter shall levy and collect from every person licensed
as provided under the Texas Liquor Control Act, a fee on each license equal to
one-half of the fee levied by the state for the license, issued as provided for
by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the levying, assessing and
collecting of general ad valorem taxes on the property of the license.
(1981 Code, § 3.10) (Ord. passed 6-7-1971)
PUBLIC NUDITY IN COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS; ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 111.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit certain acts of commercial
exploitation of human sexuality in commercial establishments within the city
limits, where alcoholic beverages are served, offered for sale for consumption
on the premises, or permitted to be consumed on the premises, and to reduce the
likelihood of criminal activity, moral degradation and disturbances of the
peace and good order of the community, to prohibit lewd and unlawful activity,
such as prostitution and the proliferation of controlled substances, all of
which may occur when the commercial exploitation is permitted in those places,
and to promote the preservation of property values of neighborhoods and
adjacent properties.
(Ord. 42297, passed 4-22-1997)
§ 111.16 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person maintaining, owning or operating a
commercial establishment located within the boundaries of the city, at which
alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the premises, or at
which alcoholic beverages are permitted to be consumed:
      (1)   To suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of the
commercial establishment, to expose that area of the human female breast at or
below the top of the areola thereof;
      (2)   To suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of the
commercial establishment, to use any device or covering which is intended to
give the appearance of or simulate those portions of the human female breasts
as described in division (A)(1) above; or
      (3)   To suffer or permit any person, while on the premises of the
commercial establishment, to expose his or her genitals, pubic area, buttocks,
anus or anal cleft or cleavage.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any female person, while on the premises of a
commercial establishment located within the boundary areas of the city, at
which alcoholic beverages are served or offered for sale for consumption on the
premises, or at which alcoholic beverages are permitted to be consumed, to
expose that area of the human female breast at or below the top of the areola
thereof or to use any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance or simulate those areas of the female breast as described herein.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while on the premises of a
commercial establishment located within the boundaries of the city, at which
alcoholic beverages are offered for sale for consumption on the premises, or at
which alcoholic beverages are permitted to be consumed, to expose his or her
genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage, or to use any
device or covering which is intended to give the appearance of or simulate the
genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or anal cleft or cleavage.
(Ord. 42297, passed 4-22-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.17 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   The City Attorney is and shall be hereby authorized to seek compliance with
this subchapter by seeking injunctive relief in a court of proper jurisdiction
to compel the operator, owner or other violator of this subchapter as the same
shall be established, to comply with the terms and provisions thereof. The
ability of the city to seek injunctive relief hereunder shall not be subject
to, nor shall it be a prerequisite thereof that the city has sought compliance
with this subchapter by application of penalties and sanctions as otherwise set
out in this subchapter.
(Ord. 42297, passed 4-22-1997)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, company or corporation violating the terms of §§
111.01 through
111.02 shall be subject to a fine of a maximum of $200. Each and every
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(1981 Code, § 3.4)
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.17 shall be subject to the general penalties applicable for the violations
as the same are set out in the code of ordinances of the city.
(Ord. 42297, passed 4-22-1997)
CHAPTER 112: BILLIARD AND POOL ROOMS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License requirements
   
112.03   License fees for pool halls and pool tables
   
112.04   Electronic games; license fees
   
112.05   Operation within certain areas
   
112.06   Term of license
   
112.07   Alcoholic beverages
   
112.08   Revocation of license
   
112.09   Inspection; Health Officer
   
112.10   Hours of operation
   
112.11   Effective date
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLIARD TABLE or POOL TABLE. Any table, whether coin-operated or not,
surrounded by a ledge or cushion with or without pockets upon which balls are
impelled by a stick or cue.
   ELECTRONIC GAMES. Any marble machine, slot machine, coin machine or other
similar machine used for public amusement.
   GAME ROOM. Any building, room, structure or any other place, in which is
exhibited for hire, revenue, fees or gain of any kind, any type of electronic
game.
   POOL HALL. Any building, room, structure or any other place in which is
exhibited for hire, revenue, fees or gain of any kind any pool or billiard
table.
(1981 Code, § 5.1)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association of persons,
corporation and every other organization, save and except religious, charitable
or educational organizations, authorized under the laws of the state, to own
and operate, for profit, any pool or billiard table or tables or electronic
game or games, as those terms are herein defined, within this city, except
where specified without having first obtained an appropriate license from the
City Secretary herein provided; which license shall at all times be displayed
in some conspicuous place within the licensed place of business.
   (B)   As provided by laws of the state, bona fide religious, charitable or
educational organizations, and those persons operating billiard tables or games
under authority of the religious, charitable or educational organizations, are
exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 5.2) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE FEES FOR POOL HALLS AND POOL TABLES.
   Every person operating a pool or billiard hall within the corporate limits
of the city shall pay an annual fee of $10 for the privilege of pursuing the
business and shall pay an additional fee of $5 for each and every pool table
used in pursuance of the business.
(1981 Code, § 5.3) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 ELECTRONIC GAMES; LICENSE FEES.
   The license fee for all electronic machines be fixed at $7.50 per annum or
fractional part thereof, payable on January 1 of each year, or on the day that
they may be installed during any year, and that the certificate issued
acknowledging receipt of the payment be not transferable from one machine to
another, or from one place of business to another.
(1981 Code, § 5.4)
§ 112.05 OPERATION WITHIN CERTAIN AREAS.
   No one, acting for himself or herself or for another person, shall operate
or maintain a pool hall, as that term is defined in this chapter, within 300
feet of any church or school.
(1981 Code, § 5.5) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 TERM OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be for one year and shall
be non-transferable.
(1981 Code, § 5.6)
§ 112.07 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The sale of alcoholic beverage or beverages in or on the premises licensed
hereunder is hereby prohibited. No person, firm, association of persons,
corporations and any other organizations authorized under the laws of the
state, licensed hereunder, shall knowingly permit the sale, use or consumption
of any kind of alcoholic beverage or beverages in or upon the premises for
which a license has been issued, as provided in this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 5.7) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council is hereby authorized and empowered to revoke or cancel the
license of any person, firm, association of persons, corporations and every
other organization authorized under the laws of the state, licensed to own and
operate a pool or billiard table or tables hereunder, after giving the licensee
ten days’ notice of a hearing and after conducting the hearing for the purpose
of determining whether the license should be revoked; provided, however, that
the power of cancellation or revocation shall be exercised only under the
following conditions:
   (A)   For the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   For knowingly permitting the sale, use or consumption of any alcoholic
beverage or beverages in or upon the premises licensed hereunder;
   (C)   For knowingly permitting the presence on the premises of a person or
persons under the influence of intoxicating liquor;
   (D)   For knowingly permitting disorderly conduct or immoral practices on
the premises; or
   (E)   For knowingly permitting the violation of the law or laws of the state
or of the municipal code of the city.
(1981 Code, § 5.8)
§ 112.09 INSPECTION; HEALTH OFFICER.
   The Mayor shall appoint or designate the person and/or persons to make
periodic inspections of the licensed premises, whose duty shall be to determine
compliance with the building provisions, the maintenance of toilets and other
sanitary facilities and compliance with the health, plumbing, sanitary and
other applicable laws of this city and of this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 5.9)
§ 112.10 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No pool hall or game room shall operate at any time other than the following
hours:
   (A)   Monday through Saturday, 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight; and
   (B)   Sunday, 1:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight.
(1981 Code, § 5.10)
§ 112.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall take effect on January 1, 1982.
(1981 Code, § 5.11)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association of persons, corporations or every other
organization licensed hereunder violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not more than
$200. Each and every violation will be considered a separate offense.
(1981 Code, § 5.12)
CHAPTER 113: FOOD HANDLING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Permit requirements
   
113.03   Examination and condemnation
   
113.04   Inspections
   
113.05   Sanitation requirements
   
113.06   Health certificates
   
113.07   Suspicion of infection
   
113.08   Enforcement
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EATING AND FOOD HANDLING ESTABLISHMENTS. Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria,
short order café, luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain and all
other eating or drinking establishments, permanent or temporary, as well as
food stores, meat markets, kitchens or other places in which food or drink is
prepared for sale elsewhere.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The City Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative.
(1981 Code, § 9.50)
§ 113.02 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an eating establishment in
the city who does not possess an unrevoked permit from the Health Officer, the
permit being obtained by applying to the City Secretary, and the paying of a $5
fee; the permit being signed by the Health Officer and the City Secretary; a
renewal of the permit to be obtained once each year.
(1981 Code, § 9.51) (Ord. passed 6-8-1982) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 EXAMINATION AND CONDEMNATION.
   Samples of food, drink and other substances may be taken and examined by the
Health Officer as often as may be necessary for the detection of
unwholesomeness or adulteration. The Health Officer may condemn and forbid the
sale of, or cause to be removed or be destroyed any food or drink which is
unwholesome or adulterated.
(1981 Code, § 9.52)
§ 113.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   At least once every two months, the Health Officer shall inspect every
eating and food handling establishment located within the city.
   (B)   In case the Health Officer discovers the violation of any item of
sanitation, he or she shall call the violation to the attention of the person
operating the eating establishment; he or she shall make a second inspection
after the lapse of the time as he or she deems necessary for the defect to be
remedied, and the second inspection shall be used to determine compliance with
the requirements of this chapter. Any violation of the same item of this
chapter on the second inspection shall call for immediate suspension of permit
and taking of further action.
   (C)   The person operating the eating and food handling establishment upon
request of the Health Officer shall permit copying any or all records of food
purchases.
(1981 Code, § 9.53)
§ 113.05 SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All eating and food handling establishments shall comply with all of the
following items of sanitation.
   (A)   The floors, walls and ceilings of all rooms in which food or drink is
stored, prepared or served or in which utensils are washed, shall be of
construction as to be easily cleaned, and shall be kept clean and in good
repair.
   (B)   When flies are prevalent, all openings into the outer air shall be
effectively screened and doors shall be self-closing, unless other effective
means are provided to prevent the entrance of flies.
   (C)   All rooms in which food or drink is stored, prepared or served, or in
which utensils are washed, shall be well lighted and ventilated.
   (D)   Every eating and food handling establishment shall be provided with
adequate and conveniently located toilet facilities for its employees,
conforming with this city code. In eating and food handling establishments
hereafter constructed, toilet rooms shall not open directly into any room in
which food, drink or utensils are handled or stored. The doors of all toilet
rooms shall be self-closing. Toilet rooms shall be kept in a clean condition,
in good repair and well lighted and ventilated. Hand washing signs shall be
posted in each toilet room used by employees.
   (E)   It is essential that running water under pressure shall be easily
accessible to all rooms in which food is prepared or utensils are washed, and
the water supply must be adequate and of a safe, sanitary quality.
   (F)   All employees shall keep their hands clean at all times, and adequate
and convenient hand-washing facilities shall be provided, including hot and
cold running water, soap and approved sanitary towels. The use of a common
towel is prohibited. No employee shall resume work after using the toilet
without first washing his or her hands. The use of tobacco in any form in rooms
where food is prepared is prohibited.
   (G)   All multi-use utensils and all show and display cases, counters,
shelves, tables, stoves, refrigerating equipment, sinks and other equipment or
utensils used in connection with the operation of an eating or food handling
establishment shall be so constructed as to be easily cleaned and shall be kept
in good repair and free from dirt and insects. All clothes worn and cloths used
by waiters, chefs and other employees shall be clean.
      (1)   The statutes of the state pertaining to sterilization of dishes and
utensils shall apply; immersed three minutes at 170°F in clear water, or two
minutes at 180°F, or two minutes in an approved chlorine rinse.
      (2)   No article, polish or other substance containing cyanide
preparation or other poisonous material shall be used for the cleaning or
polishing of utensils.
   (H)   All wastes shall be properly disposed of, and all garbage and trash
shall be kept in suitable receptacles, in a manner so as not to become a
nuisance.
   (I)   All readily perishable food and drink shall be kept at or below 50°F,
except when being prepared or served. Waste water from refrigeration equipment
shall be properly disposed of.
   (J)   All food and drink shall be clean, wholesome, free from spoilage and
so prepared as to be safe for human consumption and handled in a sanitary
manner. All milk, fluid milk products, ice cream and other frozen desserts
served shall be from an approved dispensing device. This requirement shall not
apply to cream which may be served from the original bottle or from a dispenser
approved for the service.
   (K)   All food and drink shall be stored, displayed and served as to be
protected from dust, flies, vermin, depreciation and pollution by rodents,
unnecessary handling, droplet infection, overhead leakage and other
contamination. No animals or fowls shall be kept or allowed in any room in
which food or drink is prepared or stored. All means necessary for the
elimination of flies, roaches and rodents shall be used.
   (L)   The premises of all eating and food handling establishments shall be
kept clean and free of litter or rubbish.
(1981 Code, § 9.54) (Ord. passed 12-8-1981) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 HEALTH CERTIFICATES.
   The present ordinances of the city pertaining to health certificates shall
apply as follows.
   (A)   All persons operating eating and food handling establishments and
their employees shall have periodic physical examinations, including Wasserman
blood tests at intervals of not more than 12 months or at the discretion of the
Health Officer.
   (B)   No person who is infected with any disease in a communicable form or
is a carrier of the disease shall work in eating and food handling
establishment, and no eating and food handling establishment shall employ any
person, or any person suspected of being affected with any disease in a
communicable form or of being a carrier of the disease. If the eating and food
handling establishment manager suspects that any employee has contracted any
disease in communicable form or has become a carrier of the disease, he or she
shall notify the Health Officer immediately. A placard containing this section
shall be posted in toilet rooms.
(1981 Code, § 9.55) (Ord. passed 12-8-1981) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 SUSPICION OF INFECTION.
   When suspicion arises as to the possibility of transmission of infection
from any eating and food handling establishment employee, the Health Officer is
authorized to require any and all of the following measures:
   (A)   The immediate exclusion of the employee from all eating and food
handling establishments;
   (B)   The immediate closing of the eating and food handling establishment
concerned until no further danger of disease outbreak exists in the opinion of
the Health Officer; and/or
   (C)   Adequate medical examination of the employee and his or her
associates, including lab- oratory examination.
(1981 Code, § 9.56) (Ord. passed 12-8-1981)
§ 113.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Health Officer in accordance with the
interpretations thereof contained in the latest edition of the U.S. Public
Health Service Code Regulating Eating and Drinking Establishments, a certified
copy of which shall be on file at the office of the City Secretary.
(1981 Code, § 9.57) (Ord. passed 12-8-1951)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not
more than $200 at the discretion of the court having jurisdiction. Each and
every violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
(1981 Code, § 9.58) (Ord. passed 12-8-1981)
CHAPTER 114: WRECKER BUSINESS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Vehicle disabilities and accidents covered
   
114.03   Certain emergencies expected
   
114.04   Pushing or towing
   
114.05   City employees shall not attempt to influence owners of vehicles
   
114.06   Wrecker prohibited at scene unless called; solicitation prohibited
   
114.07   Inspection certificates required for wreckers and tow trucks
   
114.08   Procedure for acquiring inspection certificate; wrecker rotation list;
fee
   
114.09   Qualifications, equipment, insurance and the like
   
114.10   Requirements for wrecker rotation list
   
114.11   Grounds for suspension or removal
   
114.12   Procedure used in wrecker selection
   
114.13   Storage; wrecker company responsibility
   
114.14   Fee regulations on police pull not involving accidents
   
114.15   Rules for extraordinary conditions; large vehicles
   
114.16   Cleanup responsibility
   
114.17   Non-resident wrecker companies
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCIDENT. An occurrence in the operation of a motor vehicle which results in
injury/damage to any person or property.
   AUTHORIZED WRECKER SERVICE. A service that adheres to all ordinances of the
city, and has current inspection certificates.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Police Chief for the City of Big Sandy, or his or her
designate.
   CITY. The City of Big Sandy, Texas.
   DISABLED. Any vehicle which has been rendered unsafe to be driven upon the
streets as the result of some occurrence other than a wreck, reasonably
requiring that the vehicle be removed by a wrecker.
   HEAVY DUTY WRECKER. A wrecker not less than two tons in size.
   LIGHT DUTY WRECKER. A wrecker not less than one ton in size.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled.
   OWNER’S REQUEST. When the operator or owner of a wrecked or disabled vehicle
has selected a wrecker company to remove his or her vehicle and/or has
authorized the Police Department to call that wrecker company.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT. The City of Big Sandy Police Department.
   POLICE PULL. When the Police Department has called a wrecker company from
the rotation list to remove a wrecked or disabled vehicle or to remove a
vehicle in a safe driving condition, when the driver is absent, in custody or
otherwise incapable of making authorization.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY COMMONLY USED BY THE PUBLIC. Includes supermarkets or
shopping center parking lots, parking areas provided by business establishments
for the convenience of their customers, clients or patrons, parking areas owned
and operated for the convenience of and commonly used by the public.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any property owned by a governmental entity.
   ROTATION. When the operator of a wrecked or disabled vehicle fails to
designate a specific wrecker operator to remove his or her vehicle and he or
she has authorized the Police Department to call a wrecker from the rotation
list.
   STREET. Any street, alley, avenue, lane, public place or highway within the
limits of the city.
   TOW TRUCK. A vehicle equipped with a lifting device and which is designed,
made or adapted to tow or carry other vehicles, but which does not meet the
minimum requirements for a wrecker. Vehicles which are commonly referred to as
“two-car haulers” or “three-car haulers” are included in this definition of TOW
TRUCK.
   VEHICLE. Any device, in, upon or by which any person or property is, or may
be, transported or drawn upon a street, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
   WRECKED. The status of any vehicle that has been damaged as the result of an
accident so as to reasonably require that the vehicle be removed by a wrecker.
   WRECKER BUSINESS. Any wrecker company that hauls, tows or in any way moves
vehicles by the use of a wrecker or tow truck
   WRECKER COMPANY.
      (1)   Any individual, corporation, partnership or association engaged in
the business of towing disabled and/or wrecked vehicles on public streets or
highways for compensation or with the expectation of compensation for the
towing, storage or repair of vehicles.
      (2)   The term WRECKER COMPANY includes the owner, operator employee or
agent of a towing company, but does not include cities, counties or other
political subdivisions of the state.
   WRECKER ROTATION LIST. The list of wrecker companies as described in §
114.08.
   WRECKER SELECTION. The selection process provided for in §
114.12.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.02 VEHICLE DISABILITIES AND ACCIDENTS COVERED.
   The prohibitions and requirements of this chapter shall apply to all vehicle
disabilities occurring on public property or private property commonly used by
the public, regardless of whether or not the final resting place of a vehicle
is upon the above described areas immediately after the accident or disability,
and to police pulls for vehicles improperly or illegally parked.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.03 CERTAIN EMERGENCIES EXPECTED.
   The prohibitions and requirements of this chapter shall not apply to any
person who necessarily must act immediately to prevent death or bodily injury
to any person involved in an accident.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.04 PUSHING OR TOWING.
   A vehicle may be pushed or towed by another vehicle only when it does not
reasonably require removal by a wrecker or tow truck, and only when it may be
done in a safe manner. Tow trucks may not be used to remove a wrecked vehicle
from the scene of an accident.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.05 CITY EMPLOYEES SHALL NOT ATTEMPT TO INFLUENCE OWNERS OF VEHICLES.
   No employee of the city shall recommend to any person, in any manner the
name of any repair, wrecker or towing business, nor shall any city employee
influence or attempt to influence in any manner the decision of any person in
choosing or selecting a repair, wrecker service or towing business.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.06 WRECKER PROHIBITED AT SCENE UNLESS CALLED; SOLICITATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall drive a wrecker or tow truck to or near the site of an
accident for the purpose of solicitation of the business within the corporate
limits of the city unless the person has been called to the site by the owner
of the vehicle, his or her authorized representative or by the Police
Department.
   (B)   Any wrecker company, when called as provided herein, shall notify the
Police Dispatcher before proceeding to the disabled vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall solicit in any manner directly or indirectly, at or
near the site of an accident involving motor vehicles in the city limits, any
business regarding wrecked or disabled vehicles regardless of whether the
solicitation is for the purpose of removing, repairing, wrecking, storing,
trading or purchasing the vehicle.
   (D)   The presence of any person engaged in the wrecker business at the site
of an accident shall be prima facie evidence of solicitation in violation of
this section, unless the person has been called to the location under the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.07 INSPECTION CERTIFICATES REQUIRED FOR WRECKERS AND TOW TRUCKS.
   (A)   No person shall engage in any wrecker business or operate a wrecker or
tow truck to move a vehicle within the city, unless a wrecker or tow truck
inspection certificate for the wrecker or tow truck has been issued by the
Chief of Police.
   (B)   The certificate shall be available for inspection by the Police
Department at any time.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.08 PROCEDURE FOR ACQUIRING INSPECTION CERTIFICATE; WRECKER ROTATION LIST;
FEE.
   (A)   (1)   Any wrecker company desiring to engage in the wrecker business
in the city shall annually apply in writing to the Chief of Police for an
inspection certificate for each wrecker or tow truck proposed to be operated.
      (2)   The application shall contain the name, address and telephone
number of the wrecker company, the number and types of wreckers and tow trucks
to be operated, the true owner of the company concerned, and a statement that
the applicant does or does not desire to appear on the wrecker rotation list.
   (B)   Every application, when filed, shall be sworn to by the applicant and
accompanied by payment of an annual inspection fee of $25 per wrecker or $10
per tow truck. No fee or payment shall be returnable.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.09 QUALIFICATIONS, EQUIPMENT, INSURANCE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall issue an inspection certificate for each
qualified wrecker or tow truck which shall be valid until December 31 of the
year in which the same was issued. No inspection certificate authorizing the
operation of a wrecker or tow truck shall be issued in the city unless the
following minimum requirements are met:
      (1)   Each wrecker shall be not less than one ton in size or equivalent,
and shall have a gross vehicle weight of not less than 10,000 pounds;
      (2)   Each wrecker shall be equipped with a lifting device, wrench-line
and boom, with a rated lifting capacity of not less than 8,000 pounds, single-
line capacity, with dual rear wheels;
      (3)   Each wrecker or tow truck shall carry as standard equipment towing
mechanisms, safety chains, a fire extinguisher and emergency lighting as
approved by the Police Department. Standard equipment for wreckers shall also
include a broom, shovel, bucket and a dolly;
      (4)   Wreckers which are qualified for the rotation list shall be
equipped with permanent or rotating beacons of red, blue or amber color. Police
radio communication of a type approved by the Chief of Police is optional; and
      (5)   Each tow truck which is designed to carry two or more vehicles
shall be built and designed in accordance with good engineering principles.
   (B)   Each owner of a wrecker must provide evidence of these minimum
insurance coverages at the time of application:
      (1)   Comprehension general automobile liability insurance covering the
operation of the applicant’s own business equipment or vehicles providing
coverage for bodily injuries in the minimum amount of $100,000 for property
damages;
      (2)   Each wrecker less than two tons in size must have a minimum of
$200,000 cargo insurance. Wreckers three tons in size or larger must have a
minimum of $400,000 cargo insurance; and
      (3)   Each policy mentioned in divisions (B)(1) and (2) above must
contain an endorsement providing for ten days’ notice to the city in the event
of any material change or cancellation of each policy, and shall name the city
as an additional insured while the wrecker company is performing a wrecker job
in the city.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.10 REQUIREMENTS FOR WRECKER ROTATION LIST.
   In order to quality for the wrecker rotation list, the following
requirements must be met.
   (A)   All personal and real ad valorem taxes due to the city by a wrecker
company must be paid in full to maintain its status on the wrecker rotation
list.
   (B)   The applicant shall have a minimum of one wrecker available for
service at all times.
   (C)   The applicant shall file a sworn statement that he or she has no
financial interest in any other wrecker service which is on the city’s wrecker
rotation list.
   (D)   The applicant must maintain a permanent office and phone service
within the city, plus a storage area within the city limits.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.11 GROUNDS FOR SUSPENSION OR REMOVAL.
   After an administrative hearing, the Chief of Police may suspend or remove
any wrecker company from the rotation list on any of the following grounds:
   (A)   If the place on the wrecker rotation list was procured by fraudulent
conduct, concealment of or false statement of a material fact concerning
applicant at the time of his or her making application;
   (B)   If the wrecker company violates the provisions of this chapter or any
other city ordinance or any state law regulating vehicular traffic;
   (C)   If the wrecker company fails to comply with the provisions of this
chapter regarding the provision of a storage area for wrecked or disabled
vehicles;
   (D)   If the wrecker company fails to protect vehicles in its care as a
result of a wrecker and/or a tow truck pull and fails to prevent parts,
accessories and personal belongings from being removed from the vehicle, except
as may be necessary to protect those items from theft;
   (E)   If the wrecker company fails to deliver a vehicle directly to the
location within the limits of the city as designated by the owner of the
vehicle or the Police Department; provided the vehicle can be legally delivered
to that location;
   (F)   If a wrecker company is repeatedly tardy in arriving after being
called to the scene of an accident by the Police Department for a rotation
pull, the Chief of Police shall give ten days’ notice of the time and place for
an administrative hearing concerning suspension, cancellation or removal as
provided above; and is hereby empowered to administer oaths to witnesses and to
conduct the hearing as otherwise provided by law;
   (G)   Fails to maintain wrecker and equipment in a reasonable workmanlike
manner.
      (1)   Findings of the Chief of Police and his or her written order of
suspension or removal from the rotation list shall terminate all authority and
permission theretofore granted.
      (2)   The period of suspension or removal from the rotation list shall
not exceed one year.
      (3)   Any order of the Chief of Police may be appealed to the City
Council in writing within ten days from the date of suspension or removal.
      (4)   The City Council shall have authority to reverse, affirm or modify
the order of the Chief of Police; provided, that in the event of affirmation of
the order the suspension shall commence upon the date of action of the City
Council.
   (H)   Charges will be based on reasonable and customary fees in the area,
with the City Council determining the fees, should a dispute come before the
Council.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.12 PROCEDURE USED IN WRECKER SELECTION.
   When a police officer investigating an accident determines that any vehicle
which has been involved in an accident should be removed by a wrecker, the
officer shall first determine whether or not the owner has already made
arrangements with an authorized wrecker service for the removal of his or her
vehicle. If not, the officer shall request the owner to either designate an
authorized company or allow a wrecker rotation list as follows.
   (A)   Request for wrecker. If the owner or operator selects a wrecker
company, the investigating officer shall notify the police dispatcher to call
the wrecker company. If the requested wrecker company is unable to promptly
respond, then a rotation wrecker will be called.
   (B)   Rotation wrecker.
      (1)   If the owner does not designate a wrecker company to be called, the
investigating officer shall notify the dispatcher to call the wrecker company
next in line on the wrecker rotation list, and furnish its name to the
investigating officer.
      (2)   A wrecker company called from the wrecker rotation list may
hereafter be referred to as a “rotation pull”. In that event, the investigating
officer shall notify the Policy Dispatcher who shall call the wrecker company
next up from the wrecker rotation list and dispatch it to the scene.
      (3)   The vehicle or vehicles to be removed shall be taken to the place
designated by the owner, or by the investigating police officer or to the
wrecker company’s own place of storage if no designation is made. If the
responding wrecker is unable to immediately provide a wrecker for each wrecked
vehicle at the scene, then the wrecker service next on the rotation list will
be called to respond.
      (4)   To effect the wrecker rotation list procedure, the Police
Department shall keep a master list of all wrecker companies which meet all the
requirements of this chapter, and have qualified to be on the wrecker rotation
list.
   (C)   All qualified wrecker companies shall be given a copy of the wrecker
rotation list.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.13 STORAGE; WRECKER COMPANY RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of each wrecker company to provide a
storage area for wrecked or disabled vehicles which are moved or towed as the
result of a police or rotation pull.
   (B)   The storage area shall be inspected annually to determine whether it
complies with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   A wrecker company shall not qualify for the rotation list, unless:
      (1)   The wrecker company has a storage area of adequate size that will
accommodate vehicles in a safe manner, within the city limits;
      (2)   Outside storage area, if not currently enclosed by a privacy fence
of at least five feet, shall be completely enclosed by a privacy fence of at
least six feet in height, with gate which is locked at all times when the
licensee, agent or employee is not at the storage lot; and
      (3)   Each storage area must be adequately lighted for nighttime release
of vehicles.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.14 FEE REGULATIONS ON POLICE PULL NOT INVOLVING ACCIDENTS.
   (A)   On a police pull for a vehicle that is in safe driving condition, and
for any reason has no owner or licensed operator present to drive the vehicle
from the site, the wrecker company called from the rotation list shall observe
a maximum daytime fee of $60, and a maximum evening fee of $75.
   (B)   In the event a police pull is made for a tow-away zone or traffic law
violator, the vehicle shall not be released to the owner or any other person
until authorization is granted by the Police Department.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.15 RULES FOR EXTRAORDINARY CONDITIONS; LARGE VEHICLES.
   (A)   If a large or heavy vehicle is wrecked or disabled and a wrecker of
ordinary lifting capacity cannot move the vehicle the following rules shall
govern, notwithstanding other provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   The rotation wrecker company which has been dispatched to the scene
shall call any wrecker company which meets the insurance and safety
requirements of this chapter, and which has wreckers of extraordinary lifting
capacity to the scene of the accident or disability for assistance and without
regard to the rotation list; and
      (2)   The charges rendered for services of wreckers of extraordinary
lifting capacity shall not exceed the usual and customary charges for like
services provided in the wrecker industry.
   (B)   If, in the opinion of city, fire or police officials, wrecked or
disabled vehicle or its cargo constitutes a hazard to the public, any wrecker
company called shall act at the direction of the city official.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.16 CLEANUP RESPONSIBILITY.
   Each wrecker company called to the site of an accident shall completely
remove all broken glass and debris, excluding truck or vehicle cargoes before
leaving the site.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.17 NON-RESIDENT WRECKER COMPANIES.
   The foregoing provisions shall not be construed to prohibit the
transportation by a non-resident wrecker company wrecked or disabled vehicle
from some point in the city other than the site of an original accident to some
point outside the city, nor shall it be construed to prohibit the
transportation within the city by a non-resident wrecker company of a wrecked
or disabled vehicle from a point outside the city limits to a destination
inside or outside the city limits.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any term of this chapter by any person, firm or corporation is
declared to be a misdemeanor, and upon adjudication of guilt, a fine not to
exceed $200 shall be assessed against the violator. Each continuing day of
violation shall be deemed a separate offense for which a separate fine may be
assessed.
(Ord. 9-12-95, passed 9-12-1995)
CHAPTER 115: GARAGE AND YARD SALES
Section
   
115.01   Definition
   
115.02   Limitations
   
115.03   Sign requirements
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE OR YARD SALE. The temporary retail use of residentially zoned
property consisting of the sale of four or more items acquired by the seller
for their ultimate use or consumption.
(Ord. 91499, passed 9-14-1999)
§ 115.02 LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Person(s) or family(s) shall not conduct garage or yard sales for more
than four calendar days in any 30-day period.
   (B)   Person(s) or family(s) shall not conduct more than three garage or
yard sales in any 12-month period.
(Ord. 91499, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.03 SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Garage or yard sale signs shall be limited to the following requirements:
signs shall not be illuminated; signs shall not exceed two square feet in area;
and signs shall be removed within 24 hours after the sale is concluded.
(Ord. 91499, passed 9-14-1999) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   For each sign that is not removed within 24 hours following the
conclusion of the sale, a fine of $25 shall be assessed.
(Ord. 91499, passed 9-14-1999)
CHAPTER 116: ITINERANT MERCHANTS AND VENDORS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Permit required; activity compliance
   
116.03   Mayoral powers
   
116.04   Non-profit status
   
116.05   Posting rule
   
116.06   Dates and times
   
116.07   Effective date
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who sells goods or merchandise in any manner other than
in an established retail or wholesale store and is not a solicitor as defined
below.
   SOLICITOR. A person who sells goods or merchandise by personally calling
upon residences in person or by phone.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007)
§ 116.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; ACTIVITY COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All peddlers and solicitors must receive a permit from the City
Secretary to conduct their activities within the city.
   (B)   The charge for a peddler or solicitor’s permit is on file in the City
Secretary’s office.
   (C)   The activities of all peddlers and solicitors shall comply with the
provisions of the zoning ordinances of the city.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.03 MAYORAL POWERS.
   The Mayor shall make all determinations regarding any definitions or
provisions of this chapter that are in dispute. Any person aggrieved by the
ruling of the Mayor may appeal to the City Council.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007)
§ 116.04 NON-PROFIT STATUS.
   There shall be no charge for a peddler or solicitor permit for a person or
organization selling for a non-profit cause, nor for a person or organization
selling for a special event which occurs for no longer than one day per year.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007)
§ 116.05 POSTING RULE.
   A copy of this chapter shall be posted in all facilities selling fireworks.
The same facilities shall also post a copy of this chapter, setting forth the
dates and times during which it is permitted to discharge fireworks in the
city.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007)
§ 116.06 DATES AND TIMES.
   (A)   The permitted dates and times for the discharging of fireworks inside
the city limits will be two days before New Year’s Day, July 4 and Christmas
Day, and two days after.
   (B)   Fireworks must cease at 10:00 p.m., with the exception of New Year’s
Day, July 4 and Christmas Day, when they must cease at 12:00 midnight.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007)
§ 116.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect from and after its publication one time in
the official publication of the city, which publication shall contain the
caption stating in summary the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall result in fines not to exceed $200.
(Ord. passed 7-17-2007)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   FIREARMS/WEAPONS
      
131.   INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
      
132.   MINORS; CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: FIREARMS/WEAPONS
Section
   
130.01   Firing certain guns
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 FIRING CERTAIN GUNS.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or
association to fire or shoot or cause to be fired or shot any firearm, rifle,
shotgun, automatic rifle, revolver pistol or any other weapon designed for the
purpose of firing or discharging a shell or cartridge, whether the shell or
cartridge is blank or live ammunition, at any place within the corporate limits
of the city, except for the protection of private property, and except peace
officers while in the performance of their official duties, or by authorized
city representatives in the engagement of their official duties. This section
shall not prohibit the firing of BB guns.
(1981 Code, § 9.30) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
130.01, or failing to observe any of the provisions hereof, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined in any sum not
more than $200, and each violation shall be a separate offense.
(1981 Code, § 9.31)
CHAPTER 131: INTOXICATING BEVERAGES
Section
   
131.01   Possession or consumption in public parks
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PARKS.
   (A)   The possession or consumption, by any person, of intoxicating
beverages while entering or inside any city park is unlawful.
   (B)   If any officer of the city, county or state sees any person violating
this section, he or she shall immediately seize the intoxicating beverage, and
hold same as evidence until the trial of the accused possessor or consumer, and
then dispose of same.
   (C)   The fact that this section is made to adequately safeguard the general
public welfare, health, peace and safety, creates an emergency, and requires
this section to become effective immediately upon its passage, and it is
accordingly so ordained.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1982) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating §
131.01 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be
fined not more than $200.
(Ord. passed 5-11-1982)
CHAPTER 132: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Application of chapter
   
132.02   Definitions
   
132.03   Offenses
   
132.04   Defenses
   
132.05   Enforcement
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   This chapter establishes curfew hours for minors within the corporate city
limits, and shall also apply to its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2006-0613, passed - -)
§ 132.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the city, or a designated
representative.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. any day except Friday or Saturday; and
      (2)   12:00 midnight to 6:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday.
   DIRECT ROUTE. The shortest path of travel through a public place to reach a
final destination without any detour or stop along the way.
   EMERGENCY. Includes, but is not limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an
automobile accident or any situation requiring immediate action to prevent
serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   HOLDING LOCATION. A place designated by the Chief of Police to which a minor
taken into custody for a violation of this chapter will be delivered to await
pickup by a parent or juvenile authorities.
   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
   OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term OPERATOR includes
the members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural or adoptive parent of another person;
      (2)   A court-appointed guardian of another person; or
      (3)   At least 21 years of age and authorized by a parent or court-
appointed guardian to have the care and custody of another person.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, highway, sidewalk, playground, park, plaza,
building or other place used by or open to the public.
   REMAIN. To:
      (1)   Linger or stay unnecessarily; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
(Ord. 2006-0613, passed - -)
§ 132.03 OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent of a minor commits an offense if he or she knowingly permits
or by insufficient control allows the minor to remain in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
   (C)   The owner, operator or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
(Ord. 2006-0613, passed - -) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04 DEFENSES.
   It is a defense to prosecution under this chapter that the minor was:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent and was using a
direct route;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity, including, but not limited to,
newspaper delivery, and was using a direct route;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence of a next door neighbor
if the neighbor did not complain to the police officer about the minor’s
presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school or religious activity or returning home
by a direct route from an official school or religious activity;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married, or had been married, or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2006-0613, passed - -)
§ 132.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A police officer, upon finding a minor in violation of the offenses
section above, shall ascertain the name and address of the minor and shall
inquire into the reasons for the minor’s being in a public place. If the police
officer reasonably believes that the minor has violated this chapter and that
no defenses apply, a citation may be issued to the minor; and the police
officer may order the minor to go promptly home by a direct route or may take
the minor into custody and deliver the minor to a holding location.
   (B)   When a minor is taken into custody under this section, the Police
Department shall immediately notify a parent to pick up the minor at the
holding location. After a parent arrives at a holding location and provides the
information required by the Chief of Police to file an incident report, the
minor shall be released into the custody of the parent. If a parent cannot be
located or fails to take charge of the minor, the police officer shall contact
a juvenile officer.
   (C)   If a minor is not taken into custody for a violation of this chapter,
the Police Department shall notify a parent of the minor that the minor has
violated this chapter, and may issue a citation to the minor’s parent if
reasonable grounds exist to believe that the parent has violated this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-0613, passed - -)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A minor may be prosecuted in Municipal Court for a violation of this
chapter. An individual adjudged guilty of violation of the ordinance shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   A parent of a minor who violated this chapter may be prosecuted in
Municipal Court. An individual adjudged guilty of violation of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (C)   The owner, operator or employee of an establishment who violated this
chapter may be prosecuted in Municipal Court. An individual adjudged guilty of
violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (D)   Any minor who violates this chapter three or more times within a 24-
month period is subject to appropriate action by a juvenile court in accordance
with Tex. Family Code, Ch. 51 and 52.
(Ord. 2006-0613, passed - -)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
      
151.   BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Minimum Housing Code
   
150.02   Creating Office of Housing Enforcing Official
   
150.03   Housing Board of Appeals
   
150.04   Duties of Housing Enforcing Official
   
150.05   Right of entry
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF MINIMUM HOUSING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council, that certain health and housing
standards known as the 2000 Edition of the International Building Code, of
which not less than three copies have been and are now filed in the office of
the City Secretary, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully
as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall
be controlling on all dwellings and premises within the corporate limits of the
city.
(1981 Code, § 9.1) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 150.02 CREATING OFFICE OF HOUSING ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Office of Housing Enforcing Official is hereby created.
   (B)   The Building Official shall be responsible for the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (C)   The Building Official shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to
confirmation of the City Council. His or her appointment shall continue during
good behavior and satisfactory service. He or she shall not be removed from
office, except for cause, after full opportunity has been given him or her to
be heard on specific charges.
(1981 Code, § 9.2) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 150.03 HOUSING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Board of Housing Appeals, which shall
consist of five members appointed by the Mayor, subject to confirmation to the
City Council.
   (B)   One member shall be appointed to serve one year, two members to serve
two years and two members to serve three years.
   (C)   This Board shall act by majority vote of the members present.
   (D)   The Board shall have the power and be required to hold public hearings
in deciding appeals where it is alleged there is an error in law or fact in any
order or decision of the Housing Enforcing Official in the enforcement of this
chapter.
(1981 Code, § 9.3) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 150.04 DUTIES OF HOUSING ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   It shall be the duty of the Housing Enforcing Official to enforce all laws
and provisions specified in the 2000 Edition of the International Building
Code.
(1981 Code, § 9.4) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 150.05 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Housing Enforcing Official, in the discharge of his or her official
duties, and upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any
building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
(1981 Code, § 9.5) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDINGS AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
Electrical Regulations
   
151.01   Adoption of Electrical Code
   
151.02   Electrical Inspector
   
151.03   Duties of Inspector
   
151.04   Permits
   
151.05   Inspection
   
151.06   Standards
   
151.07   Licensing of electricians
   
151.08   Bond requirement
   
151.09   Failure to comply
   
151.10   Authority to cut off service
   
151.11   License to individual
Plumbing Regulations
   
151.25   Adoption of Plumbing Code
   
151.26   Inspection and supervision
   
151.27   Applications and permits
   
151.28   Bond requirements
   
151.29   Street openings
   
151.30   Cross-connections; backflow
Building Regulations
   
151.40   Adoption of Building Code
   
151.41   Establishing Office of Building Official
   
151.42   Qualifications of Building Official
   
151.43   Duties of Building Official
   
151.44   Liability
   
151.45   Right of entry
   
151.46   Definitions
   
151.47   Establishing fire limits
   
151.48   Revised version of code
Building Permits
   
151.60   Permit requirement
 
   
151.99   Penalty
ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.01 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal and maintenance of
electric wiring and apparatus, including permits, and penalties that certain
electric code known as the 2000 Edition of the International Building Code,
save and except portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of
which not less than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of
the City Secretary, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully
as if set out at length herein, and from the date on which this subchapter
shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the
construction, alteration, maintenance or removal of all electric wiring and
apparatus within the corporate limits of the city.
(1981 Code, § 6.1) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.02 ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There is hereby created the office of Electrical Inspector, who shall
be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the confirmation of the City Council. The
Electrical Inspector shall have had at least two years experience as an
electrician, shall be of good moral character, shall be versed in the approved
methods of electrical construction for safety of life and property and the
National Electrical Code.
   (B)   He or she shall receive compensation as the Council may decide.
(1981 Code, § 6.2) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.03 DUTIES OF INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector, who for the purpose of this subchapter shall
be known as the City Electrician, and hereinafter referred to as such, shall
have the duty and is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to regulate and
determine the placing of electric wires or other appliances for electric
lights, heat or power in the city and to cause all the wires, appliances or
apparatus to be placed, constructed and guarded as not to cause fires or
accidents, endangering life or property, and to be constructed as to keep to a
minimum the loss of waste of electric current.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Electrician to enforce all provisions
of this subchapter, and is hereby granted the authority to enter all buildings
in the city in the performance of his or her duties between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m. daily, except that in an emergency and within the limits of
reason, the City Electrician may enter buildings for those purposes at other
than the designated hours.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Electrician to inspect and/or test
all electrical work and equipment or apparatus for compliance with the Code.
Whenever electric wiring, appliances or apparatus shall be defective or
hazardous through improper manufacture or improper or insufficient insulation
or for any other reason, he or she shall at once cause the removal of the
defect or defects, at the expense of the owners of the wiring, appliance or
apparatus.
(1981 Code, § 6.3) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.04 PERMITS.
   No installation, alteration or removal shall be made in/or of the wiring of
any building or structure for light, heat or power or to increase the load of
energy carried by the wires or equipment, nor shall any building or structure
be wired for electric lights, appliances, motors, apparatus or heating devices
nor alterations made thereto without a written permit therefor being first
obtained from the City Secretary by the person, firm or corporation having
direct charge of the installation.
(1981 Code, § 6.4) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.05 INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of the wiring, installation or alteration of any
building or structure for light, heat, power, appliance or apparatus, it shall
be the duty of the person, firm or corporation having direct charge of such to
notify the City Electrician who shall, as early as possible, inspect the
wiring, installation, appliance and apparatus and if installed, altered and
constructed in compliance with the permit and in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter, he or she shall execute a certificate of
satisfactory inspection, which shall contain the date of the inspection and the
result of his or her examination, but no certificate shall be issued unless the
electric wiring, motors, heating devices, appliances and apparatus be in strict
accord with the rules and requirements and the spirit of this subchapter, nor
shall current be turned on the installation, equipment, appliance, motors,
heating device and apparatus until the certificate be issued. The amount of fee
or charge to be made for the inspections and certificate to be fixed and
determined by the City Council.
(1981 Code, § 6.5) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.06 STANDARDS.
   All electrical construction, materials, appliances, motors, heating devices
and apparatus used in connection with electrical work and the operation of all
electrical apparatus within the city shall conform to the rules and
requirements of the National Electrical Code current when work is performed or
equipment and apparatus installed, however, the necessity, good service and the
results often require larger sizes of wire, more branch circuits and better
types of equipment than the minimum which is specified in the National
Electrical Code. Therefore, the City Electrician supervising the enforcement of
this code will have the responsibility and authority for making interpretations
of the rules, for deciding upon the approval of equipment, materials,
construction and for granting the special permission contemplated in a number
of the rules and the City Electrician, where necessary, shall follow the code
procedure for securing official interpretations of the code.
(1981 Code, § 6.6) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.07 LICENSING OF ELECTRICIANS.
   Any persons, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
electrical construction or of the installation of wiring and apparatus for
electric lights, appliances, heating or power in the city shall, before doing
so, obtain a license therefor, the fee for which shall be $10 per year, which
shall be paid into the City Treasury before the license shall become effective.
(1981 Code, § 6.7) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.08 BOND REQUIREMENT.
   Every person, firm or corporation doing electrical business in the city
shall execute and deliver to the city a bond with a surety bonding company in
the sum of $2,000, to indemnify the city or any citizen for any damage caused
by the failure of that person, firm or corporation doing the electrical work to
comply strictly with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1981 Code, § 6.8) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.09 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to correct any defect or
defects in his or her work or to meet the required standards after having been
given notice of the unfit condition by the City Electrician, within a
reasonable time, shall be refused any other permit until the defect or defects
have been corrected and shall be subject to revocation of license for continual
defective work or either upon conviction for violation of the provisions of
this subchapter.
(1981 Code, § 6.10) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.10 AUTHORITY TO CUT OFF SERVICE.
   Upon failure to comply with this subchapter, the City Electrician shall have
authority, after due notice, to cut out electric current in the locality
concerned.
(1981 Code, § 6.11) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.11 LICENSE TO INDIVIDUAL.
   Any individual desiring to perform his or her own electrical work personally
shall not be required to make the required bond or to obtain the required
license, but shall be required to obtain the regular permit for that particular
job. The work done by an individual must be done by him or her personally on
his or her own particular job and not be a way of performing a service to the
public generally.
(1981 Code, § 6.13) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
§ 151.25 ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   The provisions and regulations of the Plumbing Code, and amendments thereto,
are made a part of this subchapter by reference, three certified copies of
which shall be on file in the office of the City Secretary, and shall extend
over and govern the installation of all plumbing installed, altered or repaired
within the city, wherever water and/or sewage service originating from the
municipal water and/or sewer system is furnished.
(1981 Code, § 6.20) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.26 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   There is hereby created the position of plumbing inspector, or
inspectors, who shall be employed by the city.
   (B)   The plumbing inspector or inspectors shall have experience in plumbing
to the extent that it enables him or her to know when plumbing is installed
correctly.
   (C)   The plumbing inspector or inspectors shall not be directly connected
in any way with any person, firm, corporation, directly or indirectly engaged
in the business of plumbing, or plumbing suppliers.
   (D)   The inspector shall receive as full compensation for his or her
services, a salary designated by the City Council.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector or inspectors to
enforce all provisions of this subchapter, and the inspector or inspectors is
hereby granted the authority to enter all buildings within the corporate limits
of the city, when those buildings are connected, or to be connected, to the
municipal water and/or sewage system.
      (1)   The plumbing inspector shall prepare or cause to be prepared
suitable forms for applications, permits, inspection reports and other
materials.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector to inspect and test
all plumbing work for
compliance with this subchapter, and its adopted Plumbing Code, and to enforce
changing of the installations that does not meet the requirements.
      (3)   It further shall be his or her duty to see that all persons
installing or altering plumbing shall be qualified by state law.
(1981 Code, § 6.21) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.27 APPLICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Before beginning any work in the city, the person installing or
altering same, shall apply to the plumbing inspector or other designated
official and obtain a permit to do the work.
   (B)   Only those persons legally authorized to do plumbing may be issued
permits.
   (C)   A permit may be issued to a home owner to install or alter plumbing in
a single-family residence; provided the home owner does the work himself or
herself, and that the building is owned and occupied by the owner as his or her
home.
   (D)   All the work shall meet the code requirements.
   (E)   All applications for permits shall be made on suitable forms provided.
The application shall be accompanied by fees in accordance with the following
schedule:
Plumbing rough-in inspections                                       $1.50
Each plumbing fixture and/or water and/or waste discharging devices $0.75
New or reconstructed sewer connection                               $2
Each septic tank system                                             $2
Hot water heater, new or replaced                                   $0.75
Water service or connection                                         $1
For final certificate of inspector                                  $1
An additional fee of $5 shall be charged for each additional trip on the part
of the plumbing inspector, caused by the negligence of the plumber of not
being ready for inspection or a return for inspection of a corrected
installation
 
(1981 Code, § 6.22) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.28 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every master plumber doing business in the city, shall execute and
deliver to the city a bond with a surety bonding company in the sum of $1,000
to indemnify the city or any citizen for any damage caused by the failure of
the master plumber to comply strictly with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   No plumbing permit shall be issued to any master plumber unless this
bond has been delivered to the city and is in full force and effect.
(1981 Code, § 6.23) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.29 STREET OPENINGS.
   (A)   All openings made in the public streets or alleys to install plumbing
must be made as carefully as possible and all materials excavated from the
trenches shall be removed or placed where the least inconvenience to the public
will be caused.
   (B)   All openings must be replaced in precisely the same condition as
before the excavation started and all rubbish and materials must be removed at
once, leaving the street or sidewalks clean and in perfect repair.
   (C)   (1)   All openings shall be marked with sufficient barriers.
      (2)   Flares or red lamps shall be maintained around the opening at night
and all other precautions shall be taken by the plumber or excavator to protect
the public from damage to person or property.
(1981 Code, § 6.24) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.30 CROSS-CONNECTIONS; BACK FLOW.
   (A)   The City Water Department and the city plumbing inspector, be and they
are hereby authorized to discontinue or cause to be discontinued all water
service or services to any and all premises, lands, buildings or structures
where it is found that an immediate hazard exists to the purity or potability
of the city water supply.
   (B)   The City Water Department, and the city plumbing inspector, are hereby
authorized and directed to take steps as necessary to determine all potential
hazards to the purity or potability of the city water supply which exist.
   (C)   Upon determining the potential hazards, it shall be the duty of the
Department and the inspector to immediately cause notice to go to the owner or
other person responsible for the premises, specifying the hazards, and
notifying the person that in the event that the hazard is not corrected within
30 days from the date of the notice, all water services shall be discontinued
thereafter until the requirements of this code have been complied with.
(1981 Code, § 6.25) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
BUILDING REGULATIONS
§ 151.40 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing rules
and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, including permits and penalties, that certain building code known
as the 2000 Edition of the International Building Code, save and except
portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or amended, of which not less
than three copies have been and now are filed in the office of the Secretary of
the city, and the same are hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the
construction of all buildings and structures therein contained within the
corporate limits of the city.
(1981 Code, § 6.30) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.41 ESTABLISHING OFFICE OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The Office of Building Official is hereby created, and the executive
official in charge shall be known as the Building Official.
   (B)   The Building Official shall be appointed by City Council. His or her
appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service. He or
she shall not be removed from office except for cause after full opportunity
has been given him or her to be heard on specific charges.
   (C)   During temporary absence or disability of the Building Official the
appointing authority shall designate an acting Building Official.
(1981 Code, § 6.31) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.42 QUALIFICATIONS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   He or she shall be in good health, physically capable of making the
necessary examinations and inspections. He or she shall not have any interest
whatever, directly or indirectly, in the sale or manufacture of any material,
process or device entering into or used in or in connection with building
construction, alterations, removal and demolition.
(1981 Code, § 6.32) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.43 DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   He or she shall receive applications required by this code, issue
permits and furnish the prescribed certificates.
   (B)   He or she shall examine the premises for which permits have been
issued and shall make necessary inspections to see that the provisions of law
are complied with and that construction is prosecuted safely.
   (C)   He or she shall enforce all provisions of the Building Code.
   (D)   He or she shall, when requested by proper authority, or when the
public interest so requires, make investigations in connection with matters
referred to in the Building Code, and render written reports on the same.
   (E)   To enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe
conditions, to secure the necessary safeguards during construction, or to
require adequate exit facilities in buildings and structures, he or she shall
issue notices or orders as may be necessary.
   (F)   Inspections required under the provisions of the Building Code shall
be made by the Building Official or his or her duly appointed assistant.
   (G)   The Building Official may accept reports of inspectors of recognized
inspection services, after investigation of their qualifications and
reliability.
   (H)   No certificate called for by any provision of the Building Code shall
be issued on the reports, unless the same are in writing and certified to by a
responsible officer of the service.
   (I)   The Building Official shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, and of certificates issued, or inspections
made, of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued.
   (J)   All records shall be open to public inspection for good and sufficient
reasons at the stated office hours, but shall not be removed from the office of
the Building Official without his or her written consent.
   (K)   The Building Official shall make written reports to his or her
immediate superior once each month, or more often if requested, including
statements of permits and certificates issued and orders promulgated.
(1981 Code, § 6.33) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.44 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any officer or employee, or member of the Board of Adjustments and
Appeals, charged with the enforcement of this code, acting for the city in the
discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself
liable personally, and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties.
   (B)   Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of the act
performed by him or her in the enforcement of any provision of this code shall
be defended by the City Attorney until the final termination of the
proceedings.
(1981 Code, § 6.34) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.45 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Official, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and
upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building,
structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
(1981 Code, § 6.35) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.46 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The Attorney for the City of Big Sandy, Texas.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Big Sandy.
(1981 Code, § 6.36) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.47 ESTABLISHING FIRE LIMITS.
   The fire limits of the city are hereby established as follows: beginning at
the northeast corner of Block 48, thence west along Broadway Street to the
northwest corner of Block 47, thence south along Meason Street to the southwest
corner of Block 45, thence east along the Texas and Pacific Railroad right- of-
way, to the southeast corner of Block 44, thence north along North Street to
the point of beginning.
(1981 Code, § 6.37) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
§ 151.48 REVISED VERSION OF CODE.
   The Code may be amended and changed from 2000 Edition of the International
Building Code.
(1981 Code, § 6.38) (Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
BUILDING PERMITS
§ 151.60 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, construct or erect any
building upon any land within the city limits, without first having obtained a
permit from the city for the purpose of building, constructing and erecting the
building upon a designated lot or tract of land, and paying to the city the sum
of $3.50 for the issuance of the permit, and the city its agents and
representatives, are hereby authorized to deny the issuance of the permit as
well as authorized and empowered to issue the same upon the terms and
conditions expressly provided in the permit.
(1981 Code, § 6.40) (Ord. passed 2-21-1966) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of §§
151.01 through
151.11 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $200, together with the
costs of the prosecution. Each day during which violation continues shall be a
separate offense.
(1981 Code, § 6.12)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of §§
151.25 through
151.30 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $200, together with the cost
of the prosecution. Each day during which violation continues shall be a
separate offense.
(1981 Code, § 6.26)
   (D)   Any person violating any of the terms of §
151.60 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than
$200 for each day of the violation.
(1981 Code, § 6.41)
(Ord. passed 2-21-1966; Ord. passed 8-24-1967)
CHAPTER 152: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose of regulations
   
152.02   Copy available from City Secretary
   
152.03   Enforcement
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is intended to regulate and restrict the height, number
of stories and size of buildings and other structures; size of yards and other
open spaces; density of population; and location and use of buildings,
structures and land for trade, industry, residence or other purposes; and for
those purposes, to divide the municipality into districts of a number, shape
and area as may be best suited to carry out these regulations, and within those
districts, to regulate and redistrict the erection, construction,
reconstruction, alteration, repair or use of buildings, structures and land;
and to provide for the administration of those regulations; and to prescribe
penalties for the violation of the provisions hereof; and to provide for the
enforcement hereof; and declaring an emergency.
   (B)   In the passage of this chapter, the City Council deems it necessary in
order to promote health and the general welfare; to provide adequate light and
air; to prevent the overcrowding of land; to facilitate the adequate provision
of transportation, water, schools, parks and other public requirements; and to
conserve the value of buildings and encourage the most appropriate use of land
in accordance with a Comprehensive Plan.
(1981 Code, § 6.50) (Ord. passed 7-10-1972)
§ 152.02 COPY AVAILABLE FROM CITY SECRETARY.
   A complete text of the regulations are on file with the City Secretary.
(1981 Code, § 6.51) (Ord. passed 7-10-1972)
§ 152.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce this chapter.
(1981 Code, § 6.52) (Ord. passed 7-10-1972)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more than $200 for each offense.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   In case any building or structure is erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building,
structure or land is used in violation of this chapter, the proper authorities
of the city, in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent the unlawful erection, maintenance or use, to
restrain, correct or abate the violation, to prevent the occupancy of the
building, structure or land or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business or
use in or about the premises.
(1981 Code, § 6.52) (Ord. passed 7-10-1972)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   LAND USAGE
      
III.   AGREEMENTS/CONTRACTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Fixing rentals to be paid by telephone, electric, gas and
-        10-6-1941   other utility companies; rules for construction in
                     franchise-related projects
                     Grants to Southwestern Electric Power Company, for a
-        7-22-1964   period of 30 years, the right to sell electric energy in
                     the city
-        2-2-1965    Grants to United Gas Corporation a franchise to construct,
                     maintain and the like, pipes, meters and the like
-        7-6-1982    Agreement that the Continental Telephone Company of Texas
                     will continue to maintain poles, wires and the like
                    
 
TABLE II: LAND USAGE
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        5-11-1982   Moves a section of Pearl Street to B Residence District
-        5-11-1982   Rezones property from A to E Business District
-        9-8-1987    Declares a portion of Beck Avenue an abandoned street
3-13-90A 3-13-1990   Annexes property in the John Carson Survey
3-13-90B 3-13-1990   Annexes land beginning at a steel stake on the NBL of the
                     right-of-way of Highway 155
                     Prohibits well drilling beginning at a point in the middle
-        8-10-2010   of the street intersection of South Tyler Street and West
                     T & P Avenue
                    
 
 
TABLE III: AGREEMENTS/CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        9-11-1990   Agreement between the city and the East Texas Council of
                     Governments
                     Authorizes the initiation of participation in a rate
11-10-94 11-10-1994  proceeding to reduce the telephone rates of a GTE
                     operating company
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Statutes
References to 1981 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS STATUTES
 
Texas Family Code
Statutory Cite Code Section
Chapter 51     132.99
Chapter 52     132.99
               
 
 
Texas Government Code
Statutory Cite  Code Section
418.001 et seq. 32.01,
                32.02
551.001 et seq. 33.31
                
 
 
Texas Health and Safety Code
Statutory Cite  Code Section
342.005         93.20
342.006         93.20
342.007         93.20
826.001 et seq. 90.12
                
 
 
Texas Local Government Code
Statutory Cite  Code Section
Chapter 53      10.01
201.001 et seq. 33.17 through
                33.19
211.007         31.38
362.001         31.50
                
 
 
Texas Transportation Code
Statutory Cite          Code Section
543.111 through 543.116 34.02
543.115                 34.02
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1981 CODE
1981 Code Section 2012 Code Section
1981 Code Section 2012 Code Section
1.3               10.05
2.1               30.01
2.2               30.02
2.3               30.03
2.4               30.04
2.5               30.05
2.6               30.06
2.7               30.07
2.8               30.08
2.9               30.09
2.10              30.10
2.20              31.01
2.21              31.02
2.22              31.03
3.4               111.99
3.10              111.02
4.1               90.01
4.2               90.02
4.3               90.03
4.4               90.04
4.5               90.05
4.5.1             90.06
4.6               90.07
4.7               90.08
4.8               90.09
4.9               90.10
4.10              90.11
4.11              90.99
4.12              90.25,
                  90.26
4.13              90.99
4.14              90.27
4.21              90.40
4.22              90.99
4.23              90.41
5.1               112.01
5.2               112.02
5.3               112.03
5.4               112.04
5.5               112.05
5.6               112.06
5.7               112.07
5.8               112.08
5.9               112.09
5.10              112.10
5.11              112.11
5.12              112.99
6.1               151.01
6.2               151.02
6.3               151.03
6.4               151.04
6.5               151.05
6.6               151.06
6.7               151.07
6.8               151.08
6.10              151.09
6.11              151.10
6.12              151.99
6.13              151.11
6.20              151.25
6.21              151.26
6.22              151.27
6.23              151.28
6.24              151.29
6.25              151.30
6.26              151.99
6.30              151.40
6.31              151.41
6.32              151.42
6.33              151.43
6.34              151.44
6.35              151.45
6.36              151.46
6.37              151.47
6.38              151.48
6.40              151.60
6.41              151.99
6.50              152.01
6.51              152.02
6.52              152.03,
                  152.99
6.60              94.01
6.61              94.99
7.1               90.12,
                  91.01
7.2               91.02
7.3               91.03
7.4               91.04
7.5               91.05
7.6               91.06
7.7               91.07
7.8               91.08
7.9               91.09
7.10              91.10
7.11              91.11
7.12              91.12
7.13              91.13
7.20              91.25
7.21              91.26
7.22              91.27
7.23              91.28
7.24              91.29
7.25              91.30
7.26              91.99
7.30              91.40
9.1               150.01
9.2               150.02
9.3               150.03
9.4               150.04
9.5               150.05
9.30              130.01
9.31              130.99
9.40              93.01
9.41              93.02
9.42              93.03
9.43              93.04
9.44              93.99
9.50              113.01
9.51              113.02
9.52              113.03
9.53              113.04
9.54              113.05
9.55              113.06
9.56              113.07
9.57              113.08
9.58              113.99
11.1              31.15
11.2              31.16
11.3              31.17
11.4              31.18
11.5              31.19
11.10             31.30
11.11             31.31
11.12             31.32
11.13             31.33
11.14             31.34
11.15             31.35
11.16             31.36
11.17             31.37
11.18             31.38
12.1              33.30
12.2              33.31
12.3              33.32
12.4              33.33
12.10             33.45
12.11             33.46
12.12             33.47
12.13             33.48
12.20             33.01
13.1              34.15
13.2              34.16
13.3              34.17
13.20             34.01
14.1              70.99
14.2              70.99
14.3              70.99
14.4              70.99
14.5              70.99
14.6              70.99
14.7              70.99
14.8              70.99
14.10             70.99
14.11             70.99
14.12             70.99
14.13             70.99
14.14             70.99
14.15             70.99
14.16             70.99
14.20             70.01
14.21             70.02
14.22             70.03
14.23             70.04
14.24             70.99
14.40             94.15
14.41             94.99
14.50             94.25
14.51             94.26
14.52             94.27
14.53             94.99
15.20             110.01
15.21             110.02
15.22             110.03
15.23             110.04
15.24             110.05
15.25             110.06
15.26             110.99
15.27             110.99
15.30             110.20
15.31             110.21
15.32             110.22
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
–      11-10-1992  31.50
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
10-10-89   - -         50.01,
                       50.99
                       92.01 through
2004-08101 - -         92.04,
                       92.99
                       132.01 through
2006-0613  - -         132.05,
                       132.99
–        12-9-1935   91.40
                       110.01 through
–        10-6-1940   110.06,
                       110.99
–        10-6-1941   TSO, Table I
–        12-8-1951   113.08
–        8-4-1952    110.21,
                       110.22
–        6-29-1953   Ch. 71, Sch. II
–        7-22-1964   TSO, Table I
–        2-2-1965    TSO, Table I
–        4-13-1965   94.15,
                       94.99
–        2-21-1966   151.60,
                       151.99
–        5-8-1967    Ch. 71, Sch. I
–        8-24-1967   91.25 through
                       91.30
–        8-24-1967   150.01 through
                       150.05
                       151.01 through
                       151.11,
                       151.25 through
–        8-24-1967   151.30,
                       151.40 through
                       151.48,
                       151.99
–        6-7-1971    111.02
                       94.25 through
–        9-1-1971    94.27,
                       94.99
–        6-12-1972   31.30 through
                       31.38
                       152.01 through
–        7-10-1972   152.03,
                       152.99
–        10-14-1975  31.15 through
                       31.19
–        4-12-1977   Ch. 71, Sch. I
–        12-13-1977  110.20
–        12-22-1978  Ch. 71, Sch. I
                       113.05 through
–        12-8-1981   113.07,
                       113.99
–        5-11-1982   131.01,
                       131.99
–        5-11-1982   TSO, Table II
–        5-11-1982   TSO, Table II
–        6-8-1982    113.02
–        7-6-1982    TSO, Table I
–        9-8-1987    TSO, Table II
–        7-12-1988   34.02
                       32.01 through
–        12-13-1988  32.09,
                       32.99
3-13-90A   3-13-1990   TSO, Table II
3-13-90B   3-13-1990   TSO, Table II
–        9-11-1990   TSO, Table III
                       93.15 through
5-14-91    4-14-1991   93.22,
                       93.99
11-10-94   11-10-1994  TSO, Table III
–        1- -1995    91.14
                       114.01 through
9-12-95    9-12-1995   114.17,
                       114.99
–        12-12-1995  Ch. 71, Sch. I
                       111.15 through
42297      4-22-1997   111.17,
                       111.99
–        2-10-1998   33.15 through
                       33.19
                       115.01 through
91499      9-14-1999   115.03,
                       115.99
–        7-11-2000   Ch. 71, Sch. I
–        1-9-2001    Ch. 71, Sch. I
2003-3     2-11-2003   94.40
22607      2-26-2007   TSO, Table II
                       116.01 through
–        7-17-2007   116.07,
                       116.99
–        8-10-2010   TSO, Table II
                       51.01 through
3-13-12    3-20-2012   51.05,
                       51.99
                      
 
