CITY OF CANTON, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2020-18, passed 9-1-2020
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street  *  Suite 310  *  Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO.  2009-13
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CANTON, TEXAS,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF CANTON DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF
ORDINANCES; PROVIDING FOR PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH SUCH ORDINANCES;
PROVIDING A SEVERABILITY CLAUSE; REPEALING ALL ORDINANCES IN CONFLICT
THEREWITH; AND PROVIDING FOR AN EFFECTIVE DATE.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Canton are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the city and for the proper conduct of its affairs: and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Texas empower and
authorize the City of Canton to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the City Council of the City of Canton has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of Canton
of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book
form; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CANTON, TEXAS
THAT:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Canton as revised, amended,
restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Canton."
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
         Title 1:     General Provisions
         Title 3:      Administration
         Title 5:      Public Works
         Title 7:      Traffic Code
         Title 9:      General Regulations
         Title 11:   Business Regulations
         Title 13:   General Offenses
         Title 15:   Land Usage
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Council of the City of Canton, and the City Secretary
is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in
the Office of the City Secretary.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect, and such Code shall
be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the ordinance and all
provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein contained and of the
date of passage, and that the same is properly signed, attested, recorded, and
approved and that any public hearings and notices thereof as required by law
have been given.
Section 6.   If for any reason any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph,
section, or part of this ordinance, or application thereof to any person, firm,
corporation, public agency or circumstance, shall for any reason, be adjudged
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, said
judgment shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder of this ordinance
and the application of such provisions to other persons, firms, corporations,
public agencies, or circumstances, but shall be continued in its operation to
the provisions, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof directly
involved in the controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and
to the person, firm, corporation, public agency, or circumstances involved. It
is hereby declared to be the legislative intent of the City Council that this
ordinance would have been adopted had such unconstitutional or invalid
provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof not be
included.
PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 23rd DAY OF APRIL, 2009.
                                       William R. Wilson /s/             
                                       WILLIAM R. WILSON, Mayor
Attest:
Julie Seymore /s/                       
JULIE SEYMORE, City Secretary
ORDINANCE NO. 2011-18
      AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF CANTON, TEXAS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Canton,
Texas, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of this
City; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the City of Canton that this ordinance take
effect at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF CANTON,
TEXAS:
Section 1. That the first supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Canton as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2. Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Canton City Council, and the City Secretary of the
City of Canton is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into
the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the City
Secretary.
Section 3. This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for
the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare of
the people of the City of Canton, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Council of the City of Canton, Texas, on this
15th day of November, 2011.
                                       Cary S. Hilliard /s/                   
       
                                       Cary S. Hilliard, Mayor
ATTEST:
Julie H. Seymore /s/                       
Julie H. Seymore, City Secretary
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
   
10.20   Enforcement of city ordinances
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Canton, Texas, shall
be designated as the Code of Canton and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code,
Ch. 53
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Canton, Texas.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY.  Van Zandt County, Texas.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   ANDorOR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including but not limited to the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All such ordinances mentioned in division (A) are hereby recognized as
continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length
herein.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:  (Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, §§ 552.001 et
seq.
§ 10.19  ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.20  ENFORCEMENT OF CITY ORDINANCES.
   The ordinances of the City of Canton, Texas, shall be enforced by Police
Officers, Parking Enforcement Officers, Code Enforcement Officers, Animal
Control Officers, Building Officials, Building Inspectors, Health Inspectors,
and the Fire Marshal of the City of Canton, Texas, and each shall have the
authority to issue citations for any violations.
(Ord. 2007-18, passed 6-22-2007)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any such ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal
ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning and public health and sanitation;
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $2,000, if a motor vehicle is used in illegal
dumping or an offense under the law or city ordinance violated by the illegal
dumping; or
      (3)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases; provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. In the event that any such violation is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, the nuisance may be
summarily abated by the City Manager or the Chief of Police or their assigns.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY; EMERGENCIES
      
33.   FEES AND FINANCE
      
34.   MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Administration
   
30.01   Rewarding of persons who are instrumental in bringing about the arrest
and conviction of persons guilty of the crime of arson
   
30.02   Identity Theft Program Policy
Municipal Records
   
30.20   Definition
   
30.21   Additional definitions
   
30.22   Records declared public property
   
30.23   Policy
   
30.24   Designation of Records Management Officer
   
30.25   Records management plan to be developed; approval of plan; authority
   
30.26   Duties of Records Management Officer
   
30.27   Duties and responsibilities of department heads
   
30.28   Records control schedules prepared by the State Library and Archives
Commission to be adopted and maintained
   
30.29   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of records
under schedule
   
30.30   Destruction of unscheduled records
GENERAL ADMINISTRATION
§ 30.01  REWARDING OF PERSONS WHO ARE INSTRUMENTAL IN BRINGING ABOUT THE ARREST
AND CONVICTION OF PERSONS GUILTY OF THE CRIME OF ARSON.
   (A)   The Mayor of the City of Canton is hereby required, authorized and
empowered to offer a reward of not less than $100 payable to the person or
persons who shall be responsible for the arrest and conviction of any person
committing in the city the crime of arson as the same is now defined by the
penal code of the State of Texas.
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor shall be informed that any fire occurring in the
city was of an incendiary origin, he or she shall call for a report on the same
by the City Fire Marshal, and if the Marshal shall report that the fire was
caused by the commission of the crime of arson, it shall become the duty of the
Mayor to offer the reward above prescribed, which reward shall be in the form
of a proclamation  duly issued by the Mayor under his or her official signature
and attested by the seal of the city, and which shall be posted up in
conspicuous places, one of which shall be at the City Hall of the city in
accordance with the regulations of the State Fire Insurance Department. Upon
information being given by any person who shall cause the arrest and conviction
of the persons so guilty of a specific crime of arson for which the reward
shall be offered, and after the final conviction of those person or persons,
the person so giving the information shall be entitled to receive from the city
the reward.
(Ord. passed 5-13-1952)
§ 30.02  IDENTITY THEFT PROGRAM POLICY.
   The Identity Theft Program Policy that is in compliance with federal law and
is attached to Resolution 2008-18 as Exhibit A is hereby adopted by the city
and incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Res. 2008-18, passed 10-21-2008)
MUNICIPAL RECORDS
§ 30.20  DEFINITION.
   All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs, sound or video
recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media or other information
recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and regardless
of whether public access to them is open or restricted under the laws of the
state, created or received by the City of Canton or any of its officers or
employees pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business are hereby
declared to be the records of the City of Canton and shall be created,
maintained and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or
procedures authorized by it and in no other manner.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 30.21  ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD.  The officer who by ordinance or administrative policy is
in charge of an office of the City of Canton that creates or receives records.
   ESSENTIAL RECORD.  Any record of the City of Canton necessary to the
resumption or continuation of its operations in an emergency or disaster, to
the re-creation of its legal and financial status, or to the protection and
fulfillment of obligations to the people of the state.
   PERMANENT RECORD. Any record of the City of Canton for which the retention
period on a records control schedule is given as permanent.
   RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE.  A document prepared by the state library and
archives commission listing the records maintained by the city, their retention
periods, and other records disposition information that the records management
program may require, and adopted by the City of Canton.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT.  The application of management techniques to the
creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation, and disposal of records
for the purposes of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of
recordkeeping. The term includes the adoption of records control schedules, the
management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports,
and correspondence, and the management of micrographics and electronic and
other records storage systems.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.  The person designated in §
30.24 below.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN.  The plan developed under §
30.25 below.
   RETENTION PERIOD.  The minimum time that must pass after the creation,
recording or receipt of a record, or the fulfillment of certain actions
associated with a record, before it is eligible for destruction.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 30.22  RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All municipal records as defined in §
30.20 above are hereby declared to be the property of the City of Canton. No
municipal official or employee has, by virtue of his or her position, any
personal or property right to the records even though he or she may have
developed or compiled them. The unauthorized destruction, removal from files,
or use of the records is prohibited.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 30.23  POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the City of Canton to provide for
efficient, economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use and disposition of all municipal records through
a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for their management from
creation to ultimate disposition, consistent with the requirements of the Texas
Local Government Records Act and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 30.24  DESIGNATION OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
    The City Secretary, and successive holders of said office, shall serve as
Records Management Officer for the City of Canton, excluding police records
from the Canton Police Department. The Chief of Police, and successive holders
of said office, shall serve as Records Management Officer for the City of
Canton Police Department’s police records, excluding City files of a general
nature, such as personnel records. As provided by state law, each successive
holder of the office shall file his or her name with the director and librarian
of the Texas State Library within 30 days of the initial designation or of
taking up the office, as applicable.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 30.25  RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL OF PLAN; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer shall develop a records management plan
for the City of Canton for submission to the City Council. The plan must
contain policies and procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the
efficiency of recordkeeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the
municipality, and to properly preserve those records of the municipality that
are of historical value. The plan must be designed to enable the Records
Management Officer to carry out his or her duties prescribed by state law and
this subchapter effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the City Council, the records management plan shall
be binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions,
bureaus, boards, committees or similar entities of the City of Canton and
records shall be created, maintained, stored, microfilmed or disposed of in
accordance with the plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities or
recordkeeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department
head or the records in the department head’s care from the application of this
subchapter and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used
by the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management program of the City of Canton.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 30.26  DUTIES OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, the Records
Management Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
   (B)   Plan, formulate and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards and procedures;
   (C)   In cooperation with department heads identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each municipal office and department to ensure
maximum availability of the records in order to re-establish operations quickly
and with minimum disruption and expense;
   (D)   Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the city;
   (E)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for
recordkeeping supplies;
   (F)   Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform
filing system and a forms design and control system for the City of Canton;
   (G)   Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued by
the Texas State Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management program and the municipality’s records control schedules are in
compliance with state regulations;
   (H)   Disseminate to the City Council and department heads information
concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government
records;
   (I)   Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming, destruction
or other disposition of the records of the City of Canton are carried out in
accordance with the policies and procedures of the records management program
and the requirements of state law;
   (J)   Maintain records on the volume of records destroyed under approved
records control schedules or through records destruction authorization
requests, the volume of records microfilmed or stored electronically, and the
estimated cost and space savings as the result of such disposal or disposition;
   (K)   Report annually to the City Council on the implementation of the
records management plan in each department of the City of Canton, including
summaries of the statistical and fiscal data compiled under division (J) above;
and
   (L)   Bring to the attention of the City Council non-compliance by
department heads or other municipal personnel with the policies and procedures
of the records management program or the Local Government Records Act, Tex.
Loc. Gov’t Code, §§ 201.001 et seq.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 30.27  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this chapter, department heads
shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with the Records Management Officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the City of Canton for the efficient and
economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of this
subchapter;
   (B)   Adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs and duties for which the department head and his or her
staff are responsible; and
   (C)   Maintain the records in his or her care and carry out their
preservation, microfilming, destruction or other disposition only in accordance
with the policies and procedures of the records management program of the City
of Canton and the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 30.28  RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES PREPARED BY THE STATE LIBRARY AND ARCHIVES
COMMISSION TO BE ADOPTED AND MAINTAINED.
   The records management officer shall regularly review state library and
archives commission records control schedules, which were adopted by the City
of Canton, and update the city’s copies according to the updates and changes
made by the state.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993; Ord. 2012-01, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 30.29  IMPLEMENTATION OF RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES; DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS
UNDER SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A records control schedule for a department that has been approved and
adopted under §
30.28 above shall be implemented by department heads according to the policies
and procedures of the records management plan.
   (B)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending lawsuit, or
the department head requests in writing to the Records Management Officer that
the record be retained for an additional period.
   (C)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records control
schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the Records
Management Officer from the City Council.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993)
§ 30.30  DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the director and
librarian an approved destruction authorization request.
(Ord. 93-06, passed 4-20-1993)
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICERS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Officers
   
31.01   Office of City Secretary
   
31.02   Office of Fire Marshal
   
31.03   Office of City Manager
City Organizations
   
31.15   Police Reserve
Code of Ethics
   
31.30   Purpose and policy
   
31.31   Definitions
   
31.32   Unethical activity
   
31.33   Disclosure of interest
   
31.34   Employment with city
   
31.35   Service on ono-city board, committee or commission allowed
   
31.36   Adoption of state statute
   
31.37   Cumulative legal effect
 
   
31.99   Penalty
OFFICERS
§ 31.01  OFFICE OF CITY SECRETARY.
   (A)   The office of City Secretary, after the effective date of this
section, shall be filled by appointment by the City Council of the City of
Canton, Texas.
   (B)   The City Secretary shall perform the duties prescribed by the Tex.
Revised Civil Statutes, Art. 1000 and he or she shall perform such other duties
as may be required of him or her by law, ordinance, resolution, or order of the
City Council.
   (C)   The City Secretary shall be appointed for an indefinite period and
shall be subject to discharge at the will of the City Council. He or she shall
receive compensation as the City Council shall fix from time to time, and shall
furnish a surety bond as may be required by the City Council, the premium to be
paid by the City Council.
   (D)   The effective date of this section shall be 10-9-1956.
(Ord. passed 10-9-1956)
§ 31.02  OFFICE OF FIRE MARSHAL.
   (A)   Created. The Office of Fire Marshal is hereby created. The Office
shall be independent of other municipal departments.
   (B)   Appointment of Fire Marshal.
      (1)   The Fire Marshal shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the Council.
      (2)   The Fire Marshal shall be properly qualified for the duties of the
office and shall be removed only for cause.
      (3)   The Fire Marshal shall receive such compensation as provided for by
the Council.
   (C)   Duty to investigate fires. The Fire Marshal shall investigate the
cause, origin and circumstances of every fire occurring within the municipality
by which property has been destroyed or damaged. The investigation shall be
commenced within 24 hours, not including Sunday, of the occurrence of the fire.
   (D)   Authority to take testimony. When in his or her opinion further
investigation is necessary, the Fire Marshal shall take or cause to be taken
the testimony, on oath, of all persons thought to be cognizant of any facts or
to have knowledge relative to the matter under investigation and shall cause
the same to be reduced to writing.
   (E)   Power to summon witnesses. The Fire Marshal shall have the power to
summon witnesses to testify relative to any matter which is a subject of
investigation and may require the production of any document deemed pertinent
thereto. The Fire Marshal is hereby authorized and empowered to administer
oaths and affirmation to any persons appearing before him or her as witnesses.
   (F)   Investigations may be private. All investigations held by or under the
direction of the Fire Marshal may, in his or her discretion, be private.
Persons other than those required to be present may be excluded from the place
where the investigation is held and witnesses may be kept separate and apart
from each other and not allowed to communicate with each other until they have
been examined.
   (G)   Filing criminal charges. If the Fire Marshal shall be of the opinion
that there is evidence sufficient to charge any person with the crime of arson,
or with the attempt to commit the crime of arson, or of conspiracy to defraud
or criminal conduct in connection with any fire, he or she shall cause that
person to be lawfully arrested and charged with the offense, and shall furnish
to the proper prosecuting attorney all the evidence, together with the names of
witnesses and all the information obtained by him or her, including a copy of
all pertinent and material testimony taken.
   (H)   Refusal to provide testimony or evidence unlawful. Any witness who
refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear or testify, or who disobeys any
lawful order of the Fire Marshal or who fails or refuses to produce any
document touching any matter under examination, or who is guilty of any
contemptuous conduct during any of the proceedings of the Fire Marshal in the
matter of the investigation or inquiry, after being summoned to give testimony
in relation to any matter under investigation, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. It shall be the duty of the Fire Marshal to cause all the
offenders to be prosecuted.
   (I)   Authority to enter buildings where fire occurred. When necessary in
the performance of his or her duties, the Fire Marshal shall have the authority
to enter upon and examine any building or premises where any fire has occurred,
and other buildings and premises adjoining or near the same, which authority
shall be exercised only with reason and good discretion.
   (J)   Inspections generally. The Fire Marshal shall have the right at all
reasonable hours, for the purpose of examination, to enter into and upon all
buildings and premises within the municipality. It shall be his or her duty to
enter upon and make or cause to be entered upon and trade a thorough
examination of all mercantile, manufacturing and public buildings together with
the premises belonging thereto. Whenever he or she shall find any building or
other structure which is especially liable to fire and which is so situated as
to endanger other buildings or property, or so occupied that the fire would
endanger other persons or property therein, and whenever he or she shall find
an improper or dangerous arrangement of stoves, ranges, furnaces or other
heating appliances of any kind whatsoever, including chimneys, flues and pipes
with which the same may be connected, or a dangerous arrangement of lighting
devices or electrical wiring or a dangerous or unlawful storage of explosives,
compounds, petroleum, gasoline, kerosene, dangerous chemicals, vegetable
products, ashes, combustible, flammable refuse materials, wastepaper, rags or
other conditions which may be dangerous in character or liable to cause or
promote fire or create conditions dangerous to firefighters combating a fire or
to occupants, he or she shall order the same to be removed or remedied, and
such order shall be forthwith complied with by the owner or occupant of the
building or premises. If the owner or occupant deems himself or herself
aggrieved by the order, he or she may, within five days, appeal the order to
the Mayor, who shall investigate the cause of the complaint and, unless such
order is revoked by the Mayor, the order shall remain in force and be forthwith
complied with by the owner or occupant. Any owner or occupant who fails to
comply with the order within a ten-day period from the date of the notice shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (K)   Fire records to be kept. The Fire Marshal shall keep in his or her
office a record of all fires, together with all facts, statistics and
circumstances, including the origin of the fires and the loss amounts, which
may be determined by the investigation required by this chapter.
   (L)   Monthly reports to state Fire Marshal. At the end of each month, the
Fire Marshal shall report to the State Fire Marshal all existing hazardous
conditions together with a separate report on each fire in the municipality
during the month.
   (M)   Adoption of the International Fire Code; 2003 Ed. The City of Canton
has previously adopted the International Fire Code, 2003 Edition for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion. The adoption of the code is hereby ratified
and affirmed. The provisions of the Standard Fire Prevention Code shall be
controlling and apply to the repair, equipment, use and occupancy, and
maintenance of every existing building or structure within the municipality.
   (N)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any
of the provisions of this subchapter shall be subject to a fine of not less
than $5 and not more than $500 for each offense, together with the costs of
such prosecution. Any person violating any provision of this subchapter may in
addition to a fine or in lieu of a fine be imprisoned for not more than six
months. Each day during which a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2000-13, passed 12-12-2000)
§ 31.03  OFFICE OF CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of City Manager of the City of
Canton, Texas.
   (B)   The Office of City Manager of the City of Canton, Texas, shall be
filled by appointment of the City Council of Canton, Texas.
   (C)   The duties of City Manager shall include:
      (1)   Appointment and, when necessary for the good of the city,
suspension or removal of all officers/directors of the city, except as
otherwise provided by law, subject to approval and consent of the City Council.
The City Manager may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint,
suspend, or remove subordinates in such departments or office;
      (2)   The management and control of the financial affairs and municipal
operations of the city  under the City Council’s direction and advising and
counseling the City Council in the performance of its governmental functions;
and
      (3)   Performance of other duties as may be required by the Council, not
inconsistent with the law or ordinances.
   (D)   The holder of the office of the City Manager shall serve pursuant to
the written agreement entered into between City of Canton and City Manager.
   (E)   The City Council of the City of Canton, Texas, by a majority vote
thereof, shall set a rate of compensation for the Office of City Manager.
   (F)   This is adopted and the Office of City Manager is created under and by
authority of Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 22.071.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed 4-17-2007; Ord. 2007-21, passed 7-17-2007)
CITY ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.15  POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   Police Reserve established as separate and distinct from Police
Department. An Auxiliary Police Force, to be known as the Canton Police Reserve
is hereby established, such force to be separate and distinct from the regular
force of the Police Department of the City of Canton.
   (B)   Composition of Police Reserve. The Police Reserve Force shall be
composed of personnel who have volunteered to join the organization and whose
applications for membership have been accepted and who have complied with all
the rules, regulations and orders provided for the conduct and control of the
members thereof. It shall be composed of not more than 25 members.
   (C)   Diminishing or expanding membership. The Chief of Police may, by
order, diminish or expand the membership of the Police Reserve Force as
exigency may require within the limit established by division (B) above.
   (D)   Supervision and control. The Police Reserve Force shall be under the
direct control and supervision of the Chief of Police, and the members thereof
shall be under the authority, control and command of the Chief of Police,
subject to all of the provisions of this article and other ordinances of the
City of Canton.
   (E)   Duties.
      (1)   The duties of the Police Reserve Force, subject at all times to
direction, supervision and control of the Chief of Police, shall be to assist
the regular members of the Police Department in the enforcement of the law and
in the maintenance of peace and order during periods of emergency designated by
the Chief of Police.
      (2)   The Chief may, by order, establish rules and regulations to govern
the Police Reserve Force, to fix the specific duties of its members, and to
provide for the maintenance of discipline.
      (3)   He or she may change the orders from time to time, and he may
command members of the Police Reserve Force to obey the instructions of regular
police officers in carrying out their duties.
      (4)   The Chief of Police may prescribe other duties than those mentioned
herein, to be performed by the Police Reserve Force, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this article.
   (F)   Application for membership. Application for membership in the Police
Reserve Force shall be filed with the Police Department. The applications shall
be on a form prescribed by the Chief of Police.
   (G)   Applicant's qualifications and references. Each applicant for a
position in the Police Reserve Force must meet the following basic
qualifications:
      (1)   At least 21 years of age;
      (2)   United States citizen;
      (3)   Of good moral character;
      (4)   Never convicted of a felony;
      (5)   Freedom from communicable diseases;
      (6)   Free of physical defects or ailments which would prevent him or her
from performing the duties of the position for which he or she seeks
appointment;
      (7)   Meet the minimum physical, mental, educational, moral and training
standards established by the Commission on Law Enforcement Officers Standards
and Education.
   (H)   Appointment. Members of the Police Reserve Force shall be appointed
from a list of eligibles compiled by the Chief of Police and accompanied by a
complete set of fingerprints, which fingerprints shall be checked by the
identification bureau to ascertain any criminal record. Selections shall be
made through examination, and appointments shall be made by the Chief of
Police. All examinations shall be impartial, practical in their character, and
shall relate to those matters which fairly test the relative capacity of the
persons examined to discharge the duties of the position to which they expect
to be appointed.
   (I)   Oath. Every member of the Police Reserve Force shall, before entering
upon his or her duties, subscribe to an oath that he or she will observe and
obey the Constitution and laws of the United States Constitution and laws of
the State of Texas, and the ordinances of the City of Canton, and that he or
she will carry out the duties of a member of the Police Reserve Force to the
best of his or her ability.
   (J)   Uniforms and badges. The Chief of Police shall prescribe the uniforms
and badges for the members of the Police Reserve Force and direct the manner in
which the same shall be worn.
   (K)   Entry upon private property. No member of the Police Reserve Force
shall break into, or otherwise forcefully enter upon, any private property, or
enter the dwelling or habitation of another person without the consent of the
owner or occupant except when immediately accompanied by a regular member of
the Police Department who then and there requests his or her aid in the
enforcement of the law.
   (L)   Power of arrest. A member of the Police Reserve Force shall have the
following powers of arrest, and none other:
      (1)   Only while on active duty;
      (2)   When an offense is committed in his or her presence or within his
or her view if the offense is one classed as a felony or as an offense against
the public peace;
      (3)   When he or she knows as a fact that the person has committed a
felony even though it was not committed in his or her presence;
      (4)   When a felony has in fact been committed and he or she has
reasonable cause to believe the person arrested has committed it;
      (5)   When authorized by a warrant of arrest and the warrant is in the
actual possession of the member making the arrest;
      (6)   When lending physical aid to any regular member of the Police
Department in making any lawful arrest if authorized by the Chief of Police or
requested by any regular member of the Police Department.
   (M)   Identification card. An identification card and such other insignia or
evidence of identity as the Chief of Police may prescribe shall be issued to
each member of the Police Reserve Force. The identification card and other
identification shall be carried at all times while the reservist is on duty,
and must be surrendered upon the termination of membership in the Police
Reserve.
   (N)   Removal or resignation. The membership of any person in the Police
Reserve Force may be terminated by the Chief of Police at any time for any
cause deemed sufficient by the Chief of Police. In addition to the penalties
provided by law, any violation of law under color of the performance of his or
her duties as a member of the Police Reserve Force and any breach of the rules
and regulations established by the Chief of Police shall subject any member to
summary expulsion.
Any member may resign from the Police Reserve Force at any time, but it shall
be the duty of the member to notify the Chief of Police of his or her
resignation.
   (O)   Impersonation. Any person who shall wear, carry or display a Police
Reserve Force identification card, uniform or badge, or otherwise represent
himself or herself to be connected with the Police Reserve Force, unless he or
she is in fact a member thereof in good standing, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $100.
   (P)   Compensation. Members of the Police Reserve Force shall receive
regular patrolmen’s pay when ordered to active duty by the Chief of Police or
during periods of emergency. There shall be no remuneration for their tour of
training nor for service voluntarily performed.
(Ord. 95-04, passed 6-20-1995)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 31.30  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the proper
operation of democratic government requires that:
      (1)   City officers or officials, including all members of city-appointed
boards, commissions and committees, be independent, impartial and responsible
only to the people of the city;
      (2)   Governmental decisions and policies be made using the proper
procedures of the governmental structure;
      (3)   No city official or officer, including all members of city-
appointed boards, commissions and committees, have any interest nor engage in
any business transaction or professional activity nor incur any obligation of
any nature which is in conflict with the proper discharge of his or her duties
in the public interest;
      (4)   Public office not be used for personal gain; and
      (5)   City officers and officials fully comply with any federal and state
statutes, laws and regulations, as amended, concerning conflicts of interest.
   (B)   In furtherance of this policy, the City Council has hereby determined
that it is advisable to enact this Code of Ethics for city officers and
officials, whether elected or appointed, advisory or administrative, including
all members of city-appointed boards, commissions and committees, to serve not
only as a guide for official conduct of the city’s elected and appointed public
servants, but also as a basis for discipline for those who refuse to abide by
its terms and provisions.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 31.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter the following words and phrases, when
used in this subchapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them, except where
the context dearly indicates a different meaning:
   COMPENSATION.  Any economic benefit received in return for services,
property or investment.
   DISCRETIONARY AUTHORITY.  The power to exercise any judgment in a decision
or action.
   ECONOMIC BENEFIT.  Any money, real or personal property, purchase, sale,
lease, contract, option, credit, loan, discount, service or other tangible or
intangible thing of value, whether similar or dissimilar to those enumerated.
   ENTITY.  A sole proprietorship, partnership, limited partnership, firm,
corporation, professional corporation, holding company, joint stock company,
receivership, trust or any other entity recognized by law through which
business may be conducted.
   GIFT.  A favor, hospitality or economic benefit, other than compensation.
   NON-CITY BOARD COMMITTEE OR COMMISSION.  A board, committee, commission or
other governing or advisory body or panel of an organization, business entity
or governmental entity that is not a city-appointed board, committee or
commission. Examples include, but are not limited to, serving on the board of
directors (or similarly-situated governing or advisory body or panel) of a
water district, municipal management district, hospital district regional
council of government organization or appraisal district.
   OFFICER or OFFICIAL.  Any member of the City Council and any city-appointive
member of a board, commission, authority or committee set up by ordinance,
state law, or otherwise on a temporary or permanent basis, including all
members of a board, commission’ authority or committee which functions only in
an advisory or study capacity and which has no discretionary, governmental,
quasi-judicial or administrative authority.
   RELATIVE.  Any person related to an officer or official within the first
degree by consanguinity or affinity and shall include a spouse, father, mother,
son, daughter, brother or sister.
   SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST.  An interest in another person or an entity if:
      (1)   The interest is ownership of 10% or more of the voting stock,
shares or equity of the entity of ownership of $5,000 or more of the equity or
market value of the entity;
      (2)   Funds received by the person from the other person or entity either
during the previous 12 months or the previous calendar year equaled or exceeded
$5,000 in salary, bonuses, commissions or professional fees or $20,000 in
payment for goods, products or non-professional services or ten percent of the
person’s gross income during that period, whichever is less;
      (3)   The person serves as a corporate officer or member of the board of
directors or other governing board of the for-profit entity, other than a
corporate entity owned or created by the City Council; or
      (4)   The person is a creditor, debtor or guarantor of the other person
or entity in an amount of $5,000 or more.
   SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST IN PARTNERSHIPS, PROFESSIONAL CORPORATIONS AND OTHER
BUSINESS ENTITIES.  If a city officer or official is a member of a partnership
or professional corporation, or conducts business through another entity, a
substantial interest of the partnership,  professional corporation or business
entity shall be deemed to be a substantial interest of the city officer or
official if:
      (1)   The partnership or professional corporation has fewer than 20
partners or shareholders;
      (2)   Regardless of the number of partners or shareholders, the officer
or official has an equity interest, share of draw equal to or greater than five
percent of the capital or revenues of the partnership, professional corporation
or other entity; or
      (3)   With regard to the partnership, professional corporation or other
entity’s substantial interest in a particular client, the officer or official
has personally acted within the preceding 24 months in a professional or
fiduciary capacity for that client.
   SUBSTANTIAL INTEREST IN REAL PROPERTY.  An interest in real property which
is an equitable or legal ownership with a fair market value of $2,500 or more.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 31.32  UNETHICAL ACTIVITY.
   No officer or official of the city, including all members of city-appointed
boards, commissions and committees, shall:
   (A)   Accept any gift or economic benefit of more than $50 in value from any
person or entity which gift or economic benefit might reasonably tend to
influence such officer or official in the discharge of official duties, or
grant in the discharge of official duties any improper gift, economic benefit,
service or thing of value; however, the provisions of this subsection shall not
apply to any political contribution made pursuant to the Texas Election Code;
   (B)   Use his or her official position to solicit or secure special
privileges or exemptions for himself/herself or others;
   (C)   Directly or indirectly disclose or use any information gained solely
by reason of his or her official position for his or her own personal gain or
economic benefit or for the private interest of others;
   (D)   Transact any business on behalf of the city in his or her official
capacity with any business entity of which he or she is an officer, agent or
member or in which he or she owns a substantial interest. If such a
circumstance should arise, he or she  shall make known such interest and
abstain from voting on the matter;
   (E)   Engage in any outside activities which will conflict with his or her
assigned duties in the city;
   (F)   Engage in outside activities incompatible with the full and proper
discharge of his or her duties and responsibilities with the city, or which
might impair his or her independent judgment in the performance of his or her
public duties;
   (G)   Receive any fee or compensation for his or her services as an officer
or official of the city from any source other than the city, except as may
otherwise be provided by law. This shall not prohibit an officer or official
from performing the same or other services that he or she performs for the city
for a private organization if there is no conflict with his or her city duties
and responsibilities;
   (H)   Represent, directly or indirectly, or appear on behalf of the private
interests of others before any agency, board, commission, authority or
committee of the city, or accept any retainer or compensation that is
contingent upon a specific action being taken by the city or any of its
agencies, boards, commissions, authorities or committees, unless such officer
or official of the city has made full disclosure of such representation,
retainer or compensation. For purposes of this section, the term FULL
DISCLOSURE shall mean:
      (1)   The filing of an affidavit with the City Secretary describing such
representation, retainer or compensation;
      (2)   Disclosure, either orally or in writing, to the other members of
the city agency, board, commission, authority or committee;
      (3)   Refraining from any other discussion of the matter with other
members of the city agency, board, commission, authority or committee; and
      (4)   Refraining from voting on or participating in the consideration of
such matter by the city agency, board, commission, authority or committee.
   (I)   Knowingly perform or refuse to perform any act in order to
deliberately hinder the execution and implementation of any city ordinances,
rules or regulations;
   (J)   Have a substantial interest in any contract with the city or a
substantial interest in the sale of the city of any Eand, rights or interest in
any land, materials, supplies or service;
   (K)   Participate in a vote or decision on any matter in which the officer
or official has a substantial interest or in which a relative of the officer or
official has a substantial interest;
   (L)   Grant any special consideration, treatment or advantage to any
individual, business organization or group beyond that which is normally
available to every other individual, business organization or group.
   (M)   Knowingly disclose information deemed confidential by law; or
   (N)   Participate in any vote or decision relative to any amendment to the
city’s comprehensive plan or any change in the zoning classification of
property if the officer or official or a relative of the officer or official
has any interest in any property within 200 feet of the property which is the
subject of the amendment to the city’s comprehensive plan or on which the
change in zoning classification is proposed. Further, any officer or official
who has any such interest in property shall be legally disqualified from
participating in any vote or decision relative to the comprehensive plan
amendment or change in zoning classification.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 1-15-2019)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.33  DISCLOSURE OF INTEREST.
   Any officer or official of the city, including all members of city-appointed
boards, commissions and committees, who has a prohibited or substantial
interest in any matter pending before the city shall disclose such interest to
other members of the City Council, committee, commission or board of which he
or she is a member, and shall refrain from further discussion of the matter;
shall not be physically present when the subject is discussed in open or
executive session; and shall not vote on or participate further in any such
matter.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 31.34  EMPLOYMENT WITH CITY.
   Any City Councilmember who wishes to seek employment with the City of Canton
must resign from the Council prior to submitting an application.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 31.35  SERVICE ON NON-CITY BOARD, COMMITTEE OR COMMISSION ALLOWED.
   Any officer or official of the city, including all members of city-appointed
boards, commissions and committees, may serve on a non-city board, committee or
commission, unless otherwise prohibited by law, and such service shall not be
considered a violation of this Code of Ethics.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 31.36  ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTE.
   Chapter 171 of the Texas Local Government Code, as amended, relative to
conflicts of interest of officers of municipalities in the State of Texas, is
hereby adopted and made a part of this Code of Ethics for all purposes, with
the proviso that in case of a conflict between the provisions of this Code of
Ethics and Chapter 171 of the Texas Local Government Code, the more restrictive
provision shall govern.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 31.37  CUMULATIVE LEGAL EFFECT.
   In its legal effect, this subchapter is cumulative of all provisions of the
state law, the code of ordinances or federal and state statutes, laws or
regulations defining and prohibiting conflicts of interest.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 1-15-2019)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any city officer or official, including all members of city-appointed
boards, commissions and committees, knowingly violating any provision of §§
31.30 through
31.37 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine as provided in §
10.99 of the code of ordinances.
   (B)   The penalty prescribed herein shall not limit the power of the City
Council to discipline its members pursuant to applicable provisions of §§
31.30 through
31.37, state statutes or other laws defining and prohibiting conflicts of
interest.
(Ord. 2019-6, passed 1-15-2019)
CHAPTER 32:  PUBLIC SAFETY; EMERGENCIES
Section
General Emergencies
   
32.01   Emergency action plan for Mill Creek Reservoir and Dry Creek Dams
Comprehensive Emergency Management
   
32.15   Organization
   
32.16   Emergency Management Director
   
32.17   Emergency management plan
   
32.18   Interjurisdictional program
   
32.19   Override
   
32.20   Liability
   
32.21   Commitment of funds
   
32.22   Offenses
   
32.23   Limitations
Ambulance Service System
   
32.35   Definitions
   
32.36   Authority to operate; exceptions
   
32.37   Compliance with law
   
32.38   Application for ambulance permit
   
32.39   Permits not transferable
   
32.40   Conditions for issuance of permit
   
32.41   Failure to pay service charges; prohibited
 
   
32.99   Penalty
GENERAL EMERGENCIES
§ 32.01  EMERGENCY ACTION PLAN FOR MILL CREEK RESERVOIR AND DRY CREEK DAMS.
   (A)   Plan. The document attached to Ordinance 2011-04 entitled City of
Canton Emergency Action Plans, Mill Creek and Dry Creek Watersheds, Van Zandt
County, Texas dated January 2011 is hereby adopted for use by the City of
Canton in such an emergency.
   (B)   Override. At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to this subchapter shall be in effect, they shall
supersede and override all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations
insofar as the latter may be inconsistent therewith.
   (C)   Liability. This subchapter is an exercise by the city of its
governmental functions for the protection of the public peace, health and
safety and neither the City of Canton, the agents and representatives of the
city, nor any individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association
or trustee, nor any of the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out,
complying with or attempting to comply with any order, rule or regulation
promulgated pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter shall be liable for
any damage sustained to persons as the result of the activity.
   (D)   Limitations. This subchapter shall not be construed so as to conflict
with any state or federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule or
regulation.
(Ord. 2007-09, passed 4-17-2007; Ord. 2011-04, passed 3-21-2011)
COMPREHENSIVE EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 32.15  ORGANIZATION.
   There exists the Office of Emergency Management Director of the City of
Canton which shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
   (A)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Director;
   (B)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the city and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this subchapter. He or she may delegate authority
for execution shall remain with the Director.
   (C)   The operational Emergency Management organization of the City of
Canton shall consist of the officers and employees of the city so designated by
the Director in the Emergency Management Plan, as well as organized volunteer
groups. The functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed
among such officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the Emergency
Management Plan.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-16-2005)
§ 32.16  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall
include the following:
   (A)   Surveying actual or potential hazards which threaten life and property
within the city and identifying and requiring or recommending the
implementation of measures which would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce
the impact of those hazards if a disaster did occur;
   (B)   Supervision of the development and approval of an emergency management
plan for the City of Canton, and shall recommend for adoption by the City
Council all mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of
the plan;
   (C)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster. The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except by or
with the consent of the City Council. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the City Secretary;
   (D)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations or directives which
are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this subchapter. Those
proclamations, regulations or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the City Secretary;
   (E)   Direction and control of the operations of the emergency management
organization as well as the training of emergency management personnel;
   (F)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the emergency management organization of the city;
   (G)   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district, state,
regional or federal emergency management organizations;
   (H)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any
department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
emergency management plan;
   (I)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local political
subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed desirable,
of an agreement with the county in which the city is located and with other
municipalities within the county, for the county-wide coordination of emergency
management efforts;
   (J)   Supervision of, and final authorization for the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the city;
   (K)   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the City Attorney, for
use of private property for public shelter and other purposes;
   (L)   Surveying the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies
and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for herein; and
   (M)   Other requirements as specified in the Texas Disaster Act, Tex. Gov’t
Code, Ch. 418.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-16-2005)
§ 32.17  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   A comprehensive Emergency Management Plan shall be developed and
maintained in a current state.
   (B)   The plan shall set forth the form of the organization; establish and
designate divisions and functions; assign responsibilities, tasks, duties and
powers; and designate officers and employees to carry out the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (C)   As provided by state law, the plan shall follow the standards and
criteria established by the State Division of Emergency Management of the State
of Texas.
   (D)   Insofar as possible, the form of organization, titles and terminology
shall conform to the recommendations of the State Division of Emergency
Management.
   (E)   When approved, it shall be the duty of all departments and agencies to
perform the functions assigned by the plan and to maintain their portion of the
plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
   (F)   The emergency management plan shall be considered supplementary to
this subchapter and have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-16-2005)
§ 32.18  INTERJURISDICTIONAL PROGRAM.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge of the County
of Van Zandt and the mayors of the other cities in the county in the formation
of an interjurisdictional emergency management program for the County of Van
Zandt and shall have the authority to cooperate in the preparation of an
interjurisdictional emergency management plan and in the appointment of a joint
Emergency Management Coordinator, as well as all powers necessary to
participate in a county-wide program of emergency management insofar as the
program may affect the City of Canton.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-16-2005)
§ 32.19  OVERRIDE.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this subchapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede and
override all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the
latter may be inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-16-2005)
§ 32.20  LIABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither
the City of Canton, the agents and representatives of the city, nor any
individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or trustee,
nor any of the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or
attempting to comply with any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to
the provisions of this subchapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to
persons as the result of the activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants to the City of Canton a license of
privilege, or otherwise permits the city to inspect, designate and use the
whole or any part or parts of the real estate or premises for the purpose of
sheltering persons during an actual, impending or practice enemy attack or
natural or human-made disaster shall, together with his successors in interest,
if any, not be civilly liable for the death of, or injury to, any person on or
about the real estate or premises under the license, privilege or other
permission or for loss of, or damage to, the property of such person.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-16-2005)
§ 32.21  COMMITMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city
in carrying out any Emergency Management activity authorized by this subchapter
without prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have any right
to bind the city by contract, agreement or otherwise without prior and specific
approval of the City Council unless during a declared disaster.
   (B)   During a declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or commit public
funds of the city when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of
health, life or property.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-16-2005)
§ 32.22  OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder or
delay any member of the Emergency Management organization in the enforcement of
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member of the
emergency management organization of the City of Canton, unless authority to do
so has been granted to such person by the proper officials.
   (C)   Convictions for violations of the provisions of this subchapter shall
be punishable by fine not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-16-2005)
§ 32.23  LIMITATIONS.
   This subchapter shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state or
federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 2005-17, passed 7-16-2005)
AMBULANCE SERVICE SYSTEM
§ 32.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMBULANCE.  Any privately or publicly owned motor vehicle or helicopter that
is specifically designed or constructed and equipped and maintained or operated
for the transportation of patients.
   AMBULANCE PATIENT.  Any person being transported to or from a health care
facility in a reclining position from any point within the City of Canton.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE CONTRACTOR.  That entity which is currently under contract
with the City of Canton to provide all ambulance services in the City of
Canton, except those specifically exempted by this subchapter.
(Ord. 96-11, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 32.36  AUTHORITY TO OPERATE; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated a vehicle for
ambulance purposes or furnish, conduct, maintain, advertise or otherwise be
engaged in the business or service of the transportation of ambulance patients
as defined herein within the City of Canton unless that person is the Ambulance
Service Contractor as defined herein. No person shall knowingly solicit
ambulance services regulated herein except from the Ambulance Service
Contractor.
   (B)   However, no prior city approval shall be required for nor shall this
subchapter apply to any ambulance or ambulance service provider:
      (1)   Which is rendering assistance to patients in the case of a major
catastrophe or emergency with which the contractor’s ambulances are
insufficient or unable to cope;
      (2)   Transporting a patient who is picked up from a location beyond the
City of Canton and transported to a location within the City of Canton;
      (3)   Transporting a patient who is picked up from a location beyond the
City of Canton and transported to a location beyond the limits of the City of
Canton and only incidentally passing through the City of Canton;
      (4)   Transporting a patient who is picked up from a location within the
City of Canton and transported to a location beyond the City of Canton,
providing the ambulance or ambulance service area initially transported the
patient into the City of Canton and is making the return trip; or
      (5)   Which is providing stand-by special events coverage without
receiving compensation.
   (C)   Violations of this section are hereby declared to be public nuisances
and shall be prohibited and abated in actions at law or in equity.
(Ord. 96-11, passed 10-15-1996)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.37  COMPLIANCE WITH LAW.
   All persons and entities regulated under this subchapter shall comply with
the laws of the state and reference to permits, licenses, minimum equipment and
minimum qualifications of operators and attendants and all state and federal
laws and regulations applicable to its ambulance operation.
(Ord. 96-11, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 32.38  APPLICATION FOR AMBULANCE PERMIT.
   Every person, partnership or corporation desiring to obtain an ambulance
permit shall make application in writing on a form provided for that purpose to
the City Manager of the City of Canton. The applications shall contain the
name, address and telephone number of the applicant, the owner of the ambulance
for which the permit is to be issued, and the address and telephone number of
the location from which ambulance service will be originated. The application
shall also show the make, model, motor number and correct state license number
of the ambulance for which a permit is being requested. Every application when
filed shall be sworn to by the applicant.
(Ord. 96-11, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 32.39  PERMITS NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No permit shall be transferable and every permit shall expire December 31 of
the calendar year in which issued.
(Ord. 96-11, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 32.40  CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   No ambulance permit shall be issued:
   (A)   (1)   Unless there is in full force and effect a policy or policies of
public liability and property damage insurance, issued by a casualty insurance
company authorized to do business in the State of Texas, and in the standard
form approved by the Board of Insurance Commissioners of the State of Texas,
with coverage provisions insuring the public from any loss or damage that may
arise to any person or property by reason of the operation of the ambulance for
which the permit is issued, and providing that the amount of recovery shall be
in limits not less than the following sums:
         (a)   For damages arising out of bodily injury to or death of one
person in any one accident, $100,000;
         (b)   For damages arising out of a bodily injury to or death of two or
more persons in any one accident, $300,000;
         (c)   For any injury to or destruction of property in any one
accident, $50,000; and
      (2)   The City Manager of the City of Canton has been furnished with a
current insurance certificate certifying that such a policy as specified above
is in full force and effect.
      (3)   The insurance policy shall also contain an endorsement that
cancellation of the policy shall not become effective before ten-days’ written
notice to the city of the termination or cancellation.
   (B)   If any delinquent taxes or other debt is owed to the city by the
applicant;
   (C)   Unless the applicant has been issued a permit by the State Board of
Health pursuant to Tex. Health and Safety Code, Title 9, Ch. 773; and/or
   (D)   If the applicant, an employer or any employee of the applicant, or any
person residentially domiciled with the applicant, has had an ambulance permit
revoked within one year preceding the date of application.
(Ord. 96-11, passed 10-15-1996)
§ 32.41  FAILURE TO PAY SERVICE CHARGES; PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, with intent to defraud, to
request or accept the service of any ambulance within the city, having no
intention of paying for the service.
   (B)   Failure, by the person requesting or accepting the service of an
ambulance, to pay to the person furnishing such service the customary charge
therefor within 90 days after demand for payment is made, shall be prima facie
evidence of intent to defraud and prima facie evidence that such person had no
intention of paying for such services when the same were requested or accepted.
   (C)   Demand for payment, as used in this chapter, shall be written demand,
sent by registered or certified mail addressed to the person requesting or
accepting those services and to the address given by or on behalf of such
person at the time the services were requested or accepted. Intent to defraud
or intention not to pay for the services may be shown by direct evidence.
(Ord. 96-11, passed 10-15-1996)  Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
32.35 through
32.41 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in an amount not to exceed $500 for each violation.
      (2)   It shall not be necessary for the complaint to negative any
exception contained in §§
32.35 through
32.41 concerning any prohibited act, but any such exception made in this
chapter may be urged as a defense by any person charged by the complaint.
(Ord. 96-11, passed 10-15-1996)
CHAPTER 33:  FEES AND FINANCE
Section
   
33.01   City fee schedule
   
33.02   Municipal Court technology fee
   
33.03   Juvenile Case Manager fee
   
33.04   Fees and cost recovery for public safety services
   
33.05   Taxation of tangible personal property in transit
§ 33.01  CITY FEE SCHEDULE.
FISCAL YEAR 2020-2021 CITY OF CANTON FEE SCHEDULE
Effective October 1, 2020
FISCAL YEAR 2020-2021 CITY OF CANTON FEE SCHEDULE
Effective October 1, 2020
BUILDING PERMIT FEES
(All permit fees double for projects started without permit)
New commercial and institutional   $0.25 per sq. ft. - minimum $100
New residential                    $0.20 per sq. ft. - minimum $75
Commercial remodel or alterations  $0.20 per sq. ft. - minimum $75
Commercial roof permit             $75
Residential remodel or alterations $0.15 per sq. ft. - minimum $50
Demolition                         $50
House moving                       $100 plus police and utility costs
Dirt moving permit                 $25
Storage shed (built offsite,       $50
delivered on skids (all sizes))
Accessory building                 $0.10 per sq. ft - minimum $50
Accessory building trade           $0.06 per sq. ft. - minimum $25 per trade for accessory building
Plan review (new commercial)       $150
Plan review (commercial remodel)   $75 (lease space up to 1,500 sq. ft.)
Plan review (commercial remodel)   $100 (over 1,500 sq. ft.)
Plan review (residential remodel)  $37.50
Plan review (new residential)      $50
Plan review (commercial updates    $10 per page
after plans issued)
Plan review (commercial roof)      $75
Engineer’s review                Cost plus 10%
Foundation repairs                 $50 with engineer design
Certificate of occupancy fee       $125
(commercial)
Certificate of occupancy fee       $5
(residential)
Re-inspection fee                  $50
ELECTRICAL, PLUMBING AND MECHANICAL FEES
(Fees double if started without a permit)
New single-family residential      $0.08 per sq. ft. - minimum $50
Residential remodel                $0.06 per sq. ft. - minimum $40
New or remodel commercial or       $0.08 per sq. ft. - minimum $50
institutional
OTHER PERMIT FEES
(Fees double if started without a permit)
Swimming pools                     $150
Irrigation                         $100
Parking lots                       $5 per 1,000 sq. ft. - minimum $50
Fences (all)                       $40
Flatwork (driveways, walks, non-   $50
load-bearing concrete patio)
Cell towers, masks, poles          $1 per foot - minimum $500
Flood plain development            $50
Fuel tank                          $100
Water well                         $100
Mobile or manufactured home (set-  $100
up)
Contractor registration (required  No fee
annually for all construction)
Motorized personal transportation  $25/location
device
Carnival or fairs                  $50
Special event                      $25
Tent permit                        $50
Amusement building                 $50
Garage/estate sale                 $5 + $2.50 each additional sign
Boat permit                        $3/day or $25/year
Utility work fee (explanation)     $75
FIRE DEPARTMENT PERMIT FEES
(Fees double if started without a permit)
Fire sprinkler                     $0.05 sq. ft. - minimum $50
Automatic fire alarm               $150
Smoke and heat vents               $100
Flow testing fire hydrant          $100
Fire department connections (FDCs) $100
Fire extinguishing systems         $100
High piled storage                 $100
Access gates                       $100
Pyrotechnics display               $100
Temporary fuel vessels for         $100
construction site
Asphalt kettles and roofing        $100
Hot works (welding)                $100
Outdoor burn permit (residential)  $10
Outdoor burn permit (commercial)   $200
Emergency alarms                   A $50 fine will be imposed after three false alarms for either commercial or residential first responder
                                   alarms.
SIGN PERMIT FEES
(Fees double if started without a permit)
Wall/pole/monument sign ≤ 50 sq. $35
ft.
Wall/pole/monument sign 51 to 100  $60
sq. ft.
Wall or pole sign ≥ 100 sq. ft.  $75
Billboards, single face            $150
Billboards, double face            $300
Temporary banners                  $25
Illuminated sign fee               $50
WATER TAP FEES
                                  Residential                        Commercial
Water tap - 1 inch                 $725                               $825
Water tap - 2 inches               $925                               $1,025
Meter - 3/4 inches                 $150                               $150
Meter - 1 inch                     $250                               $250
Meter - 2 inches                   $2,750                             $2,750
Taps, meters and vaults over 2     To be installed by owner
inches
Taps that exceed 50 linear foot    Cost of labor and materials
SEWER TAP FEES
Sewer tap - residential            $625
Sewer tap - 4 inch commercial      $825
Sewer tap - over 4 inches          To be installed by owner
Street cut                         $600 (asphalt)
                                   $750 + concrete reimbursement (concrete)
ROAD BORE
Small - 2 inches and smaller       $45 per foot
Large - 2 inches to 4 inches       $75 per foot
WATER RATES
                                  RESIDENTIAL                                                         COMMERCIAL
                                  Inside City                        Outside City                     Inside City  Outside City
0 - 750 gallons                    $22                                $38.25                           $32.50       $44.25
751 - 2,500 gallons                $4.75 per thousand$4.75 per thousand
2,501 - 5,000 gallons              $4.80 per thousand$4.80 per thousand
5,001 - 10,000 gallons             $4.85 per thousand$4.85 per thousand
10,001 - 15,000 gallons            $4.90 per thousand$4.90 per thousand
15,001 - 25,000 gallons            $4.95 per thousand$4.95 per thousand
25,001 - 50,000 gallons            $5.00 per thousand$5.00 per thousand
50,001 - 100,000 gallons           $5.05 per thousand$5.05 per thousand
100,001 - 300,000 gallons          $5.10 per thousand$5.10 per thousand
Over 300,000 gallons               $5.15 per thousand$5.15 per thousand
Meter Deposits
Increase by $50 upon third disconnect
   Residential utility deposit  $100
   Commercial utility deposit   $150
   2½ inch hydrant utility depo$2,000
Bulk Water Rates                   $40/1,000 gallons
Return Check Fee                  $30
WASTEWATER RATES
                                                                                                       CUSTOMERS WITHOUT CITY WATER
(Based on water consumption)       RESIDENTIAL                        COMMERCIAL                       (water consumption per provider’s
                                                                                                       bill) 
                                  Inside  City       Outside CiInside  City       OutsideResidential Commercial
0 - 1,500 gallons                  $26.05   $41.80                 $38.30   $46.80               $28.73       $42.15
1,501 - 10,000 gallons             $2.90 per thousand                 $2.90 per thousand               $3.83 per    $3.83 per thousand
                                                                                                       thousand
10,001 - 15,000 gallons            $2.95 per thousand                 $2.95 per thousand               $3.83 per    $3.83 per thousand
                                                                                                       thousand
15,001 - 25,000 gallons            $3.00 per thousand                 $3.00 per thousand               $3.83 per    $3.83 per thousand
                                                                                                       thousand
25,001 - 50,000 gallons            $3.05 per thousand                 $3.05 per thousand               $3.83 per    $3.83 per thousand
                                                                                                       thousand
50,001 - 100,000 gallons           $3.10 per thousand                 $3.10 per thousand               $3.83 per    $3.83 per thousand
                                                                                                       thousand
100,001 - 300,000 gallons          $3.15 per thousand                 $3.15 per thousand               $3.83 per    $3.83 per thousand
                                                                                                       thousand
Over 300,000 gallons               $3.20 per thousand                 $3.20 per thousand               $3.83 per    $3.83 per thousand
                                                                                                       thousand
                                  Based on winter avg.                                                Based on winter avg.
Reconnection Fees (nonrefundable)  Reconnection fee: $25
                                   After hours connection fee: $50
Septic                             Hauling permit:   $30 per vehicle
                                   Septic waste:      $0.10 per gallon
GARBAGE RATES
Residential                        $13.75
Polycart, 1 x week (inside city)    
Polycart, 1 x week (outside city)  $17.99
Commercial Cart Service - 1 x week $25.30
Commercial Hand Load
   0 to 5 bags                  1 x week      2 x week
   6 to 10 bags                 $17.94      $21.83
   11 to 15 bags                $21.43      $24.36
   16 to 20 bags                $26.85      $29.18
                                   $29.95      $35.76
Commercial Containers              1 x week   2 x week   3 x week   4 x week                               Extra unscheduled (amt
                                                                                                                    added to base charge)
   2 yard                       $56.35      $91.30      $119.42                                   $22.86
   3 yard                       $64.86      $121.14      $181.97                                  $24.54
   4 yard                       $82.77      $144.15      $195.29                                  $29.42
   6 yard                       $114.31      $176.54      $221.73                                 $38.06
   8 yard                       $139.88      $216.63      $261.79      $308.84              $48.95
Industrial Containers              Rent         Haul
   20 cu yd open top            $101.62      $419.35
   30 cu yd open top            $105.77      $513.63
   40 cu yd open top            $114.31      $595.53
   30 cu yd compacted           Negotiated
   40 cu yd compacted            
                                   Negotiated
TRANSFER STATION RATES -   The transfer station rates can be obtained by calling Sanitation Solutions at 903-567-4760.
MISCELLANEOUS FEES
                                                                      The application for annexation identifies the lot or tract of land,
Application for annexation         $200                               ownership and starts the process to enable a lot or a tract of land to
                                                                      be annexed in to the city limits.  (See annex application for time line
                                                                      and process.)
Application for zoning change      $200
Application for specific use                                          To allow certain uses within base zoning districts that, under most
permit                             $200                               circumstances, would not be compatible with other permitted uses but
                                                                      with certain conditions and development restrictions may be compatible.
Application for variance           $150
Amended plat                       $150                               A revised plat correcting errors or making minor changes to the original
                                                                      recorded final plat.
Plat                               $200                               For a new subdivision or large scale development.
Re-plat                            $200                               The re-subdividing of any part or all of a block or blocks of a
                                                                      previously platted subdivision, additional lot or tract.
                                                                      A subdivision resulting in four or fewer lots, provided that the plat is
                                                                      for conveyance purposes only (i.e., sale of the property with no
                                                                      development/construction proposed), that the plat does not create any
                                                                      new easements for public facilities, or the construction/development of
Minor plat                         $75                                said subdivision will not require that construction of any new street
                                                                      (or portion thereof) or the extension of any municipal facilities to
                                                                      serve any lot within the subdivision.  Any property to be subdivided
                                                                      using a minor plat shall already be served by all required city
                                                                      utilities and service or in the ETJ of the City of Canton with no
                                                                      services or water only.
                                   $150                               Restaurant (0 - 50 seats)
                                   $190                               Restaurant (over 50 seats)
                                   $190                               Lounge/tavern
                                   $225                               Grocery/supermarket
                                   $115                               Wholesale grocery
                                   $115                               Food manufacturer
Health permit fees                 $25                                Special event
                                   $115                               Convenience store
                                   $75                                Bakery/delicatessen
                                   $75                                Nursing home
                                   $75                                Day care center/commercial
                                   $75                                Hotel buffet
                                   $75                                Temporary vendor
Return check fee                   $30
Certified copy                     $5
                                   $4.00                              Police incident/accident report
                                   $0.10 per page                     Standard paper copy.  Each side with recorded  information is considered
                                                                      a page
                                   $0.50 per page                     Oversize paper copy (e.g. 11" x 17", greenbar, bluebar, not including
                                                                      maps and photographs)
                                   Actual cost                        Specialty paper (e.g. mylar, blueprint, blueline, map, photographic )
                                                                     Nonstandard copy:
                                   $1.00                              Diskette, rewritable CD (CD-RW), non-rewritable CD (CD-R), audio
                                                                      cassette
                                   Actual cost                        Magnetic tape, data cartridge, tape cartridge, JAZ drive, other
                                                                      electronic media
                                   $2.50                              VHS video cassette
                                   $3.00                              Digital video disc (DVD)
                                                                      Labor charge for locating, compiling, manipulating data and reproducing
                                                                      public information for requests involving more than 50 pages and/or
Production of public records       $15.00 per hour                    requiring retrieval from off-site storage, and/or redacting confidential
                                                                      information pursuant to a mandatory exception of the Act which also
                                                                      qualifies for the labor charge pursuant to Tex. Gov’t Code, § 552.261(a)
                                                                      (1) or (2).
                                                                      Labor charge for programming if a request requires the services of a
                                                                      programmer in order to execute an existing program or to create a new
                                   $28.50 per hour                    program so that requested information may be accessed and copied.  If
                                                                      the city does not have in-house programming capabilities, it shall
                                                                      comply with requests in accordance with Tex. Gov’t Code, § 552.261(b).
                                                                      Overhead charges may be included for requests over 50 pages or if the
                                   20% of labor charge                production qualifies pursuant to Tex. Gov’t Code, § 552.261(a)(1) or
                                                                      (2).
                                   Actual cost                        Postage, shipping and supplies such as labels, boxes, etc.
                                                                      Public information charges are established by the Tex. Admin. Code,
                                                                     Title 1, Part 3, Chapter 70, Rule 70.3.  City fees are subject to change
                                                                      in accordance with the Tex. Admin. Code.
ANIMAL SHELTER FEES
Impoundment fee - unrestrained dog or cat without vaccination tag or license attached:
   1st offense                  $30
   Each subsequent offense      $30 x number of offenses for owner
Impoundment fee - unrestrained dog or cat displaying evidence of vaccination or registration:
   1st offense                  $25
   Each subsequent offense      $30 x number of offenses for owner
Impoundment fee - livestock
   1st offense                  $35
   Each subsequent offense      $30 x number of offenses for owner
Impoundment fee - after business   $60
hours
Daily boarding fee - dog or cat    $10
10-day quarantine boarding fee -   $100
  dog or cat
Adoption fee - dog or cat          $35 (includes microchip)
Euthanasia/disposal fee            $40
Surrenders (inside city limits)
   1st adult animal             $20
   Each additional adult animal $10 each
   Puppies/kittens              $5 each
Surrenders (from Van, Wills Point
or Grand Saline only)
   Adult                        $30 each
   Puppies/kittens              $10 each
10-day hold                        $100
 
(Ord. 2006-08, passed 6-20-2006; Ord. 2008-17, passed 9-2-2008; Ord. 2009-24,
passed 8-2-2009; Ord. 2010-17, passed 9-14-2010; Ord. 2012-06, passed 5-15-
2012; Ord. 2013-18, passed 9-10-2013; Ord. 2014-18, passed 11-18-2014; Ord.
2017-13, passed 9-5-2017; Ord. 2018-04, passed 2-20-2018; Ord. 2018-15, passed
9-4-2018; Ord. 2019-13, passed 9-3-2019; Ord. 2020-18, passed 9-1-2020)
§ 33.02  MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FEE.
   (A)   Establishment of Municipal Court technology fund.
      (1)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court
Technology Fund, hereinafter called The Fund, pursuant to Tex. Code of Crim.
Procedure, Art. 102.0172.
      (2)   The fund may be maintained in an interest bearing account and may
be maintained in the general revenue account of the city.
   (B)   Establishment of amount of the fee; assessment and collection.
      (1)   The fee shall be in the amount of $4.
      (2)   The fee shall be assessed and collected from the defendant upon
conviction for a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal Court as a cost of court.
A defendant is considered convicted if:
         (a)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
         (b)   The person is placed on community supervision, including
deferred adjudication; or
         (c)   The court defers final disposition of person's case.
      (3)   The fee shall be collected on conviction for an offense committed
on or after the date upon which this section is adopted.
      (4)   The Clerk of the Court shall collect the fee and pay the fee to the
City Manager, who shall deposit the fee into the Municipal Court technology
fund.
   (C)   Designated use of the fund and administration.
      (1)   The fund shall be used only to finance the purchase of
technological enhancements for the Municipal Court of this city, including all
items described in Tex. Code of Crim. Procedure, Art. 102.0172: computer
systems, computer networks, computer hardware, computer software, imaging
systems, electronic kiosks, electronic ticket writers or docket management
systems, and any related service and maintenance agreements.
      (2)   The fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the
City Council of this city.
(Ord. 2003-13, passed 10-21-2003)
§ 33.03  JUVENILE CASE MANAGER FEE.
   (A)   That there is created a juvenile case manager fee, as set forth in the
Tex. Code of Crim. Procedure, Art. 102.0174 (Fee).
   (B)   A defendant convicted of a ‘fine-only misdemeanor offense’ in
Municipal Court shall pay a juvenile case manager fee, not to exceed $5, as a
court cost. The fee does not apply to parking citations. For purposes of this
section, a person is considered to be ‘convicted’ if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on the defendant by the court: or
      (2)   The defendant receives deferred disposition from the court,
including deferred proceedings under Tex. Code of Crim. Procedure Art. 45.052
or 45.053.
   (C)   The Municipal Court Judge is authorized to waive the juvenile case
manager fee in cases of demonstrated financial hardship on the part of a
convicted defendant. For example, the Municipal Court Judge may waive the fee
if the Judge has determined that the defendant is: indigent; has insufficient
resources or income to pay the fee; or, is otherwise unable to pay all or part
of the underlying fine or costs.
   (D)   The Municipal Court clerks shall collect the fee and pay it to the
City Treasurer to be kept in a separate fund known as the Juvenile Case Manager
Fund.
   (E)   The fund may be used only to finance the salary and benefits of a
juvenile case manager that is employed by the Municipal Court under Tex. Code
of Crim. Procedure, Art. 45.056.
   (F)   Upon approval of the City Council, the Municipal Court may employ one
or more full-time juvenile case managers to assist the court in administering
the court’s juvenile docket and in supervising its court orders in juvenile
cases.
   (G)   The fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the City
Council.
   (H)   The juvenile case manager fee shall be charged to and applied only to
conduct that occurs on or after January 1, 2006.
(Ord. 2005-40, passed 12-20-2005)
§ 33.04  FEES AND COST RECOVERY FOR PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICES.
   (A)   Collection of fees.
      (1)   The City of Canton Fire Chief, or his or her designee, shall
collect all fees and costs for fire prevention services and for other public
safety and emergency services rendered by the Department. The fees include but
are not limited to the use of equipment, materials, maintenance and overhead
expenses and costs of whatever nature which constitute full reimbursement to
the Canton Fire Department for services actually rendered and as hereinafter
authorized.
      (2)   Within 30 days of the date of providing fire prevention and
protection services or other public safety and emergency services, the Chief of
the Canton Fire Department, or his or her designee, shall submit an invoice for
all costs, fees, charges and expenses related to providing such services, to
include but not limited to all actual expenses including costs of equipment
operations, cost of materials utilized; costs of specialists, experts or other
contract labor not in the full time employment of the city; overtime costs; and
other incidental costs incurred by the city as a result of the incident, to the
customer, client, owner, designated agent, representative and/or insurance
company who received, covered and/or otherwise benefitted from these services.
The provisions of this section shall apply only to those persons who were not
residing within the City of Canton at the time of the incident, which led to
the benefits of services.
      (3)   Any bills, fines or penalties, including but not limited to clean
up costs, fees or expenses that are imposed upon the City of Canton or the
Canton Fire Department by any local, state or federal agency, related to the
rendering of fire protection or prevention services or of other public safety
and emergency services, may be included in the billing or billed separately
within 30 days of receipt.
      (4)   Any fees or expenses billed by the Chief, or his or her designee,
shall be payable in full within 60 days of the date of the invoice. Failure to
timely make payment may result in the accumulation of interest on any unpaid
balances at the rate of 10% per annum for any unpaid balances.
   (B)   Enforcement. The city may enforce the provisions of this section by
any action allowed by law for the collection of any amounts due hereunder,
including reasonable and necessary attorney’s fees, costs and expenses, in a
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2001-03, passed 3-20-2001)
§ 33.05  TAXATION OF TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY IN TRANSIT.
   The goods-in-transit, as defined in Tex. Tax Code, § 11.253(a)(2), as
amended by House Bill 621, enacted by the 80th Texas Legislature in Regular
Session, shall remain subject to taxation by the City of Canton, Texas.
(Ord. 2007-35, passed 11-20-2007)
CHAPTER 34:  MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM
Section
   
34.01   Municipal Retirement System adopted by reference
§ 34.01  MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of the municipal retirement system is adopted and
incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at
length herein.
(Ord. 91-12, passed 11-19-1991; Ord. passed 7-15-1997; Ord. 98-05, passed 8-18-
1998; Ord. 2004-25, passed 9-28-2004; Ord. 2004-26, passed 9-28-2004)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   INDUSTRIAL WASTE REGULATIONS
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
      
52.   WATER CONSERVATION PLAN
      
53.   REFUSE; SOLID WASTE
      
54.   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 50:  INDUSTRIAL WASTE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   General discharge limitations
   
50.03   Detrimental discharges
   
50.04   Heavy metals and toxic materials
   
50.05   Garbage
   
50.06   Storm water and other unpolluted drainage
   
50.07   Temperature
   
50.08   Radioactive waste
   
50.09   Impairment of facilities
   
50.10   Compliance with existing authority
Specific Regulations
   
50.25   Approving authority requirements
   
50.26   Review and approval
   
50.27   Requirements for traps, interceptors and separators
   
50.28   Requirements for building sewers
   
50.29   Sampling and testing
   
50.30   User charge system
   
50.31   Savings clause
   
50.32   Conditions or permits
   
50.33   Power to enter property
   
50.34   Authority to disconnect service
   
50.35   Notice
   
50.36   Continuing prohibited discharges
   
50.37   Failure to pay
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVING AUTHORITY.  The City Manager or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   B.O.D. or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The quantity of oxygen by weight,
expressed in mg/l, utilized in biochemical oxidation of organic under standard
laboratory conditions for five days at a temperature of 20°C.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal (also called the HOUSE LATERAL or HOUSE CONNECTION).
   CITY.  The City of Canton, Texas, or any authorized person acting in its
behalf.
   C.O.D. (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The measure of the oxygen consuming
capacity of inorganic and organic matter present in the water or wastewater
expressed in mg/l as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a
specific test, but not differentiating between stable and unstable organic
matter and thus not necessarily correlating with biochemical demand.
   CONTROL MANHOLE.  A manhole giving access to a building sewer at some point
before it  discharges in the public sewer.
   CONTROL POINT.  Point of access to a course of discharge before the
discharge mixes with other discharges in the public sewer.
   GARBAGE.  Animal and vegetable wastes and residue from preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, processing, storage and sale of
food products and produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  Waste resulting from any process of industry,
manufacturing, trade, business or from the development of any natural resource,
or any mixture of the waste with water or normal domestic wastewater, or
distinct from normal domestic wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE CHARGE.  The charge made on those persons who discharge
industrial wastes into the city’s sewerage system.
   MILLIGRAMS PER LITER(mg/l).  The same as part per million and is a weight-
to-volume ratio; the milligram per liter value multiplied by the factor 8.34
shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a course, ditch, lake or other body of
surface water or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTEWATER.  Wastewater excluding industrial wastewater
discharged by a person is not sanitary sewer and in which the average
concentration of total suspended solids is not more than 200 mg/l and B.O.D. is
nor more than 200 mg/l.
   OVERLOAD.  The imposition of organic or hydraulic loading on a treatment
facility in excess of its engineered design capacity.
   PERSON.  Any individual and includes any corporation, organization,
government or governmental subdivision or agency, business trust, estate,
trust, partnership, association or other legal entity.
   pH.  The logarithm (Base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion
concentration.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  Pipe or conduit carrying wastewater or unpolluted drainage in
which owners or abutting properties shall have the use, subject to control by
the City of Canton, Texas.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A public sewer that conveys domestic wastewater or
industrial wastes or a combination of both, and into which storm water, surface
water, ground water and other unpolluted wastes are not intentionally passed.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24
concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STANDARD METHODS.  The examination and analytical procedures set forth in
the latest edition, at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater as prepared, approved and published jointly
by the American Public Health Association, the American Water Works
Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER.  A public sewer which carries storm and surface waters and
drainage and into which domestic wastewater or industrial wastes are not
intentionally passed.
   STORM WATER.  Rainfall or any other forms of precipitation.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Water and Wastewater Superintendent of the City of
Canton, Texas, or his or her duly authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS).  Solids measured in mg/l that either float on the
surface, or are in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which
are largely removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   TO DISCHARGE.  Includes to deposit, conduct, drain, emit, throw, run, allow
to seep, or otherwise release or dispose of, or to allow, permit or suffer any
of these acts or omissions.
   TRAP.  A device designed to skim, settle or otherwise remove grease, oil,
sand, flammable, wastes or other harmful substances.
   UNPOLLUTED WASTEWATER.  Water containing:
      (1)   No free or emulsified grease or oil;
      (2)   No acids or alkalis;
      (3)   No phenols producing tastes or odor in receiving waters;
      (4)   No toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state or
solution;
      (5)   No noxious or otherwise obnoxious or odorous gases;
      (6)   Not more than an insignificant amount in mg/l each of suspended
solids and B.O.D., as determined by the Texas Department of Water Resources;
and
      (7)   Color not exceeding 50 units as measured by the platinum cobalt
method of determinations as specified in Standard Methods.
   WASTE.  Rejected, unutilized or superfluous substances in liquid, gaseous or
solid form resulting from domestic, agricultural or industrial activities.
   WASTEWATER.  A combination of the water from residences, business buildings,
institutions and industrial establishments, together with any ground surface,
and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES.  Includes all facilities for collection, pumping,
treating and disposing of wastewater and industrial wastes.
   WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGE.  The charge on all users of the public sewer
system whose wastes do not exceed in strength the concentration values
established as representative of normal wastewater.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT.  Any city-owned facilities, devices and
structures used for receiving, processing and treating wastewater, industrial
waste and sludges from the sanitary sewers.
   WATER COURSE.  A natural or human-made channel in which a flow of water
occurs, either continuously or intermittently.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.02  GENERAL DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person may discharge to public sewers any waste which by itself or
by interaction with other wastes may:
      (1)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or
facilities;
      (2)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals; or
      (3)   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
plant effluent.
   (B)   All discharges shall conform to requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.03  DETRIMENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No discharge to public sewers may contain:
      (1)   Fluoride other than that contained in the public water supply;
      (2)   Chlorides in concentrations greater than 250 mg/l;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzene, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Substances causing a chemical oxygen demand (C.O.D.) in excess of
500 mg/l;
      (5)   Strong acid, iron pickling wastes, or concentrated plating
solutions whether neutralized or not;
      (6)   Fats, wax, grease or oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of
50 mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32 and 150°F (0 and 65°C);
      (7)   Objectionable or toxic substances, exerting an excessive chlorine
requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the composite
wastewater treatment works exceed the limits established by the approving
authority for the materials; or
      (8)   Obnoxious, toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in
quantities sufficient to violate the provisions of §
50.02(A) above.
   (B)   No waste, wastewater or other substance may be discharged into public
sewers which has a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 9.5, or any other corrosive
property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment and/or
personnel at the wastewater facilities.
   (C)   (1)   All wastes, wastewater or other substance containing phenols,
hydrogen sulfide or other taste-and-odor producing substances, shall conform to
concentration limits established by the approving authority.
      (2)   After treatment of the composite wastewater, concentration limits
may not exceed the requirement established by state, federal or other agencies
with jurisdiction over discharges to receiving waters.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.04  HEAVY METALS AND TOXIC MATERIALS.
   (A)   No discharges may contain concentrations of heavy metals in excess of
amounts specified in division (B) of this section.
   (B)   The maximum allowable concentrations of heavy metals in terms of
milligrams per liter (mg/l) for discharge to the sanitary sewer system, and
determined on the basis of individual sampling in accordance with Standard
Methods are:
Metal Daily Maximum mg/l Maximum 4 Day Average mg/l
Metal        Daily Maximum mg/l Maximum 4 Day Average mg/l
Arsenic      0.3                0.1
Barium       4.0                1.0
Cadmium      1.2                0.7
Chromium     7.0                4.0
Copper       4.5                2.7
Cyanide      1.9                1.0
Lead         0.6                .04
Manganese    3.0                1.0
Mercury      0.01               0.005
Nickel       4.1                2.6
Selenium     0.2                0.05
Silver       1.2                0.7
Zinc         6.0                1.0
Total metals 10.5               6.8
 
   (C)   No other heavy metals or toxic materials may be discharged into public
sewers without a permit from the approving authority specifying conditions of
pretreatment, concentrations, volumes and other applicable provisions.
   (D)   Prohibited heavy metals and toxic materials include but are not
limited to:
      (1)   Antimony;
      (2)   Beryllium;
      (3)   Bismuth;
      (4)   Cobalt;
      (5)   Molybdenum;
      (6)   Uranylion;
      (7)   Rhenium;
      (8)   Strontium;
      (9)   Tellurium;
      (10)   Herbicides;
      (11)   Fungicides; and
      (12)   Pesticides.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.05  GARBAGE.
   (A)   No person may discharge garbage into public sewers unless it is
shredded to a degree that allows all particles to be carried freely under the
flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers. Particles greater than
one-half inch in any dimension are prohibited.
   (B)   The approving authority is entitled to review and approve the
installation and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of
three-quarter-horsepower (0.76 H.P. Metric) or greater.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06  STORM WATER AND OTHER UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   No person may discharge to public sanitary sewers:
   (A)   Unpolluted storm water, surface water, ground water, roof runoff or
subsurface drainage;
   (B)   Unpolluted cooling water;
   (C)   Unpolluted industrial process waters; or
   (D)   Other unpolluted drainage.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  TEMPERATURE.
   No person may discharge liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than
150°F (65°C), or any substance which causes the temperature of the total
wastewater treatment plant influent to increase at a rate of 10°F or more per
hour, or a combined total increase of plant influent temperature to 110°F.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08  RADIOACTIVE WASTE.
   (A)   No person may discharge radioactive wastes or isotopes into public
sewers without the permission of the approving authority.
   (B)   The approving authority may establish, in compliance with applicable
state and federal regulations, regulations for discharge of radioactive wastes
into public sewers.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09  IMPAIRMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance capable of
causing:
      (1)   Obstruction to the flow in sewers:
      (2)   Interference with the operation of treatment processes or
facilities; or
      (3)   Excessive loading of treatment facilities.
   (B)   Discharges prohibited by division (A) above include, but not limited
to materials which exert or cause concentrations of:
      (1)   Inert suspended solids greater than 250 mg/l including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Fuller’s earth;
         (b)   Lime slurries; and
         (c)   Lime residues;
      (2)   Dissolved solids greater than 250 mg/l including but not limited
to:
         (a)   Sodium chloride; and
         (b)   Sodium sulfate;
      (3)   Excessive discoloration including but not limited to:
         (a)   Dye wastes; and
         (b)   Vegetable tanning solutions; or
      (4)   B.O.D., C.O.D. or chloride demand in excess or normal plant
capacity.
   (C)   No person may discharge into public sewers any substance that may:
      (1)   Deposit grease or oil in the sewer lines in such a manner as to
clog the sewers;
      (2)   Overload skimming and grease handling equipment;
      (3)   Pass to the receiving waters without being effectively treated by
existing wastewater treatment processes due to the non-amenability of the
substance to bacterial action; or
      (4)   Deleteriously affect the treatment process due to excessive
quantities.
   (D)   No person may discharge any substance into public sewers which:
      (1)   Is not amenable to treatment or reduction by the processes and
facilities employed; or
      (2)   Is amenable to treatment but not to such a degree that the
treatment plant effluent can meet the requirements of other agencies having
jurisdiction over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   The approving authority shall regulate the flow and concentration of
slugs when they may:
      (1)   Impair the treatment process;
      (2)   Cause damage to collection facilities;
      (3)   Incur treatment costs exceeding those for normal wastewater; or
      (4)   Render the plant effluent unfit for stream disposal or industrial
use.
   (F)   No person may discharge into public sewers solid or viscous substances
which may violate division (A) above if present in sufficient quantity or size,
including but not limited to:
      (1)   Ashes;
      (2)   Cinders;
      (3)   Sand;
      (4)   Mud;
      (5)   Straw;
      (6)   Shavings;
      (7)   Metal;
      (8)   Glass;
      (9)   Rags;
      (10)   Feathers;
      (11)   Tar;
      (12)   Plastics;
      (13)   Wood;
      (14)   Unground garbage;
      (15)   Whole blood;
      (16)   Paunch manure;
      (17)   Hair and fleshings;
      (18)   Entrails;
      (19)   Paper products, either whole or ground;
      (20)   Slops;
      (21)   Chemical residues;
      (22)   Paint residues; or
      (23)   Bulk solids.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.10  COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Unless exception is granted by the approving authority, the public
sanitary sewer system shall be used by all persons discharging:
      (1)   Wastewater;
      (2)   Industrial waste; or
      (3)   Polluted liquids.
   (B)   Unless authorized by the Texas Department of Water Resources, no
person may deposit or discharge any waste included in division (A) of this
section on public or private property or into or adjacent to any:
      (1)   Natural outlet;
      (2)   Watercourse;
      (3)   Storm sewers; or
      (4)   Other area within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   The approving authority shall verify, prior to discharge, that wastes
authorized to be discharged will receive suitable treatment within the
provisions of laws, regulations, ordinances, rules and orders of federal, state
and local governments.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 50.25  APPROVING AUTHORITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   If discharges or proposed discharges to public sewers may:
         (a)   Adversely affect wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or
receiving waters;
         (b)   Create a hazard to life or health; or
         (c)   Create a public nuisance.
      (2)   Then the approving authority shall require:
         (a)   Pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewer;
         (b)   Control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
         (c)   Payment to cover the cost of handling and treating the wastes.
   (B)   The approving authority is entitled to determine whether a discharge
or proposed discharge is included under division (A) of this section.
   (C)   The approving authority shall reject wastes when it determines that a
discharge or proposed discharge does not comply with the requirements of
division (A) of this section.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.26  REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   If pretreatment or control is required, the approving authority shall
review and approve design and installation of equipment and processes.
   (B)   The design and installation of equipment and processes must conform to
all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances and other laws.
   (C)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring pretreatment, flow
equalizing or other facilities shall provide and maintain the facilities in
effective operating condition at his or her own expense.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.27  REQUIREMENTS FOR TRAPS, INTERCEPTORS AND SEPARATORS.
   (A)   Traps, interceptors or separators shall be required to receive the
drainage from fixtures and equipment with grease laden waste located in food
preparation areas, such as in restaurants, hotel kitchens, hospitals, school
kitchens, bars, factory cafeterias, churches, clubs, or any commercial kitchen
site.
   (B)   Traps, interceptors or separators shall also be provided in any
location where the discharge of grease, oil, sand or any substance which would
be harmful or hazardous to the building drainage system, the public sewer or
the sewage treatment process. This includes but is not limited to: garages, car
washes, gas stations, slaughterhouses, laundries or factories where equipment
has oil or grease bearings and might empty into the building drainage system.
   (C)   Any person responsible for discharges requiring a trap, interceptor or
separator shall at his or her own expense and as required by the authority
having jurisdiction:
      (1)   Provide equipment and facilities of a type and capacity approved by
the local authority having jurisdiction;
      (2)   Locate the trap in a manner that provides ready and easy
accessibility for cleaning and inspection;
      (3)   Traps or interceptors located outside shall be constructed in such
a manner so as to exclude the entrance or surface water and storm water; and
      (4)   Traps, interceptors or separators shall be maintained in efficient
operating condition. Traps shall be maintained by the owner at his or her
expense. It is a recommended that traps be cleaned once a month. Large capacity
interceptors must be cleaned every three months. A log of trap cleaning must be
maintained on site and made available for inspection. If a trap cleaning
service is used, reports and receipts must be available for inspection and one
receipt/ticket copy must be sent to the City of Canton.
   (D)   (1)   The following criteria shall be used to determine the size of
the trap, interceptor or separator:
         (a)   Number of meals being served;
         (b)   Seating capacity;
         (c)   Volume of wastewater being discharged;
         (d)   Retention time and storage factor ratings;
         (e)   Type of foods being prepared (cooked versus uncooked);
         (f)   Disposable or washable dishware;
         (g)   Type of food service facility (fast food, sit down restaurant,
cafeteria);
         (h)   Frequency of maintenance or lack thereof; and
          (i)    Accessibility of installation.
      (2)   Small capacity traps/interceptors (50 GPM, 75GPM, 100GPM) typically
installed at the fixture or point of use shall be certified PDI-G101.
      (3)   Where an acceptable sizing formula is not used the minimum size
requirement for a large capacity type interceptor/traps (typically installed
outside) shall be 750 gallons in capacity.
      (4)   Acceptable sizing formula: Uniform Plumbing Code, Appendix H, Table
H-I sizing of Grease Interceptors;
 
Number of        Waste flow                                     Interceptor
meals per peak x rate       x Retention time x Storage factor = size
hour
 
      (5)   Factors:
         (a)   Number of meals per peak hour (Seating capacity x peak factor):
            1.   Peak factor for fast food restaurant is 1.33; and
            2.   Peak factor for all other food service is 1.00.
         (b)   Waste flow rate:
            1.   With dishwasher; six-gallon flow;
            2.   Without dishwasher; five-gallon flow;
            3.   Single service kitchen; two-gallon flow; and
            4.   Food waste disposer; one-gallon flow.
         (c)   Retention times
            1.   Commercial kitchen waste/dishwasher; 2.5 hours; and
            2.   Single service kitchen/single serving; 1.5 hours.
         (d)   Storage factors:
            1.   Fully equipped commercial kitchen; 8-hour operation=1;
            2.   Fully equipped commercial kitchen; 16-hour operation=2;
            3.   Fully equipped commercial kitchen; 24-hour operation=3; and
            4.   Single service kitchen=1.5.
      (6)   Example: A restaurant that seats 75 people is open from 4:00 p.m.
until 12:00 a.m. with a fully equipped commercial kitchen that includes a
dishwasher. Use the equation:
(Number of meals) x (waste flow) x (retention) x (storage) =  size (75) x (1) x
(6 gallons) x (2.5 hours) x (1)=1,125 gallon trap.
   (E)   Customer responsibilities:
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the customer to insure compliance with
City of Canton discharge limitations into traps, interceptors or separators;
      (2)   Hazardous wastes such as acids, strong cleaners, pesticides,
herbicides, paint, solvents or gasoline or other chemicals harmful to the
drainage system must be disposed of in a proper manner and may not be disposed
where they would go through interceptors, traps or separators. Care must be
taken in system design when commercial dishwashers are discharged through a
grease trap. Dishwashers use detergents and elevated water temperatures that
will melt grease. If the trap/interceptor is too small or too close to a
commercial dishwasher, grease may pass through the interceptor and into the
collection system;
      (3)   Use of enzymes, solvents and emulsifiers are prohibited, as they
will only change the form of grease allowing it to be carried out of the trap/
interceptor with the wastewater and deposited in the collection system;
      (4)   Where the utilities must clean associated public sewers caused by
inappropriate operation or maintenance, inadequate design or installation, or
inappropriate alteration of a grease trap, interceptor or separator, costs of
such cleaning shall be billed to the user; and
      (5)   In a case where several users are discharging into the same sewer
line, all the users shall be equally liable except where a user provides
written proof his discharge could not have been a contributing factor.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.28  REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING SEWERS.
   Any person responsible for discharges through a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall at his or her own expense and as required by the
approving authority:
   (A)   Install a safe, accessible control manhole;
   (B)   Install meters and other appurtenances to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of the waste;
   (C)   Install safety equipment and facilities (ventilation, steps and the
like) where needed; and
   (D)   Maintain the equipment and facilities.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.29  SAMPLING AND TESTING.
   (A)   Sampling shall be conducted according to approved and accepted
methods, reflecting the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and
determining the existence of hazards to health, life, limb and property. (Note:
The particular analysis involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite
sample from all outfalls of a premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, B.O.D. and suspended
solids analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls. Where
applicable, 16-hour, eight-hour or some other period may be required. Periodic
grab samples are used to determine pH, oil and grease.)
   (B)   Examination and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
required by the ordinance shall be:
      (1)   Conducted in accordance with the latest edition of Standard
Methods; and
      (2)   Determined from suitable samples taken at the control manhole
provided or other control point authorized by the approving authority.
   (C)   B.O.D. and suspended solids shall be determined from composite
samples, except to detect unauthorized discharges.
   (D)   The approving authority shall determine which users or classes of
users may contribute wastewater which is a greater strength than normal
domestic wastewater. All users or classes of users so identified shall be
sampled for flow; B.O.D., TSS and pH at least annually.
   (E)   The city may select an independent firm or laboratory to determine
flow, B.O.D. and suspended solids, if necessary. Flow may alternately be
determined by water meter measurements if no other flow device is available and
no other source of raw water is used.
   (F)   The city is entitled to select the time of sampling at its sole
discretion so long as at least annual samples are taken.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.30  USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Persons making discharges of industrial waste into the City of Canton
System shall pay a charge to cover all costs of collection and treatment.
   (B)   When discharges of any waste into the City of Canton system are
approved by the approving authority, the city or its authorized representative
shall enter into an agreement or arrangement providing:
      (1)   Terms of acceptance by the city;
      (2)   Payment by the person making the discharge, in accordance with the
user charge system as established by the approving authority;
      (3)   Sewer connection procedures and requirements shall be in accordance
with the Uniform Plumbing Code as promulgated by the International Association
of Plumbing and Mechanical Officials;
      (4)   A sewer application approved with connection fee paid; and
      (5)   Construction of sewer connections shall be approved by City
Inspectors prior to sewer use.
   (C)   If the volume or character of the waste to be treated by the city
requires that wastewater collection, treatment or other disposal facilities of
the city be improved, expanded or enlarged in order to treat the waste, then
prior to approval, the city and the person making the discharge shall enter
into an agreement which provides that the discharger pay in full all added cost
the city may incur due to the acceptance of the waste.
   (D)   The agreement entered into pursuant to division (B) above shall
include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Amortization of all capital outlay for collecting and treating the
waste, including new capital outlay and the proportionate part of the value of
the existing system used in handling and treating the waste; and
      (2)   Operation and maintenance costs including salaries and wages, power
costs, costs of chemicals and supplies, proper allowances for maintenance,
depreciation, overhead and office expense.
   (E)   If it is determined by the approving authority that the volume or
character of the waste to be treated by the city does not require that
wastewater collection, treatment or other disposal facilities of the city be
improved, expanded or enlarged in order to treat the waste, then the user
charge shall consist of a base charge plus a surcharge to distribute operation
and maintenance costs and bond service costs to each user in proportion to his
contribution to the total wastewater loading of the treatment plant. The base
charge shall be equivalent to the minimum basic charge for commercial sewer.
The surcharge will be levied when B.O.D. and total suspended solids (T.S.S.)
concentrations from a user exceed a base level of 500 mg/l for each, according
to the following formula:
 
Cs = (0.005 B + 0.004 S) Vu
Where
Cs= Surcharge, in dollars, for wastewater of excessive concentrations
B=Concentration of B.O.D., in mg/l, from a user in excess of 500 mg/l
S=Concentration of T.S.S., in mg/l, from a user in excess of 500 mg/l
Vu= Volume of wastewater from a user, in thousand gallons
 
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.31  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   A person discharging waste into public sewers prior to the effective date of
this chapter may continue without penalty so long as they:
   (A)   Do not increase the quantity or decrease the quality of discharge
without permission of the approving authority:
   (B)   Have discharged the waste at least 12 months prior to the effective
date of this chapter; and
   (C)   Apply for and are granted a permit no later than 180 days after the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.32  CONDITIONS OR PERMITS.
   (A)   The city may grant a permit to discharge to persons meeting all
requirements of the savings clause provided that the person:
      (1)   Submits an application within 180 days after the effective date of
this chapter on forms supplied by the approving authority;
      (2)   Secures approval by the approving authority of plans and
specifications for the pretreatment facilities when required; and
      (3)   Has complied with all requirements for agreements or arrangements
including but not limited to, provisions for:
         (a)   Payment of charges:
         (b)   Installation and operation of the facilities and of pretreatment
facilities; and
         (c)   Sampling and analysis to determine quantity and strength; and
      (4)   Provides a sampling point subject to the provisions of this chapter
and approval of the approving authority.
   (B)   A person applying for a new discharge shall:
      (1)   Meet all conditions of division (A) of this section; and
      (2)   Secure a permit prior to discharging any waste.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.33  POWER TO ENTER PROPERTY.
   (A)   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter any public
or private property at any reasonable time for the purpose of enforcing this
chapter.
   (B)   Anyone acting under this authority shall observe the establishment’s
rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security and fire protection.
   (C)   Except when caused by negligence or failure of person(s) to maintain
safe conditions, the city shall indemnify the person(s) against loss or damage
to their property by city employees and against liability claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the person(s) and
growing out of the sampling operation.
   (D)   The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification are entitled to enter all private
properties through which the city holds a negotiated easement for the purposes
of:
      (1)   Inspection, observation, measurement, sampling or repair;
      (2)   Maintenance of any portion of the sewage lying within the
easements; and
      (3)   Conducting any other authorized activity.
   (E)   No person acting under authority of this provision may inquire into
any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper
or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and
source of discharge to the public sewers.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34  AUTHORITY TO DISCONNECT SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may terminate water and wastewater disposal service and
disconnect an industrial customer from the system when:
      (1)   Acids or chemicals which may damage the sewer lines or treatment
process are released to the sewer potentially causing accelerated deterioration
of these structures or interfering with proper conveyance and treatment of
wastewater;
      (2)   A governmental agency informs the city that the effluent from the
wastewater treatment plant is no longer of a quality permitted for discharge to
a watercourse, and it is found that the customer is delivering wastewater to
the city’s system that cannot be sufficiently treated or requires treatment
that is not provided by the city as normal domestic treatment; or
      (3)   The customer:
         (a)   Discharges waste or wastewater that is in violation of the
permit issued by the approving authority;
         (b)   Discharges wastewater at an uncontrolled variable rate in
sufficient quantity to cause an imbalance in the wastewater treatment system;
         (c)   Fails to pay monthly bills for water and sanitary sewer services
when due; or
         (d)   Repeats a discharge of prohibited wastes to public sewers.
   (B)   If service is disconnected pursuant to division (A)(2) of this
section, the city shall:
      (1)   Disconnect the customer;
      (2)   Supply the customer with the governmental agency’s report and
provide the customer with all pertinent information; and
      (3)   Continue disconnection until such time as the customer provides
pretreatment/additional pretreatment or other facilities designed to remove the
objectionable characteristics from his or her wastes.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.35  NOTICE.
   The city shall serve persons discharging in violation of this chapter with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for satisfactory compliance.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.36  CONTINUING PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person may continue discharging in violation of this chapter beyond the
time limit provided in the notice.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.37  FAILURE TO PAY.
   In addition to sanctions provided for by this chapter, the city is entitled
to exercise sanctions provided for by the other ordinances of the city for
failure to pay the bill for water and sanitary sewer service when due.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   A person who makes or allows a prohibited discharge is guilty of a
misdemeanor and punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 for each act of
violation, and each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In addition to proceeding under authority of division (A)(1) above,
the city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies to which
it is entitled under authority of statues or other ordinances against a person
continuing prohibited discharges.
   (B)   Penalty for criminal mischief. The city may pursue all criminal and
civil remedies to which it is entitled under authority of statutes and
ordinances against a person negligently, willfully or maliciously causing loss
by tampering with or destroying public sewers or treatment facilities.
(Ord. 2007-02, passed 2-20-2007)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER AND SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
Water and Wastewater; Rates, Deposits, Billing and Tap Fees
   
51.01   Tap fees
   
51.02   Utility deposits
   
51.03   Sewer service monthly charge
   
51.04   Water service monthly charges
   
51.05   Billing procedure
Sewer; Septic Tanks
   
51.20   Charges for hauled-in household and portable sewage; permit fee
WATER AND WASTEWATER; RATES, DEPOSITS, BILLING AND TAP FEES
§ 51.01  TAP FEES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY INSTALLATION.  When all work is performed by city crews in making
connections to city mains.
      STANDARD SIZE TAP.  Water taps not exceeding five-eighths-inch by three-
quarter-inch meter and sewer taps not exceeding four inches, with any larger
taps being billed according to the cost of installation to the city, as
determined by the City Manager.
   (B)   There shall be collected a fee for each tap made on either the city
water or sewer system, which amount shall be due and payable in advance, in
accordance with the schedule herein:
Water Fees Sewer Fees
Water Fees                               Sewer Fees
Water tap; 3/4-inch   $450               Sewer tap; 4-inch  $400
Water tap; 1-inch     $600               Sewer tap; 4-inch  $500
                                         commercial
Water tap; 1-1/2-inch $850               Sewer tap; over 4- To be installed by
                                         inch               owner
Water tap;  2-inch   1,250              Street cut         $500
Water tap;            $500                                  
commercial; 3/4-inch
Water tap;
commercial; 1-inch    1,250                                  
and up
Meter; 3/4-inch       $100                                  
Meter; 1-inch         $250                                  
Meter; 1-1/2-inch     $350                                  
Meter- 2-inch         $450                                  
Meter box; 3/4-inch   $75                                   
to 1-inch
Meter box; 1-1/2-inch $150                                  
to 2-inch
Taps, meters and      To be installed by                    
vaults over 2-inch    owner
Taps that exceed 50   Cost of labor and                     
linear foot           materials
 
(Ord. 92-9, passed 10-20-1992; Ord. 2008-17, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 51.02  UTILITY DEPOSITS.
   (A)   There is hereby established a utility security deposit to be required
from each utility patron to be paid to the city prior to the connection of city
utility services to that patron.
   (B)   The utility security deposit shall be for all services. By definition,
all services shall mean water, sanitary sewer and garbage collection, where the
city can feasibly provide these services.
   (C)   The amount of the deposit for utility patrons shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential:
         (a)   Property owners: $50; and
         (b)   Renters: $50.
      (2)   Commercial Type I: $100;
      (3)   Commercial Type II: All large volume users, restaurants,
washaterias and car washes: $100; and
      (4)   Deposit for a two and one-half hydrant: $950.
   (D)   Upon termination of services where a utility security deposit has been
provided, the deposit shall first be applied to all outstanding statements for
utility services which have been provided and then any portion remaining shall
be refunded to the utility patron.
(Ord. 92-9, passed 10-20-1992; Ord. 2008-17, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 51.03  SEWER SERVICE MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   The following monthly rates and charges are hereby fixed and shall be
charged and collected by the city for sewer services and other services
incidental thereto.
Wastewater Rates Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
Wastewater Rates      Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
Residential                              
   0 to 1,500 gallo$9.50              $26.25
   Over 1,500 gallo$1.42 per thousand $1.42 per thousand
   No maximum
Commercial
   0 to 1,500 gallo$13.65             $26.25
   Over 1,500 gallo$1.42 per thousand $1.42 per thousand
   No maximum
 
   (B)   For the purposes of computing the monthly service charge provided
above, each sanitary sewer patron of the city shall be charged a sewer service
fee for the number of gallons equal to the number of gallons of water used by
such patron as metered by the city for the same metering cycle.
(Ord. 92-9, passed 10-20-1992; Ord. 2007-27, passed 9-18-2007; Ord. 2007-34,
passed 10-16-2007; Ord. 2008-14, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 51.04  WATER SERVICE MONTHLY CHARGES.
   The following monthly rates and charges are hereby fixed and shall be
charged and collected by the city for water services and other services
incidental thereto.
Water Rates Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
Water Rates             Inside City Limits Outside City Limits
Residential
0 to 750 gallons        $10                $26.52
750 to 2,500 gallons    $4.60 per 1,000    $4.60 per 1,000
2,501 to 5,000 gallons  $4.65 per 1,000    $4.65 per 1,000
5,001 to 25,000 gallons $4.70 per 1,000    $4.70 per 1,000
25,001 to 100,000       $4.75 per 1,000    $4.75 per 1,000
Over 100,000 gallons    $4.80 per 1,000    $4.80 per 1,000
Commercial                                 
0 to 750 gallons        $14.50             $26.25
750 to 2,500 gallons    $4.60 per 1,000    $4.60 per 1,000
2,501 to 5,000 gallons  $4.65 per 1,000    $4.65 per 1,000
5,001 to 25,000 gallons $4.70 per 1,000    $4.70 per 1,000
25,001 to 100,000       $4.75 per 1,000    $4.75 per 1,000
Over 100,000 gallons    $4.80 per 1,000    $4.80 per 1,000
 
(Ord. 2006-22, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2007-27, passed 9-18-2007; Ord. 2007-34,
passed 10-16-2007; Ord. 2008-14, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 51.05  BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When due and payable; discontinuance. All city utility bills, whether
for water, sewer or services incidental thereto, or all of them, are due and
payable no later than the tenth day of the calendar month next following the
calendar month in which the services are provided. If a patron’s utility bill
with the city is not paid in full by that date, the city shall discontinue all
services to the patron, and shall immediately discontinue water service to the
patron by turning the valve on the water meter for the patron to a closed
position and securing the valve in that position in such manner as may be
deemed sufficient by the city or its employees. It shall be unlawful for any
person other than a city employee acting under the supervision and direction of
the appropriate department head to in any manner tamper with or disturb any
valve or other shut-off apparatus attached to or in any manner connected with a
city water line or any meter attached to such line. For good cause shown, the
City Manager may allow utility patrons reasonable extensions on the payment of
delinquent utility bills.
   (B)   Application of deposit; new deposit. Where a utility patron has a
utility statement which is delinquent for a period exceeding 60 days, the city
shall discontinue all utility services and apply the utility security deposit
to the outstanding statements. Thereafter a utility patron shall be required to
provide a utility security deposit equal to one and one-half times that
required for a person who has maintained their utility account on a current
basis and the city will reconnect utility services to the patron.
   (C)   Challenge to accuracy of bill.
      (1)   Any utility patron who wishes to dispute the accuracy of the
charges or services reflected on any city utility bill addressed to him or her
shall have the right to request a hearing with respect to the bill before the
City Manager, who shall have the authority to rectify any errors in the bill at
the hearing.
      (2)   Any such hearing must be requested in writing, which must be
delivered to the City Hall, with the hearing to be held by the end of the third
business day following the date on which the request for hearing is filed with
the City Secretary.
      (3)   Any termination of service proposed under the bill being disputed
shall be suspended until such time as the hearing has been conducted and the
termination by the City Manager is announced to the patron in question. The
request for a hearing must be filed no later than the close of business on the
tenth day of the calendar month next following the calendar month in which the
services in question were provided.
   (D)   Reconnection procedure; fee.
      (1)   Once utility services have been discontinued as provided above,
none of the services shall be recontinued or reconnected unless and until such
time as the patron in question has paid in full all delinquent utility bills
owed to the city.
      (2)   Once water service has been disconnected as provided above, it
shall not be reconnected unless and until the patron in question has restored
his or her security deposit to the amount required above and has paid a
reconnection fee in the amount of $25 per utility reconnected.
(Ord. 92-9, passed 10-20-1992; Ord. 2008-17, passed 9-2-2008)
SEWER; SEPTIC TANKS
§ 51.20  CHARGES FOR HAULED-IN HOUSEHOLD AND PORTABLE SEWAGE; PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Annual permit.  Upon application, an annual permit for the disposal of
hauled-in waste shall be issued by the Utility Billing Department. A permit fee
of $30 per year shall be charged for each vehicle transporting household
septage to the City’s Wastewater Treatment Plant for disposal.
      (1)   A permit issued under authority of this section may not be sold,
assigned or otherwise transferred nor inure to the benefit of any transporter
other than the original permittee.
      (2)   Each applicant shall provide the following information on the
application:
         (a)   Name (owner and business);
         (b)   Address (residence and business);
         (c)   Owner’s social security number;
         (d)   Telephone number (residence, business, emergency);
         (e)   Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) Registration
Number;
         (f)   The vehicle identification number (VIN) of each vehicle to be
permitted;
         (g)   The license number of each vehicle to be permitted;
         (h)   Year, make, and model of each vehicle to be permitted; and
          (i)    Such other information or data that the operator may deem
necessary.
   (B)   Charges per load.  The following charges shall be made for each load
of hauled-in waste in addition to the annual permit fee.
      (1)   Treatment choice of:
         (a)   Ten dollars per 100 gallons of tank capacity of household and
portable septage only; no grease traps, sand traps, car wash traps, and/or
sedimentation tanks, etc.
         (b)   Ten dollars per 100 gallons of a mutually agreed to metering
system provided and maintained by the septage hauler.
         (c)   Trip tickets for each load of septage disposed at the City’s
Wastewater Treatment Plant will be forwarded to the Utility Department for
billing. A statement will be rendered within the first two weeks of the month.
(Ord. 2001-01, passed 2-20-2001; Ord. passed 9-19-2005; Ord. 2008-05, passed 3-
18-2008)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER CONSERVATION PLAN
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   General provisions
Water Conservation Plan
   
52.15   Declaration of policy, purpose and intent
   
52.16   Utility profile
   
52.17   Water conservation goals
   
52.18   Metering devices
   
52.19   Universal metering
   
52.20   Measures to determine and control unaccounted for uses of water
   
52.21   Water conservation public education and information program
   
52.22   Water rate structure
   
52.23   Enforcement procedure and plan adoption
   
52.24   Coordination with the regional water planning group
   
52.25   Program for leak detection, repair and water loss accounting
   
52.26   Record management system
   
52.27   Plan review and update
   
52.28   Severability
   
52.29   Drought contingency plan
Drought Contingency Plan
   
52.40   Declaration of policy, purpose, and intent
   
52.41   Public involvement
   
52.42   Public education
   
52.43   Coordination with regional water planning groups
   
52.44   Authorization
   
52.45   Application
   
52.46   Definitions
   
52.47   Criteria for initiation and termination of drought response stages
   
52.48   Drought response stages
   
52.49   Enforcement
   
52.50   Variances
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The City Council hereby approves and adopts as the city’s water
conservation plan, the water conservation/drought contingency plan attached
hereto as §§
52.16 through
52.51 below. The city commits to implement the program according to the
procedures set forth in the adopted plan.
   (B)   The city shall report to the Texas Water Development Board annually on
the implementation and effectiveness of the plan in accordance with the outline
set forth in the plan.
   (C)   In regards to implementation and enforcement of the conservation/
drought contingency plan, the City Manager is designated as the official
responsible for implementation and enforcement, and the following guidelines
are adopted:
      (1)   Mild drought occurs when:
         (a)   Average daily water consumption reaches 85% of production
capacity;
         (b)   Consumption (85%) has existed for a period of three days; and
         (c)   Weather conditions are to be considered in drought
classification determination. Predicted long, hot or dry periods are to be
considered in impact analysis.
      (2)   Moderate drought conditions are reached when:
         (a)   Average daily water consumption reaches 90% of rated production
capacity for a three-day period;
         (b)   Weather conditions indicate mild drought will exist five days or
more;
         (c)   One ground storage tank or one clear well is taken out of
service during mild drought;
         (d)   Storage capacity (water level) is not being maintained during
period of 100% rated production period; and
         (e)   Existence of any preceding conditions listed above for a
duration of 36 hours.
      (3)   Severe drought classification is reached when:
         (a)   Average daily water consumption reaches 100% of production
capacity for a 24-hour period;
         (b)   Average daily water consumption will not enable storage levels
to be maintained;
         (c)   System demand exceeds available high service pump capacity;
         (d)   Any two conditions listed in moderate drought classification
occurs for a 24-hour period;
         (e)   Water system is contaminated either accidentally or
intentionally. Severe condition is reached immediately upon detection; and
         (f)   Water system fails - from acts of God (tornados, hurricanes) or
humans. Severe condition is reached immediately upon detection.
      (4)   In the event severe classification conditions persist (division (C)
(3) above) for an extended period of time, the district may ration water usage
and/or terminate service to selected users of the system in accordance with the
following sequence:
         (a)   Recreational users;
         (b)   Residential users;
         (c)   Commercial users;
         (d)   Industrial users;
         (e)   School users; and
         (f)   Hospital, public health and safety facilities.
   (D)   Users of city water except for the city, that do not comply with
division (C) above shall be subject to a penalty and fine of not less than $10
per day nor more than $200 per day for each day of non-compliance and/or
disconnection or discontinuance of water services to the users by the city.
   (E)   The City Council finds and declares that a sufficient written notice
of the date, hour, place and subject of the meeting of the City Council was
posted at a designated place convenient to the public at the City Hall for the
time required by law preceding this meeting and that the place of posting was
readily accessible at all times to the general public that all of the foregoing
was done as required by law; and that this meeting has been open to the public
as required by law at all times during which this chapter and the subject
matter thereof has been discussed, considered and formally acted upon. The City
Council further rectifies, approves and confirms the written notice and the
contents and posting thereof.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 1-18-1994)
WATER CONSERVATION PLAN
§ 52.15  DECLARATION OF POLICY, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of the water conservation plan is to promote the wise and
responsible use of water by:
   (A)   Implementing structural programs that result in quantifiable water
conservation results;
   (B)   Developing, maintaining, and enforcing water conservation policies and
ordinances; and
   (C)   Supporting public education programs that educate customers about
water and wastewater facilities operations, water quantity and quality, and
water conservation.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 52.16  UTILITY PROFILE.
   (A)   See Exhibit 1 to Ordinance 2019-8 for the Utility Profile as required
by 30 TAC § 288.2(a)(1)A.  Exhibit 1 is incorporated by reference as if fully
set forth herein.
   (B)   Population. Canton's current population is estimated to be 3,581. It
is projected to be 3,963 by 2020.
   (C)   Customer data and water use data.  Canton's water customers are
categorized as either residential (80%), or commercial (20%). Schools are
categorized as commercial.
   (D)   Water supply system data. Canton's primary source of water is from the
Mill Creek Reservoir located in the City of Canton. The surface water treatment
plant was constructed in 1986 and has a design capacity of 2.17 MGD. Canton has
three groundwater wells. Well No. 4 has a capacity of 180 GPM and is located on
State Highway 19 approximately 800 feet south of State Highway 243. Well No. 5
has a capacity of 365 GPM and is located at the Surface Water Treatment Plant
on Arnold Paul Rd. Well No. 6 has a capacity of 176 GPM and is located behind
the police station on State Highway 64 E.
   (E)   Wastewater system data.  Canton's wastewater system serves
approximately 85% of the water system customers. The wastewater treatment plant
process is activated sludge operated in the single stage nitrification mode and
has a design capacity of 1.3 MGD.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2019-8, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 52.17  WATER CONSERVATION GOALS.
   The goals of the water conservation plan are to reduce the per capita
consumption of water. The  five-year goal is a 2.5% reduction in per capita
water consumption (or 195 gpcd). The ten-year goal is a 5% reduction in the per
capita consumption of water (or 190 gpcd). The five- and ten-year water
conservation targets shall be addressed by any wholesale water supply contract
in the future, as required by 30 TAC § 288.2(2)C.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2019-8, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 52.18  METERING DEVICES.
   The City of Canton has a master meter at the surface water treatment plant
and master meters in place at each of the well heads to measure and account for
the amount of water diverted from the source of supply. It is Canton's policy
to purchase meters with an accuracy of plus or minus 5.0% as required by 30 TAC
§ 288.2(a)(l)D.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 52.19  UNIVERSAL METERING.
   It is Canton's policy to individually meter all water usage, except for fire
protection, including all new construction within the city limits. Canton's
meter replacement and repair schedule is as follows:
 
Meter Type           Replacement/Rebuild Period
Master meter         Meters are tested/calibrated at least annually and
                     replaced/rebuilt as necessary
Two-inch and larger  Meters are tested at least annually and replaced/rebuilt
                     as necessary
One-inch and smaller Meters are tested at least every ten years and replaced/
                     rebuilt as necessary
 
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 52.20  MEASURES TO DETERMINE AND CONTROL UNACCOUNTED FOR USES OF WATER.
   It is Canton's policy to investigate customer complaints of low pressure and
possible leaks, to visually inspect suspected leaks and to track water delivery
to customers. The City of Canton has a leak detection, repair and water loss
accounting program as described in §
52.25.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 52.21  WATER CONSERVATION PUBLIC EDUCATION AND INFORMATION PROGRAM.
   As part of the city's effort to educate the public regarding water
conservation the city will mail the water conservation flyer with the water
bill once a year (see Exhibit 2 to Ordinance 2019-8, which Exhibit is
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein).
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2019-8, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 52.22 WATER RATE STRUCTURE.
   The City of Canton has adopted a water rate structure which is cost-based
and which does not encourage the excessive use of water. The current rate
structure has been included as Exhibit 3 to Ordinance 2019-8, which Exhibit is
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2019-8, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 52.23  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE AND PLAN ADOPTION.
   The City of Canton has jurisdiction for enforcement by ordinance power. The
City of Canton ordinance indicating official adoption of the water conservation
plan is included in Exhibit 4 to Ordinance 2019-8, which Exhibit is
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2019-8, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 52.24  COORDINATION WITH THE REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUP.
   The service area of the City of Canton is located within the Northeast Texas
Region (Region D) and the City of Canton has provided a copy of the water
conservation plan to the Northeast Texas Region.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 52.25  PROGRAM FOR LEAK DETECTION, REPAIR AND WATER LOSS ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   Leak detection and repair.  City crews and personnel will look for and
report evidence of leaks in the water distribution system. Meter readers are
asked to watch for and report signs of illegal connections, so they can be
addressed quickly. Areas of the water distribution system in which numerous
leaks and line breaks occur are targeted for replacement as funds are
available.
   (B)   Water loss accounting.  The City of Canton staff compares monthly
master meter measurements with monthly water usage based on meter readings
(i.e. water sales) to identify water loss. This information is used to evaluate
the integrity of the water distribution system.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 52.26  RECORD MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.
   The City of Canton maintains current records of the water pumped, water
sales, and water losses which allows for the segregation of water sales and
uses into the following user classes: residential and commercial.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2019-8, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 52.27  PLAN REVIEW AND UPDATE.
   The City of Canton will review and update its water conservation plan, as
appropriate, based on an assessment of previous five-year and ten-year targets
and any other new or updated information from the regional water planning
district.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009)
§ 52.28  SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby to be the intention of Canton that the sections, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses, and phrases of this plan are severable and if any phrase,
clause, sentence, paragraph or section shall be declared unconstitutional by
the valid judgement or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction, such
unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the remaining phrases, clauses,
sentences, paragraphs or sections of this plan, since the same would not have
been enacted by Canton without the incorporation into this plan of any
unconstitutional phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph, or section.
(Ord. 2019-8, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 52.29  DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   The City of Canton has adopted a Drought Contingency Plan that allows the
city to restrict water use during droughts or other uncontrollable
circumstances. The plan is triggered by Mill Creek lake levels or by major
equipment failure to any of the city's water production facilities. The updated
plan  is set forth in §§
52.40 through
52.50.
(Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2019-8, passed 5-21-2019)
DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
§ 52.40  DECLARATION OF POLICY, PURPOSE, AND INTENT.
   (A)   In order to conserve the available water supply and protect the
integrity of water supply facilities, with particular regard for domestic water
use, sanitation, and fire protection, and to protect and preserve public
health, welfare, and safety and minimize the adverse impacts of water supply
shortage or other water supply emergency conditions, the City of Canton hereby
adopts the following regulations and restrictions on the delivery and
consumption or water.
   (B)   Water uses regulated or prohibited under this drought contingency plan
(the Plan) are considered to be non-essential and continuation of such uses
during times of water shortage and other emergency water supply conditions are
deemed to constitute a waste of water which subjects the offender(s) to
penalties as defined in §
52.99.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.41  PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT.
   Opportunity for the public to provide input into the preparation of the Plan
was provided by the city by means of public notice of a public meeting.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)
§ 52.42  PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The city will periodically provide the public with information about the
Plan, including information about the conditions under which each stage of the
Plan is to be initiated or terminated and the drought response measures to be
implemented in each stage. This information will be provided by means of web
page, handouts and pamphlets.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)
§ 52.43  COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUPS.
   The service area of the city is located within the Northeast Texas Region
(Region D) and the city has provided a copy of this Plan to the Northeast Texas
Region.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)
§ 52.44  AUTHORIZATION.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby authorized and directed to
implement the applicable provisions of the Plan upon determination that such
implementation is necessary to protect public health, safety, and welfare. The
City Manager or his or her designee shall have the authority to initiate or
terminate drought or other water supply emergency response measures as
described in the Plan.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)
§ 52.45  APPLICATION.
   The provisions of the Plan shall apply to all persons, customers, and
property utilizing water provided by the city. The terms PERSON and/or CUSTOMER
as used in the Plan include individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, and all other legal entities.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)
§ 52.46  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE.  Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such
as fountains, reflecting pools, and water gardens.
   COMMERCIAL and INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE.  Water use which is integral to the
operations of commercial and non-profit establishments and governmental
entities such as retail establishments, hotels and motels, restaurants, and
office buildings.
   CONSERVATION.  Those practices, techniques, and technologies that reduce the
consumption of water, reduce the loss or waste of water, improve the efficiency
in the use of water or increase the recycling and reuse of water so that a
supply is conserved and made available for future or alternative uses.
   CUSTOMER.  Any person, company, or organization using water supplied by the
city.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE.  Water use for personal needs or for household or
sanitary purposes such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation, or
for cleaning a residence, business, industry, or institution.
   EVEN NUMBER ADDRESS.  Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route
numbers ending in 0, 2, 4, 6 or 8, and locations without addresses.
   INDUSTRIAL WATER USE.  The use of water in processes designed to convert
materials of lower value into forms having greater usability and value.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION USE.  Water used for the irrigation and maintenance of
landscaped areas, whether publicly or privately owned, including residential
and commercial lawns, gardens, golf courses, parks, and rights-of-way and
medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE.  Water uses that are not essential nor required for
the protection of public health, safety, and welfare, including:
      (1)   Irrigation of landscape areas, including parks, athletic fields,
and golf courses, except otherwise provided under the Plan;
      (2)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle;
      (3)   Use of water to wash down any sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
      (4)   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire protection;
      (5)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street;
      (6)   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools or jacuzzi-type pools;
      (7)   Use of water in a fountain or pond for aesthetic or scenic purposes
except where necessary to support aquatic life;
      (8)   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable period
after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s); and
      (9)   Use of water from hydrants for construction purposes or any other
purposes other than fire fighting.
   ODD NUMBERED ADDRESS.  Street addresses, box numbers, or rural postal route
numbers ending in 1, 3, 5, 7, or 9.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)
§ 52.47  CRITERIA FOR INITIATION AND TERMINATION OF DROUGHT RESPONSE STAGES.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall monitor Mill Creek lake
levels on a daily basis and shall determine when conditions warrant initiation
or termination of each stage of the Plan. Public notification of the initiation
or termination of drought response stages shall be by means of publication in a
newspaper of general circulation.
   (B)   The triggering criteria described below are based on historic monthly
water usage and worst case lake evaporation records.
      (1)   Stage 1 – Mild water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be requested to
voluntarily conserve water and adhere to the prescribed restrictions on certain
water uses, defined in §
52.46, when the lake level drops below the elevation 490.8 feet.
         (b)   Requirements for termination.  Stage 1 of the Plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of seven consecutive days.
      (2)   Stage 2 – Moderate water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water
uses defined in §
52.46 when the lake level drops below the elevation 489.6 feet.
         (b)   Requirements for termination.  Stage 2 of the Plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of seven consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 2,
Stage 1 becomes operative.
      (3)   Stage 3 – Severe water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water
uses for Stage 3 of the Plan when the lake level drops below elevation 488.6
feet.
         (b)   Requirements for termination.  Stage 3 of the Plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of seven consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 3,
Stage 2 becomes operative.
      (4)   Stage 4 – Critical water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water
uses for Stage 4 of the Plan when the lake level drops below the elevation
487.7 feet.
         (b)   Requirements for termination.  Stage 4 of the Plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of seven consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 4,
Stage 3 becomes operative.
      (5)   Stage 5 – Emergency water shortage conditions.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions for Stage 5 of the Plan when the
City Manager or his or her designee determines that a water supply emergency
exists based on:
            1.   Major water line breaks or pump or system failures occur,
which cause unprecedented loss of capability to provide water service; or
            2.   Natural or man-made contamination of the water supply source
(s).
         (b)   Requirements for termination.  Stage 5 of the Plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to
exist for a period of seven consecutive days.
      (6)   Stage 6 – Water rationing.
         (a)   Requirements for initiation.  Customers shall be required to
comply with the water allocation plan prescribed in §
52.48(F) of this subchapter and comply with the requirements and restrictions
for Stage 5 of the Plan when the City Manager or his or her designee determines
that the water shortage conditions threaten public health, safety and welfare.
         (b)   Requirements for termination.  Water rationing may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of seven consecutive days.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.48  DROUGHT RESPONSE STAGES.
   The City Manager or his or her designee shall monitor lake levels on a daily
basis and, in accordance with the triggering criteria set forth in §
52.47, shall determine that a mild, moderate, severe, critical, or emergency
condition exists and shall implement the following actions upon publication of
notice in a newspaper of general circulation:
   (A)   Stage 1 response – Mild water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Goal: Achieve a voluntary 10% reduction in daily water use.
      (2)   Voluntary water use restrictions.
         (a)   Water customers are requested to voluntarily limit the
irrigation of landscaped areas to even numbered days for customers with a
street address ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6, or 8), and odd numbered
days for water customers with a street address ending in an odd number (1, 3,
5, 7, or 9), and to irrigate landscapes only between the hours of midnight and
10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. to midnight on designated watering days.
         (b)   All operators of the city shall adhere to water use restrictions
prescribed for Stage 2 of the Plan.
         (c)   Water customers are requested to practice water conservation and
to minimize or discontinue water use for non-essential purposes.
   (B)   Stage 2 response – Moderate water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Goal:
         (a)   Reduce daily water usage to 1.0 MGD. (Including the Surface
Water Treatment Plant and Water Wells 1 and 2). 
         (b)   Reduce raw water intake consumption at the Surface Water Plant
to 0.70 MGD.
      (2)   Water use restrictions.  Under threat of penalty for violation, the
following water use restrictions shall apply to all persons:
         (a)   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to even numbered
days for customers with a street address ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6,
or 8), and odd numbered days for water customers with a street address ending
in an odd number (1, 3, 5, 7, or 9), and to irrigate landscapes only between
the hours of midnight and 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. to midnight on designated
watering days. However, irrigation of landscaped areas is permitted at anytime
if it is by means of a hand-held hose, a faucet filled bucket or a watering can
of five gallons or less, or drip irrigation system.
         (b)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except on designated watering
days between the hours of midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and
midnight. Such washing, when allowed, shall be done with a hand-held bucket or
a hand-held hose equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle for quick rinses.
Vehicle washing may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station. Further, such washing may be
exempted from these regulations if the health, safety, and welfare of the
public is contingent upon frequent vehicle cleansing, such as garbage trucks
and vehicles used to transport food and perishables.
         (c)   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools, wading pools, or Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited except on
designated watering days between the hours of midnight and 10:00 a.m. and
between 8:00 p.m. and midnight.
         (d)   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
         (e)   Use of water from hydrants shall be limited to fire fighting,
related activities, or other activities necessary to maintain public health,
safety, and welfare, except that use of water designated for fire hydrants for
construction purposes may be allowed under special permit from the city.
         (f)   Use of water for the irrigation of golf course greens, tees, and
fairways is prohibited except on designated watering days between the hours of
midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and midnight. However, if the
golf course utilizes a water source other than potable water that is provided
by the city, the facility shall not be subject to these regulations.
         (g)   The following uses of water are defined as non-essential and are
prohibited:
            1.   Wash down of any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots,
tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
            2.   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Use of water for dust control;
            4.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street; and
            5.   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable
period after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s).
   (C)   Stage 3 response - Severe water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Goal:
         (a)   Reduce daily water usage to 0.70 MGD. (Including the Surface
Water Treatment Plant and Water Wells 1 and 2). 
         (b)   Reduce raw water intake consumption at the Surface Water Plant
to 0.40 MGD.
      (2)   Water use restrictions.  All requirements of Stage 2 shall remain
in effect during Stage 3 except:
         (a)   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to odd-even
watering days between the hours of midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00
p.m. and midnight.
         (b)   The watering of golf course tees is prohibited unless the golf
course utilizes a water source other than potable water provided by the city.
         (c)   The use of water for construction purposes from designated fire
hydrants under special permit is to be discontinued.
         (d)   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to its patrons
except when requested.
   (D)   Stage 4 response – Critical water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Goal:
            (a)   Reduce daily water usage to 0.50 MGD.  (Including the Surface
Water Treatment Plant and Water Wells 1 and 2).
            (b)   Reduce raw water intake consumption at the Surface Water
Plant to 0.20 MGD.
      (2)   Water use restrictions.  All requirements of Stages 2 and 3 shall
remain in effect during Stage 4 except:
         (a)   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to odd-even
watering days between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00
p.m. and midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held buckets,
or drip irrigation only. The use of hose-end sprinklers or permanently
installed automatic sprinkler systems are prohibited at all times.
         (b)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle not occurring on the premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station and not in the immediate
interest of public health, safety, and welfare is prohibited. Further, such
vehicle washing at commercial car washes and commercial service stations shall
occur only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and between 6:00 p.m.
and 10:00 p.m.
         (c)   The filling, refilling, or adding of water to swimming pools,
wading pools, and Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited.
         (d)   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
         (e)   No applications for new, additional, expanded, or increased-in-
size water service connections, meters, service lines, pipeline extensions,
mains, or water service facilities of any kind shall be allowed or approved.
   (E)   Stage 5 response – Emergency water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Goal:
         (a)   Reduce daily water usage to 0.40 MGD from Well No. 1 and Well
No. 2.
         (b)   Reduce raw water intake consumption at the Surface Water Plant
to 0.0 MGD.
      (2)   Water use restrictions.  All requirements of Stages 2, 3, and 4
shall remain in effect during Stage 5 except:
         (a)   Irrigation of landscaped areas is absolutely prohibited.
         (b)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is absolutely prohibited.
   (F)   Stage 6 response - Water rationing.  In the event that water shortage
conditions threaten public health, safety, and welfare, the City Manager is
hereby authorized to ration water according to the following water allocation
plan:
      (1)   Single-family residential customers.
         (a)   The allocation to residential water customers residing in a
single-family dwelling shall be as follows:
 
Persons per Household Gallons per Month
1 or 2                6,000
3 or 4                7,000
5 or 6                8,000
7 or 8                9,000
9 or 10               10,000
11 or more            12,000
 
         (b)   HOUSEHOLD means the residential premises served by the
customer’s meter. PERSONS PER HOUSEHOLD includes only those persons currently
physically residing at the premises and expected to reside there for the entire
billing period. It shall be assumed that a particular customer’s household is
comprised of two persons unless the customers notifies the city of a greater
number of persons per household on a form prescribed by the City Manager. The
City Manager shall give his or her best effort to see that such forms are
mailed, otherwise provided, or made available to every residential customer.
If, however, a customer does not receive such a form, it shall be the
customer’s responsibility to go to the city offices to complete and sign the
form claiming more than two persons per household. New customers may claim more
persons per household at the time of applying for water service on the form
prescribed by the city. When the number of persons per household increases so
as to place the customer is a different allocation category, the customer may
notify the city on such form and the change will be implemented in the next
practicable billing period. If the number of persons in a household is reduced,
the customer shall notify the city in writing within two days. In prescribing
the method for claiming more than two persons per household, the City Manager
shall adopt methods to insure the accuracy of the claim. Any person who
knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence falsely reports the number
of persons in a household or fails to timely notify the city of a reduction in
the number of persons in a household shall be fined not less than $100.
Residential water customers shall pay the following surcharges:
            1.   $5 for the first 1,000 gallons over allocation.
            2.   $10 for the second 1,000 gallons over allocation.
            3.   $15 for the third 1,000 gallons over allocation.
            4.   $20 for each additional 1,000 gallons over allocation.
         (c)   Surcharges shall be cumulative.
      (2)   Master-metered multi-family residential customers.
         (a)   The allocation to a customer billed from a master meter which
jointly measures water to multiple permanent residential dwelling units (e.g.,
apartments, mobile homes) shall be allocated 6,000 gallons per month for each
dwelling unit. It shall be assumed that such a customer’s meter serves two
dwelling units unless the customer notifies the city of a greater number on a
form prescribed by the City Manager. The City Manager shall give his or her
best effort to see that such forms are mailed, otherwise provided, or made
available to every such customer. If, however, a customer does not receive such
a form, it shall be the customer’s responsibility to go to the city offices to
complete and sign the form claiming more than two dwellings. A dwelling unit
may be claimed under this provision whether it is occupied or not. New
customers may claim more dwelling units at the time of applying for water
service on the form prescribed by the City Manager. If the number of dwelling
units served by a master meter is reduced, the customer shall notify the city
in writing within two days.  In prescribing the method for claiming more than
two dwelling units, the City Manager shall adopt methods to insure the accuracy
of the claim. Any person who knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence
falsely reports the number of dwelling units served by a master meter or fails
to timely notify the city of a reduction in the number of occupied dwelling
units shall be fined not less than $100. Customers billed from a master meter
under this provision shall pay the following monthly surcharges:
            1.   $5 for 1,000 gallons over allocation up through 1,000 gallons
for each dwelling unit.
            2.   $10, thereafter, for each additional 1,000 gallons over
allocation up through a second 1,000 gallons for each dwelling unit.
            3.   $15, thereafter, for each additional 1,000 gallons over
allocation up through a third 1,000 gallons for each dwelling unit.
            4.   $20, thereafter, for each additional 1,000 gallons over
allocation.
         (b)   Surcharges shall be cumulative.
      (3)   Commercial customers. 
         (a)   A monthly water usage allocation shall be established by the
City Manager, or his or her designee, for each nonresidential commercial
customer other than an industrial customer who uses water for processing
purposes. The nonresidential customer’s allocation shall be approximately 75%
of the customer’s usage for corresponding month’s billing period for the
previous 12 months. If the customer’s billing history is shorter than 12
months, the monthly average for the period for which there is a record shall be
used for any monthly period for which no history exists. If 75% of a customer's
monthly usage is less than 50,000 gallons, the customer shall be allocated
37,500 gallons. The City Manager shall give his or her best effort to see that
notice of each nonresidential customer’s allocation is mailed to the customer.
If, however, a customer does not receive the notice, it shall be the customer’s
responsibility to contact the City Manager to determine the allocation. Upon
request of the customer or at the initiative of the City Manager, the
allocation may be reduced or increased if:
            1.   The designated period does not accurately reflect the
customer’s normal water usage;
            2.   One nonresidential customer agrees to transfer part of its
allocation to another nonresidential customer; or
            3.   Other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions.
            4.   A customer may appeal an allocation established hereunder to
the City Manager.
         (b)   Nonresidential commercial customers shall pay the following
surcharges:
            1.   Customers whose allocation is 30,000 gallons through 50,000
gallons per month:
               a.   $5 per thousand gallons for the first 1,000 gallons over
allocation.
               b.   $10 per thousand gallons for the second 1,000 gallons over
allocation.
               c.   $15 per thousand gallons for the third 1,000 gallons over
allocation.
               d.   $20 per thousand gallons for each additional 1,000 gallons
over allocation.
            2.   Customers whose allocation is 50,000 gallons per month or
more:
               a.   Two times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons in excess
of the allocation up through 5% above allocation.
               b.   Three times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 5%
through 10% above allocation.
               c.   Four times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 10%
through 15% above allocation.
               d.   Five times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons more than
15% above allocation.
         (c)   The surcharges shall be cumulative.  As used herein, BLOCK RATE
means the charge to the customer per 1,000 gallons at the regular water rate
schedule at the level of the customer’s allocation.
      (4)   Industrial customers.
         (a)   A monthly water usage allocation shall be established by the
City Manager, or his or her designee, for each industrial customer which uses
water for processing purposes. The industrial customer’s allocation shall be
approximately 90% percent of the customer’s water usage baseline. Ninety days
after the initial imposition of the allocation for industrial customers, the
industrial customer’s allocation shall be further reduced to 85% percent of the
customer’s water usage baseline. The industrial customer’s water usage baseline
will be computed on the average water usage for the 12-month period ending
prior to the date of implementation of Stage 2 of the Plan. If the industrial
water customer’s billing history is shorter than 12 months, the monthly average
for the period for which there is a record shall be used for any monthly period
for which no billing history exists. The City Manager shall give his or her
best effort to see that notice of each industrial customer’s allocation is
mailed to the customer. If, however, a customer does not receive the notice, it
shall be the customer’s responsibility to contact the city to determine the
allocation, and the allocation shall be fully effective notwithstanding the
lack of receipt of written notice. Upon request of the customer or at the
initiative of the City Manager, the allocation may be reduced or increased:
            1.   If the designated period does not accurately reflect the
customer’s normal water usage because the customer had shutdown a major
processing unit for repair or overhaul during the period;
            2.   The customer has added or is in the process of adding
significant additional processing capacity;
            3.   The customer has shutdown or significantly reduced the
production of a major processing unit;
            4.   The customer has previously implemented significant permanent
water conservation measures such that the ability to further reduce usage is
limited;
            5.    The customer agrees to transfer part of its allocation to
another industrial customer; or
            6.   If other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions.
            7.   A customer may appeal an allocation established hereunder to
the City Manager.
         (b)   Industrial customers shall pay the following surcharges:
            1.   Customers whose allocation is 50,000 gallons through 100,000
gallons per month:
               a.   $5 per thousand gallons for the first 1,000 gallons over
allocation.
               b.   $10 per thousand gallons for the second 1,000 gallons over
allocation.
               c.   $15 per thousand gallons for the third 1,000 gallons over
allocation.
               d.   $20 per thousand gallons for each additional 1,000 gallons
over allocation.
            2.   Customers whose allocation is 100,000 gallons per month or
more:
               a.   Two times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons in excess
of the allocation up through 5% above allocation.
               b.   Three times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 5%
through 10% above allocation.
               c.   Four times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons from 10%
through 15% above allocation.
               d.   Five times the block rate for each 1,000 gallons more than
15% above allocation.
            (c)   The surcharges shall be cumulative. As used herein, BLOCK
RATE means the charge to the customer per 1,000 gallons at the regular water
rate schedule at the level of the customer’s allocation.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.49  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water from
the city for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, governmental,
or any other purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of the Plan, or in
an amount in excess of that permitted by the drought response stage in effect
at the time pursuant to action taken by City Manager, or his or her designee,
in accordance with provisions of this Plan.
   (B)   Any person who violates the Plan shall be subject to §
52.99(C).
   (C)   Any person, including a person classified as a water customer of the
city, in apparent control of the property where a violation occurs or
originates shall be presumed to be the violator, and proof that the violation
occurred on the person’s property shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the person in apparent control of the property committed the violation,
but any such person shall have the right to show that he or she did not commit
the violation. Parents shall be presumed to be responsible for violations of
their minor children and proof that a violation, committed by a child, occurred
on property within the parents’ control shall constitute a rebuttable
presumption that the parent committed the violation, but any such parent may be
excused if he or she proves that he or she had previously directed the child
not to use the water as it was used in violation of the Plan and that the
parent could not have reasonably known of the violation.
   (D)   Any employee of the city or police officer designated by the city may
issue a citation to a person he or she reasonably believes to be in violation
of this subchapter. The citation shall be prepared in duplicate and shall
contain the name and address of the alleged violator, if known, the offense
charged, and shall direct him or her to appear in the Canton Municipal Court on
the date shown on the citation, which date shall not be less than three days
nor more than five days from the date the citation was issued. The alleged
violator shall be served a copy of the citation. Service of the citation shall
be complete upon delivery of the citation to the alleged violator, to an agent
or employee of a violator, or to a person over 14 years of age who is a member
of the alleged violator’s immediate family or is a resident of the alleged
violator’s residence. The alleged violator shall appear in Canton Municipal
Court to enter a plea of guilty or not guilty for the violation of the Plan. If
the alleged violator fails to appear in Canton Municipal Court, a warrant for
his or her arrest may be issued. A summons to appear may be issued in lieu of
an arrest warrant. These cases shall be expedited and given preferential
setting in Canton Municipal Court before all other cases.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)   Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.50  VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Manager, or his or her designee, may, in writing, grant
temporary variance for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under the Plan
if it is determined that failure to grant a variance would cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting the health, sanitation, or fire protection for
the public or the person requesting the variance and if one or more of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   Compliance with the Plan cannot be technically accomplished during
the duration of the water supply shortage or other condition for which the Plan
is in effect;
      (2)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same
level of reduction in water use.
   (B)   Persons requesting an exemption from the provisions of this subchapter
shall file a petition for variance with the city within five days after the
Plan or a particular drought response stage has been invoked. All petitions for
variances shall be reviewed by the City Manager, or his or her designee, and
shall include the following:
      (1)   Name and address of the petitioner(s);
      (2)   Purpose of water use;
      (3)   Specific provision(s) of the Plan from which the petitioner is
requesting relief;
      (4)   Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of the Plan
adversely affects the petitioner or what damage or harm will occur to the
petitioner or others if petitioner complies with this subchapter;
      (5)   Description of the relief requested;
      (6)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
      (7)   Alternative water use restrictions or other measures the petitioner
is taking or proposes to take to meet the intent of the Plan and the compliance
date; and
      (8)   Other pertinent information.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009)   Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of the
mandatory water use restrictions, which have been formally initiated by the
city and contained in §§
52.15 through
52.28 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in the
Municipal Court of the City of Canton, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed the sum of $500 for each offense, and each and every day any such
violations shall continue shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person who violates §§
52.40 through
52.50 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $100 and not more than $250. Each day that one or more of
the provisions of §§
52.40 through
52.50 is violated shall constitute a separate offense. If a person is convicted
of three or more distinct violations of §§
52.40 through
52.50, the City Manager shall, upon due notice to the customer, be authorized
to discontinue water service to the premises where the violations occur.
Services discontinued under such circumstances shall be restored only upon
payment of a re-connection charge, hereby established at $250, and any other
costs incurred by the city in discontinuing service. In addition, suitable
assurance must be given to the City Manager that the same action shall not be
repeated while the Plan set forth in §§
52.40 through
52.50 is in effect. Compliance with the Plan may also be sought through
injunctive relief in the district court.
(Ord. 2000-03, passed 2-19-2000; Ord. 2000-04, passed 3-11-2000; Ord. 2009-08,
passed 3-17-2009; Ord. 2009-15, passed 4-23-2009)
CHAPTER 53:  REFUSE; SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   Rates
§ 53.01  RATES.
   (A)   That rates shall be charged for the collection of solid waste at the
Canton transfer station as follows:
Service City Residents Non-City Residents
Service                                    City Residents    Non-City Residents
Household trash bags, maximum 6 bags
   Up to 35-gallon bag                  $1 ea. bag        $2 ea. bag
   Over 35-gallon bag                   $2 ea. bag        $3 ea. bag
Compacted household trash may be prorated  $19 per cubic yd. $29 per cubic yd.
- $5 min.
Loose household trash may be prorated - $3 $16 per cubic yd. $26 per cubic yd.
min.
Items placed in open-top containers such   $19 per cubic yd. $29 per cubic yd.
as construction debris, excluding shingles
Shingles                                   $27 per cubic yd. $37 per cubic yd.
Furniture, mattresses, television set and
other large items:
   Up to 1 cubic yd.                    $19 ea.           $29
   1.5 cubic yards                      $27 ea.           $37 ea.
   2.0 cubic yards                      $32 ea.           $42 ea.
Major appliances such as refrigerators,
stoves or ranges, hot water heaters,       $11 ea.           $21 ea.
washers, dryers, etc.
No tire, batteries or drums with lids will be accepted
 
   (B)   The rates that shall be charged for the collection of solid waste in
accordance with the following fee schedule:
Residential
Residential
Bag Collection Service: Once per
week pick up 9 bags maximum,        $10
curbside
Cart Service: Once per week pick up $12.50
Commercial Containerized
Size   One time per Two times per   Three times per Extra       Extra Scheduled
       week         week            week            Unscheduled
2 yard $46.46       $72.71          $98.94          $18.60      $15.97
3 yard $53.55       $100.36         $150.72         $20.01      $17.20
4 yard $68.45       $119.51         $162.06         $24.06      $21.40
6 yard $94.69       $146.46         $184.05         $31.91      $29.11
8 yard $115.96      $179.78         $217.38         $40.32      $33.31
Commercial Handload Service (Monthly Charges)
Number of 30-gallon One time per week               Two times per week
bags
5 or less           $15.97                          $19.52
6 to 10             $19.16                          $21.84
11 to 15            $24.12                          $26.25
16 to 20            $26.96                          $32.28
Commercial Cart Service
Once per week pick up               $22.70
Industrial Container Service
Size                Rent                            Haul
20 cu yd open top   $84.14                          $348.47
30 cu yd open top   $87.59                          $426.91
40 cu yd open top   $94.69                          $495.01
Sludge
Size                Rent                            Haul
20 cu yd            –                             $364.40
 
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 4-17-2007; Ord.2008-15, passed 9-2-2008; Ord. 2008-16,
passed 9-2-2008)
CHAPTER 54:  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Section
   
54.01   Compliance
   
54.02   Storm water management requirements
   
54.03   Design standards
   
54.04   Variances
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01  COMPLIANCE.
   All commercial and residential development plans, site plans and
subdivisions plats submitted to the City of Canton shall comply with the
provisions of these regulations and any other applicable regulations. Those
plats of developed property on which no new structures or additional impervious
coverage are planned shall be exempt from the provisions of these sections
until such time that new structures or additional impervious surfaces are
proposed.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 6-17-2010)
§ 54.02  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The Planning and Zoning Commission will not approve any plat, plan or
subdivision which does not meet the minimum requirements of this chapter in
making adequate provision for control of the quantity of storm water run-off to
the benefit of both future owners of property within the subdivision and other
lands upstream or downstream within the watershed. It shall be the
responsibility of the subdivider to design and construct a system for the
collection and transport of all storm water run-off flowing onto and generated
within the subdivision in accordance with the following:
   (A)   The requirements of these regulations;
   (B)   Standard engineering practices, as recommended by the City Engineer;
   (C)   Approved plans;
   (D)   The principles and precedents of storm water law established by the
Texas Water Code; and
   (E)   North Central Texas Standard Specifications for Public Works
Construction adopted by the City of Canton.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 6-17-2010)
§ 54.03  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Basic design objectives.  In general, the storm water management
system shall be designed and constructed in a manner which promotes the
development of a network of both natural and constructed drainage ways
throughout the community and so as to:
      (1)   Retain natural floodplains in a condition that minimizes
interference with floodwater conveyance, floodwater storage, aquatic and
terrestrial ecosystems and ground and surface water;
      (2)   Reduce exposure of people and property to the flood hazard and
nuisance associated with inadequate control of run-off;
      (3)   Systematically reduce the existing level of flood damages;
      (4)   Ensure that corrective works are consistent with the overall goals
of the city;
      (5)   Minimize erosion and sedimentation problems and enhance water
quality;
      (6)   Plan for both the large flooding events and the smaller, more
frequent flooding by providing both major and minor drainage systems;
      (7)   Minimize future operational and maintenance expenses; and
      (8)   Reduce exposure of public investment in utilities, streets and
other public facilities (infrastructure).
   (B)   General design requirements.
      (1)   The storm drainage system shall be separate and independent of any
sanitary sewer system and its use shall not interfere with the operation and
maintenance of road networks or utility systems.
      (2)   Each lot, site and block within the subdivision shall be adequately
drained as prescribed in the city's construction standards and specifications
for roads, streets, structures and utilities. Any use of retaining walls,
swales, retention basins or other planned improvements for storm water control
shall be indicated on the preliminary plat.
      (3)   No subdivision will be approved which calls for building within a
regulatory floodway of any stream or watercourse. The City of Canton may, when
it deems necessary for the protection of the health, safety or welfare of the
present and future population, prohibit subdivisions and/or development of any
property which lies within a designated regulatory floodway of any stream or
watercourse.
      (4)   All lots or building sites within a subdivision shall be accessible
to a public street during 100-year design storm conditions as prescribed in the
city's construction standards and specifications for roads, streets, structures
and utilities. Proof of access shall be included with the final construction
plans.
      (5)   All design calculations shall be prepared and submitted by a Texas
registered professional engineer for review by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Areas subject to inundation under design storm conditions, 100-year
frequency storm event, shall be indicated with the minimum floor elevation of
each lot so affected on a certified copy of the final plat submitted for
filing. The Planning and Zoning Commission may, when it deems necessary for the
protection of the health, safety or welfare of the present and future
populations place restrictions on the subdivision regarding the design and use
of areas within a drainage way or floodplain. The Planning and Zoning
Commission will not approve any subdivision of land within the floodplain of
any stream or watercourse unless the applicant demonstrates that the
subdivision and all development anticipated therein will comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Design of all drainage facilities, including streets, inlets, storm
sewers, outfall, culverts and ditches, shall conform with the city's
construction standards and specifications for roads, street, structures and
utilities and the Texas Department of Transportation standards for storm
sewers, culverts and bridge design.
   (E)   All drainage facilities shall be designed to intercept, detain and
transport the projected run-off from the 25-year frequent storm. Overflow and
transport provisions shall be provided for the 100-year storm. Engineering
calculations, modeling results and hydraulic profile drawings shall be
submitted by the developer's engineer for review by the City Engineer.
   (F)   Projected run-off rates for the design of drainage facilities shall be
based on the expected ultimate developed state of the upstream contributing
area. Said ultimate developed state shall be based on the maximum intensity
allowable under existing zoning and approved plans with the contributing area.
   (G)   All development establishing impervious cover or otherwise modifying
an existing site shall incorporate facilities to prevent any increase in the
peak rate of run-off from a 25-year frequency storm. The city may waive this
requirement under one or more of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Approved off-site storage is provided for the required regulation
of peak flows and adequate conveyance of storm water flows from the site to the
off-site storage facility is demonstrated.
      (2)   Development of a one-, two- or three-family residential structure
on any legally-platted lot creates no more impervious groundcover than 35% of
the gross lot surface area exclusive of any area within the 100-year
floodplain.
      (3)   Certified engineering data and calculations are presented which
demonstrate the absence of adverse impact on all downstream conveyances and
property between the downstream property line and the receiving major waterway.
      (4)   Certified engineering data and calculations are presented which
fully describe, explain and justify recommended alternatives to detention.
      (5)   The increase in run-off does not exceed 10% of the existing
condition run-off up to a maximum increase of five cubic feet per second, and
said run-off does not affect adjoining property.
      (6)   The property is adjacent to a major waterway and, in the judgment
of the City Engineer, waive of detention requirements will not result in an
increase in the peak flood flow of the major waterway. Waiver of this
requirement for any reason shall not relieve the owner of responsibility under
civil law to adjacent and downstream property owners.
      (7)   Design of major drainage ways through a subdivision and major
structures such as multiple culverts, box culverts or bridges across a major
drainage channel shall require a letter requesting a local floodplain map
amendment from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). This request
shail be submitted to FEMA prior to final construction plan approval. Whether
or not a drainage way, structure, or channel are classified as "major" shall be
determined by the City Engineer.
      (8)   Drainage channels.
         (a)   The limits of the 25-year and 100-year storm event shall be
determined for all water courses unless an exception is granted by the City
Engineer. Calculations for storm events shall utilize the rational method and
TxDOT design procedures for smaller watersheds and the SCS or HEC methods for
larger watersheds.
         (b)   No placement of fill material or channel modifications shall be
undertaken within the area of the 100-year floodplain without written approval
of the city. Channel modifications may include residential construction, timber
removal and site preparation. Such approval shall be based upon sealed
engineering data and calculations furnished by the applicant and approved by
the City Engineer. Channel modifications that alter the current Flood Hazard
Boundary Map study parameters of the City of Canton on file at FEMA will not be
approved until a Letter of Map Revision (LOMR), or other appropriate letter is
prepared, and submitted to FEMA by the developer's engineer.
         (c)   All open ditches in all subdivisions that are used to carry
surface run-off shall be lined for erosion protection. The height of the lining
shall be adequate for the calculated depth at design flow plus one foot
freeboard. Side slopes of earthen and grassed channels shall not be steeper
than one foot vertical rise to four feet horizontal distance. In new
subdivisions, the developer shall provide all the necessary easement and right-
of-way required for drainage structures, including storm sewers and open flow
channels. Earthen channels may be allowed where the velocity of the water does
not exceed six feet per second nor a slope greater than 1.0%. The earthen
channels shall have established grass prior to issuance of any building
permits. All bends in earthen channels shall be constructed with approved
concrete rip-rap within the limits of the curve plus five feet minimum upstream
and downstream. The side slopes of earthen channels shall be no steeper than
one foot vertical rise to four feet horizontal distance. Easement width for a
storm sewer pipe shall be not less than 20 feet, and the easement width for
open channels shall be at least 20 feet wider than the design water surface
elevation, 15 feet of which shall be on an open side to serve as access way for
maintenance purposes. The channel easements shall not be fenced and shall be
mowed by the property owners.
         (d)   All constructed or modified earthen channels shall be designed
utilizing a side slope of 4:1, or flatter, to allow for future maintenance and
to promote adequate slope stability. As a minimum, all slopes shall be
hydromulched, sodded or seeded and stabilized with an erosion control mat.
      (9)   Streets and storm sewer.
         (a)   All street sections shall be in accordance with city standards.
The allowable design drainage capacity for storm water flow at the gutter at
the 25-year storm flow shall be no deeper than the top of the curb.
         (b)   Depth of flow in streets is to be controlled to allowable levels
by modification of crossfall, gradient changes or the use of curb inlets and/or
curb drains and storm sewers.
         (c)   Streets and underground storm drains shall be designed to
accommodate a 25-year frequency storm with adequate overland relief for the
100-year storm. Design of all bridges, culverts, underpasses and open channels
are to be based on a 25-year frequency. All bridges and culverts to be built in
the floodplain shall comply with the established floodplain regulations and
analyzed for a 100-year event.
         (d)   Water in excess of that permissible in streets with allowable
depth or spread of water shall be carried in storm sewers or open ditches, not
in the street right-of-way.
         (e)   Street grades shall be such that excessive sand deposition from
low water velocities or pavement scouring from high velocities is to avoided as
far as practical.
         (f)   Concrete valley gutters shall be provided when necessary to
carry the water flow across all intersections. Concrete valley gutters shall be
six inches thick and a minimum of ten feet wide. The valley gutters shall be
poured monolithic with the curb returns. All intersection radii are to be 20
feet or greater at the curb line. Where water flows from a street directly into
an open watercourse, an approved structure shall be used for the transition.
         (g)   Where storm sewer are required, inlets shall be spaced so that
the spread in the street for the design flow (25-year storm) shall not exceed
one-third of the overall roadway width from face to face of curbs. Inlets will
be sized using an allowable capacity determined using TxDOT design manual,
taking into account street grade and cross-slope for a throat height of five
inches and shall be designed so as to conform to city construction standards.
         (h)   Design of storm sewers, outfalls, culverts and drainage ditches
shall conform to the following general requirements.
            1.   Manholes (inlets or junction boxes) shall be provided at all
changes in grade or alignment, sewer intersections, and at a maximum of 1,000
feet on straight lines. Design of manholes shall conform to the current city
construction standards.
            2.   Storm drains shall be reinforced concrete pipe (RCP), American
Society Testing Materials, Standard C76, Class 3 pipe. Pipe for storm drains
shall be constructed to the bank of the receiving drainway and shall have a
minimum cover of not less than one foot over the top of the pipe. Erosion
control measures shall be taken at the outlet of the pipe. When exit velocities
exceed six fps at the 25-year storm, velocity attenuation structures shall be
required.
            3.   Wherever possible, outfalls from storm sewers and ditches into
natural drainage ways shall enter at the grade of the natural drainage channel.
The subdivider's engineer shall design drop-type outfall structures or shall
otherwise provide adequate protection against erosion.
      (10)   Bridges and culverts.
         (a)   All bridge and culvert structures shall be designed to carry
and/or contain the upstream runoff from a 25-year storm.
         (b)   Run-off from the 100-year storm shall not top the road surface
at a bridge or culvert crossing for an arterial or collector street crossing
and shall not exceed a depth of six inches on a local street crossing.
         (c)   All bridge and culvert structures shall be designed such that
the structural integrity of the roadway shall not be diminished by the 25- or
100-year storm event.
         (d)   Bridges are to be constructed at all street crossings over the
major streams in the city and shall have the proper dimensions to fit the
proposed channel sections given in the drainage section of the city's
comprehensive plan or as stipulated by the city. All bridges in the floodplain
shall comply with established floodplain regulations.
      (11)   Computations, plans and construction.
         (a)   Plans and computations for proposed drainage facilities shall be
certified with the seal of the developer's design engineer, and submitted to
the City Engineer for acceptance prior to approval of construction plans.
Approval shall be in writing from the City Engineer hired by the City of
Canton.
         (b)   Computations for all drainage related designs shall be submitted
with the plans for review. Data submitted shall include a drainage area map, a
summary of methodology employed and resulting data, land use and run-off
coefficient assumptions, and other pertinent hydrologic and hydraulic data.
Failure to include surrounding or off-site drainage patterns is cause for
refusal to review other data submitted.
         (c)   The city shall make such inspections as are deemed necessary to
assure proper installation. Neither the review nor approval of such plans, nor
the inspection of the completed work, will create any liability on the part of
the city.
         (d)   Following construction, but prior to acceptance of improvements
or issuance of a building permit, the design engineer shall furnish one set of
reproducible "AS BUILT" plans for each project, bearing certification by a
Texas registered professional engineer.
         (e)   Plans for all subdivisions shall include lot grading plans
showing flow direction arrows. Certificates of occupancy will not be issued for
lots not graded in accordance with approved grading plans or approved
amendments.
      (12)   Building permits and utility connections.
         (a)   Plans submitted for building permits and/or utility connections
other than single-family residential or duplex construction, and for those
projects already in compliance with this chapter, shall include the necessary
drainage-related facilities designed and provided for in compliance with this
chapter and the city's construction standards and specifications for roads,
streets, structures and utilities.
         (b)   Plans and design calculations for all drainage facilities shall
be submitted to the city for acceptance prior to issuance of any permit within
the development or subdivisions.
         (c)   Detention of water on parking areas shall not result in a water
depth of more than six inches at peak overflow elevations. Acknowledgment of
detention depths within the site of a development shall be provided by the
developer.
         (d)   Erosion control techniques which conform to sound engineering
practices shall be implemented during construction and at its completion to
limit erosion and sedimentation to that level, or to a lesser level than that,
existing prior to development.
         (e)   Fences shown on the site plan shall be constructed and located
so as not to interfere with the runoff of a lot. Fences shall not be permitted
across platted drainage channels unless provided with openings for drainage.
         (f)   Property located within the 100-year floodplain, to the extent
that such property is deemed by the city to be necessary to provide adequate
and proper drainage for the city, shall be dedicated to the public as a
drainage easement which may be used as public open space.
      (13)   Drainage easements.
         (a)   General requirements.
            1.   Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage
way, channel or stream, or where a detention facility is required, there shall
be provided a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way conforming
substantially to the lines of such watercourse or facility and of such width
and construction to contain the design storm and required one foot freeboard.
When parking lots or other approved use areas serve a dual function, including
detention, those areas shall be designated on the plat as maintained by an open
channel with landscaped banks having adequate width to contain the volume of
flow generated by the design storm under ultimate development conditions.
            2.   Unlined open drainage channels or ditches shall not be
permitted on residential lots. Linings shall be concrete, unless otherwise
approved by the city.
         (b)   Design requirements.
            1.   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way,
perpetual unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for such drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines and with
satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
Drainage easements shall be carried from the road to a natural watercourse or
to other drainage facilities.
            2.   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across
private land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights must be
secured, documented on the plat, and drawn on the construction plans.
            3.   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods shall be preserved and retained in their
natural state as drainage ways except where modification can be shown to
benefit the community and as approved by the City of Canton. All development
activity within the regulatory floodplain must comply with the City of Canton
and FEMA floodplain management regulations.
            4.   All sedimentation, filtration, detention and/or retention
basins and related appurtenances shall be situated within a drainage easement.
The owners of the tracts upon which are located such easements, appurtenances
and detention facilities shall maintain same and be responsible for their
upkeep. Notice of such duty to maintain shall be shown on the plats.
      (14)   Drainage facilities shall be designed to serve the entire
subdivision. The City of Canton may approve deferral of design of drainage
facilities, if any are required, to the detailed development plan. For all
other subdivisions, design of drainage facilities shall be completed with other
required construction plans in order to ensure adequate drainage easements and
other reservations on the plat.
      (15)   The requirements set forth herein are not intended to be
exhaustive and wherever it is necessary to make additional requirements in
order to maximize the effectiveness of the drainage plan in question, such
requirements shall be made by the City Engineer and the City of Canton.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 6-17-2010)
§ 54.04  VARIANCES.
   Where the City Council of the City of Canton, Texas, finds that
extraordinary hardships may result from a strict compliance of this chapter, it
may vary the regulations so that substantial justice may be done and the public
interest secured; provided that such variation shall not have the effect of
nullifying the intent and purpose of these regulations. Such variances and
modifications as may be granted shall be at least a three-fourths majority of
the Council.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 6-17-2010)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions or terms of this  chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
the sum of $200 for each offense, together with the costs of such prosecution.
Each and every day the offense continues shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. In addition to and cumulative of all other penalties, the
city shall have the right to seek injunctive relief for any and all violations
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-11, passed 6-17-2010)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC AND PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Authority of police
   
70.03   Persons propelling push carts, riding animals, bicycles
   
70.04   Driving; speed
   
70.05   General driving regulations
   
70.06   Turning; starting; signals on stopping and turning
   
70.07   Accidents; starting parked vehicle
   
70.08   Traffic and pedestrian signals
   
70.09   Pedestrian’s rights and duties
   
70.10   Parking regulations
   
70.11   Truck use of motor brakes
   
70.12   Parking of vehicles in public places
   
70.13   Parking on state highways
   
70.14   Trucks; weight limitations
Specific Regulations
   
70.25   Authority to erect stop signs
   
70.26   Emerging from alley or private driveway
   
70.27   Stop when traffic obstructed
   
70.28   Unattended motor vehicle
   
70.29   Following fire apparatus
   
70.30   Crossing fire hose
   
70.31   Putting glass and the like on highway prohibited
   
70.32   Removing materials from highway
   
70.33   Mufflers; prevention of noise
   
70.34   Driving through funeral or procession
   
70.35   Drivers in a procession
   
70.36   Funeral processions to be identified
   
70.37   Limitations on backing
   
70.38   Riding on motorcycles
   
70.39   Clinging to moving vehicle
   
70.40   Opening of vehicle doors
Enforcement and Remedies
   
70.55   Payment of fine
   
70.56   Disposition of fines and forfeitures
   
70.57   Failure to obey notice of summons
   
70.58   Unlawful to give wrong name or address
   
70.59   Vehicles may be removed and impounded
   
70.60   Emergency clause
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE.  Vehicles of the Fire Department, police
vehicles and ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments, or
public service corporations, as are designated by the governing body of the
City of Canton.
   BICYCLE.  A device that a person may ride and that is propelled by human
power and has two tandem wheels at least one of which is more than 14 inches in
diameter.
   CROSSWALK.  That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
   DRIVER.  Every person who drives or is in actual, physical control of a
vehicle.
   INTERSECTION.
      (1)   INTERSECTION means the common area at the junction of two highways,
other than the junction of an alley and a highway.
      (2)   The dimension of an intersection include only the common area:
         (a)   Within the connection of the lateral curb lines or, in the
absence of curb lines, the lateral boundary lines of the roadways of
intersection highways that join at approximate right angles; or
         (b)   At the place where vehicles could collide if traveling on
roadways of intersection highways that join at any angle other than an
approximate right angle.
      (3)   Each junction of each roadway of a highway that includes two
roadways at least 30 feet apart with the roadway of an intersecting highway,
including each roadway of an intersecting highway that includes two roadways at
least 30 feet apart, is a separate INTERSECTION.
   LOADING ZONE.  A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles doing the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails.
   MOTORCYCLE.  Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider
and designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD.  Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time, or daylight saving time as may be in current use in this
city.
   OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.  All signs, signals, markings and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   PARK.  When prohibited means the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or
not, otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading.
   PASSENGER LOADING ZONE.  A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the
exclusive use of vehicles doing the loading or unloading of passengers.
   PEDESTRIAN.  Any person afoot.
   PERSONS.  Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation.
   POLICE OFFICER.  Every officer of the municipal department or any other
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
   PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY.  Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner, but not by other persons.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian that is approaching from
a direction, at a speed, and within a proximity that could cause a collision
unless on grants precedence to another.
   ROADWAY.  That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel. In the event a highway includes two or
more separate roadways the term ROADWAY as used herein shall refer to any such
roadway separately but not to all the roadways collectively.
   SAFETY ZONE.  The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   SIDEWALK.  That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STOP.  When required, complete cessation of movement.
   STOP, STOPPING or STANDING.  When prohibited means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
   STREET or HIGHWAY.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TRAFFIC.  Pedestrian, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other
conveyances either singly or together while using any street for purpose of
travel.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL.  Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGN OR DEVICE.  All signs, signals, marking and devices,
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of the City
Council of the City of Canton for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
   VEHICLE.  Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or,
may be transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power
or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.02  AUTHORITY OF POLICE.
   (A)   Police to direct traffic. It shall be the duty of the Police
Department of this city to enforce the provisions of this chapter. Officers of
the Police Department are hereby authorized to direct all traffic, either in
person or by means of visible and/or audible signals in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter, providing that in the event of a fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the
Police Department or Fire Department may direct traffic as conditions may
require notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council authorized to adopt emergency and other regulations.
The City Council is hereby empowered by resolution to make and enforce
regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of this ordinance and to
make and enforce temporary regulations to cover emergency of special
conditions.
   (C)   Obedience to police officers. No person shall willfully fail or refuse
to comply with any lawful order or direction by any police officer invested by
law with authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
   (D)   Public officers and employees to obey ordinance; exception.
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter applicable to the drivers of
vehicles upon the highways and streets shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, this state or any county,
city, town, district or any other political subdivision of this state, subject
to the specific exceptions as are set forth in this chapter with reference to
authorized emergency vehicles.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle operated by the Fire Department or Police
Department is exempt from the provisions of this chapter when responding to an
emergency call.
      (3)   The driver of any authorized emergency vehicle when responding to
an emergency call upon approaching a red or stop signal or any stop signs shall
slow down as necessary for the safety but may proceed cautiously past such red
or stop sign or signal. At other times, drivers of authorized emergency
vehicles shall stop in obedience to a stop sign or signal. This exemption shall
not, however, protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequences of a
reckless disregard of the safety of others.
      (4)   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any
special privilege under this ordinance except when the vehicle is operated in
response to an emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or
suspected violator of the law.
      (5)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons, teams,
motor vehicles and other equipment while actually engaged in work upon the
surface of a highway or street but shall apply to the persons and vehicles when
traveling to or from the work.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.03  PERSONS PROPELLING PUSH CARTS, RIDING ANIMALS, BICYCLES.
   Every person propelling any push cart, riding animals, riding a bicycle or
driving any animal drawn vehicle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this chapter, except those provisions of this chapter which by their
very nature can have no application.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.04  DRIVING; SPEED.
   (A)   The state traffic laws regulating the speed of vehicles shall be
applicable upon all streets within this city, except as this chapter, as
authorized by state laws, hereby declares and determines upon the basis of
engineering and traffic investigation that certain speed regulations shall be
applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas, in which event it shall
be prima facie unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess
of any speed so declared in this chapter when signs are in place giving notice
thereof.
   (B)   Upon the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation heretofore
made as authorized by the provisions of Tex. Trans. Code, Art. 545.356 the
following prima facie speed limits hereafter indicated for vehicles are hereby
determined and declared to be reasonable and safe; and those speed limits are
hereby fixed as the rate of speed indicated for vehicles upon that part of the
streets and highways described as follows: on all streets, avenues and other
public ways within the Canton city limits it shall be hereafter unlawful for
any person to drive any motor or other vehicle upon the streets, avenues or
other public ways in the City of Canton at a speed in excess of 30 mph except
as indicated on certain portions of streets, avenues and other public ways in
the city limits of Canton as prescribed in Ordinance of August 14, 1962 which
are on file in the office of the City Secretary.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.05  GENERAL DRIVING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Drive on right side of roadway. Exception: upon all roadways to driver
of a vehicle shall drive upon the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
      (1)   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction under the rules governing that movement;
      (2)   When the right half of a roadway is closed to traffic while under
construction or repair;
      (3)   Upon a roadway divided into three marked lanes for traffic under
the rules applicable thereon; or
      (4)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
   (B)   Passing vehicles proceeding in opposite directions. Drivers of
vehicles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the right
and upon the roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in
each direction. Each driver shall give to the other at least one-half of the
main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
   (C)   Overtaking a vehicle on the left. The following rules shall govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
those limitations, exceptions and special rules hereinafter stated:
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in
the same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall
not again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle; and
      (2)   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give away the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his or
her vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   (D)   When overtaking on the right is permitted.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         (a)   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         (b)   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles
in each direction; or
         (c)   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, when the roadway is free from
obstruction and of sufficient width for two or more lines of moving vehicles.
      (2)   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting the movement in safety. In no event
shall the movement be made by driving off the pavement or main traveled portion
of the roadway.
   (E)   Limitations on overtaking on the left. No vehicle shall be driven to
the left side of the center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless the left side is clearly
visible and is free of oncoming traffic for sufficient distance ahead to permit
the overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering with the
safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any
vehicle overtaken. In every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the
right hand side of the roadway before coming within 100 feet of any vehicle
approaching from the opposite direction.
   (F)   Further limitations on driving to left of center of roadway.
      (1)   No vehicle shall at any time be driven to the left side of the
roadway under the following conditions:
         (a)   Where sight restriction is such that the section of highway
being traversed lies within a no-passing zone as determined and marked in
accordance with division (G) below;
         (b)   When approaching within 100 feet of any bridge, viaduct or
tunnel; or
         (b)   Within 100 feet of an intersection.
      (2)   The foregoing limitations shall not apply upon a one-way roadway.
   (G)   No passing zone. The City Council of the City of Canton are hereby
authorized to determine by resolution those portions of any highway in the city
limits of the City of Canton where overtaking and passing or driving on the
left side of the roadway would be especially hazardous and may by appropriate
signs or markings on the roadway indicate the beginning and end of the zones
and when the signs or markings are in place and clearly visible to any
ordinarily observant person every driver of a vehicle shall obey the directions
thereof.
   (H)   One-way roadways and rotary traffic islands.
      (1)   The City Council of the City of Canton may designate any highway or
any separate roadway under its jurisdiction for one-way traffic and shall erect
appropriate signs giving notice thereof.
      (2)   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic the
driver of a vehicle shall drive only in the direction designated.
      (3)   The driver of a vehicle passing around a rotary traffic island
shall drive only to the right of the island.
   (I)   Driving on roadways laned for traffic. Whenever any roadway has been
divided into two or more clearly marked lanes for traffic the following rules
in addition to all others consistent herewith shall apply:
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle shall drive as nearly as practical entirely
within a single lane and shall not be moved from that lane until the driver has
first ascertained that the movement can be made with safety;
      (2)   Upon a roadway which is divided into three lanes the driver of a
vehicle shall not drive in the center lane, except when overtaking and passing
another vehicle where the roadway is clearly visible and the center lane is
clear of traffic within a safe distance, or in preparation for a left turn or
where the center lane is at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in
the direction the vehicle is proceeding and is signposted to give notice of the
allocation; and
      (3)   Official signs may be erected directing slow moving traffic to use
a designated lane or designating those lanes to be used by traffic moving in a
particular direction regardless, of the center of the roadway and drivers of
vehicles shall obey the direction of every such sign.
   (J)   Following too closely. The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard
for the speed of the vehicles and the traffic upon and the conditions of the
highway.
   (K)   Driving on divided highways. Whenever any highway has been divided
into two roadways by leaving an intervening space or by a physical barrier or
clearly indicated driving section so constructed as to impede vehicular,
traffic, every vehicle shall be driven only upon the right hand roadway and no
vehicle shall be driven over, across or within any such dividing space, barrier
or section, except through an opening in the physical barrier or dividing
section or space or at a crossover intersection established by public
authority.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.06  TURNING; STARTING; SIGNALS ON STOPPING AND TURNING.
   (A)   Required position and method of turning at intersections. The driver
of a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows.
      (1)   Both the approach to a right turn and a right turn shall be made as
close as practical to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (2)   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a two-way
street shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest
the center line thereof and after entering the intersection the left turn shall
be made so as to leave the intersection to the right of the center line of the
roadway being entered.
      (3)   Approach for a left turn from a two-way street into a one-way
street shall be made in that portion of the right half of the roadway nearest
the center line thereof and be passing to the right of the center line where it
enters the intersection. A left turn from a one-way street shall be made by
entering the intersection as close as practical to the left curb or edge of the
roadway by which the intersection is entered and by passing to the right of the
center line of the street being entered upon leaving the intersection.
      (4)   Where both streets or roadways are one way, both the approach for a
left turn and a left turn shall be made as close as practicable to the left
hand curb or edge of the roadway.
      (5)   The City Council in cooperation with the Police Department may
cause markers, buttons or signs to be placed within or adjacent to
intersections and thereby require and direct that a different course from that
specified in this chapter be traveled by vehicles turning at an intersection,
and when markers, buttons or signs are so placed no driver of a vehicle shall
turn a vehicle at an intersection other than as directed and required by those
markers, buttons or signs.
   (B)   Starting parked vehicle. No person shall start a vehicle which is
stopped, standing or parked unless and, until the movement can be made with
safety.
   (C)   Turning movements and required signals.
      (1)   No person shall turn a vehicle at an intersection unless the
vehicle is in proper position upon the roadway as required in division (A)
above, or turn a vehicle from a direct course or move right or left upon a
roadway unless and until the movement can be made with safety. No person shall
so turn any vehicle without giving an appropriate signal in the manner
hereinafter provided in the event any other traffic may be affected by that
movement.
      (2)   A signal of intention to turn right or left when required shall be
given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet traveled by the
vehicle before turning.
      (3)   No person shall stop or suddenly decrease the speed of a vehicle
without first giving an appropriate signal in the manner provided herein to the
driver of any vehicle immediately to the rear when there is opportunity to give
the signal.
   (D)   Signals by hand and arm or signal device. Any stop or turn signal when
required herein shall be given either by means of the hand and arm or by a
signal lamp or lamps or mechanical signal device of a type approved by the
Texas Department of Public Safety, but when a vehicle is so constructed or
loaded that a hand and arm signal would not be visible both to the front and
rear of the vehicle then the signals must be given by such a lamp or lamps or
signal device.
   (E)   Method of giving hand-and-arm signals.
      (1)   All signals herein required given by hand and arm shall be given
from the left side of the vehicle in the following manner and those signals
shall indicate as follows:
         (a)   Left turn: hand and arm extended horizontally;
         (b)   Right turn: hand and arm extended upward; and
         (c)   Stop or decreased speed: hand and arm extended downward.
      (2)   The signals herein required shall be given either by means of the
hand and arm, or by a signal lamp or signal device approved by the department.
   (F)   Limitations on turning around. It shall be unlawful for the operator
of any vehicle to turn the vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction
unless the movement can be made in safety and without backing or otherwise
interfering with other traffic. A complete turn shall not be made at the
intersection of any street, avenue or other public way.
   (G)   Emerging from alley or private driveway. The operator of a vehicle
emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall stop the vehicle immediately
prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway.
   (H)   Vehicles shall not be driven on the sidewalk. The operator of a
vehicle shall not drive or park the vehicle within any sidewalk area except at
a permanent or temporary driveway.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07  ACCIDENTS; STARTING PARKED VEHICLE.
   (A)   Immediate report of accident.
      (1)   The driver of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury
to or death of any person or property damage to an apparent extent of $25 or
more, shall immediately by the quickest means of communication, either verbal
or written, give notice of the accident to the Police Department if the
accident occurs within this city.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the driver or any other person to remove
the vehicle from the scene of the accident until authorized to do so by a
police officer of the Police Department of this city; provided, however, that
the foregoing portion of this division (A)(2) shall not apply if there exists
or arises a duty on the part of the driver or other person in control of the
vehicle to use the vehicle in carrying any person injured in the accident to a
physician or surgeon for medical or surgical treatment.
      (3)   The Police Department of this city, acting by any officer of the
traffic division or the Chief of Police, may require any driver of a vehicle
involved in an accident of which report must be made as provided in these
sections to make supplemental oral or written report, whenever the original
report is found to be insufficient, or inadequate in the opinion of the
officer, and may require witnesses of accidents to render reports to the
department.
      (4)   Every law enforcement officer, other than members of the Canton
Police Department and Texas Department of Public Safety, who in the regular
course of duty investigates a motor vehicle accident of which report must be
made as required in this section, either at the time of and at the scene of the
accident or thereafter by interviewing participants or witnesses shall, within
24 hours after completing the investigation, forward a written report of the
accident to the Police Department of this city. Every such accident report
shall be made on the appropriate form provided by the department and shall
contain all of the information required therein unless not available. The
reports shall be without prejudice to the officer so reporting and shall be
available to the parties to the accident or their authorized agents to receive
same.
   (B)   When driver unable to report. Whenever the driver of a vehicle is
physically incapable of making a required accident report and there was another
occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident capable of making report,
the occupant shall make or cause to be made the report.
   (C)   Driver of wrecker trucks not to interfere with police investigation of
accidents. It shall be unlawful for the driver or any person in charge, of any
vehicle equipped with a crane, hoist, winch or towing device, who has answered
a call to, or is attending the scene of, any collision or accident of one or
more vehicles on any highway in this city, to remove, or attempt to remove, any
vehicle involved in the collision or accident, or in any way to interfere with
or change the position of any such vehicle, except upon authority or direction
and in the presence of a police officer of this city, unless the change is made
or attempted for the purpose of releasing a person or persons imprisoned within
or under the vehicle involved in the collision or accident, provided further,
that it shall be unlawful for the driver, or person in charge, of any such
vehicle equipped with a crane, hoist, winch, or towing device to remove any
vehicle from the scene of accident or collision without the consent of the
owner of the vehicle so removed, unless directed by a police officer to remove
the vehicle as a public safety measure or for the protection of private
property.
   (D)   Accident involving damage to vehicle. The driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident resulting only in damage to a vehicle which is driven
or attended by any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of
the accident or as close thereto as possible but shall forthwith return to and
in every event remain at the scene of the accident until he or she has given
his or her name, address and registration number of the vehicle he or she is
driving and shall upon request if available exhibit his or her operator’s,
commercial operator’s or chauffeur’s license to the driver of occupant of or
person attending any vehicle collided with.
   (E)   Duty upon striking unattended vehicle. The driver of any vehicle which
collides with and damages any vehicle which is unattended shall immediately
stop and shall then and there either locate and notify the operator or owner of
the vehicle of the name and address of the driver and owner of the vehicle
striking the unattended vehicle or shall leave in a conspicuous place in, or
securely attached to and plainly visible, the vehicle struck a written notice
giving the name and address of the driver and of the owner of the vehicle doing
the striking and a statement of the circumstances thereof, and shall make
report of the accident when and as required in division (A) above.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08  TRAFFIC AND PEDESTRIAN SIGNALS.
   (A)   Traffic control signal legend. Whenever traffic is controlled by
traffic control signals exhibiting the words “Go,” “Caution” or “Stop,” or
exhibiting different colored lights successively one at a time, or with arrows,
the following colors only shall be used and the terms and lights shall indicate
and apply to drivers of vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
      (1)   Green alone or “Go.”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when prohibited
under the provisions of this chapter may proceed straight through or turn right
a left unless a signal at a place prohibits either such turn. But vehicular
traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right of way
to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an
adjacent cross walk at the time such signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway
within any marked or unmarked cross walk.
      (2)   Yellow along, or “Caution” when shown following the green or “Go”
signal.
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the
red or “Stop” signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and the vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or “Stop”
signal is exhibited.
         (b)   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right of way, for all vehicles.
      (3)   Red alone or “Stop.”
         (a)   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until the green or “Go” is
shown alone.
         (b)   No pedestrian facing the signal shall enter the roadway unless
he or she can do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
      (4)   Application of section. In the event an official traffic control
sign or device is erected and maintained at a place other than an intersection,
the provisions of this section shall be applicable except as to those
provisions which by their nature can have no application. Any stop required
shall be made at a sign or marking on the pavement indicating where the stop
shall be made, but in the absence of any such sign or marking the stop shall be
made at the signal.
   (B)   Flashing signals. Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used
they shall require obedience by vehicular traffic as follows.
      (1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
      (2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated
with rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past the signal only with caution.
   (C)   Display of unauthorized signals or markings.
      (1)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal or marking, or devise which purports to
be or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic control device or
which attempts to direct the movement of traffic, or which hides from view or
interferes with the effectiveness of any official traffic control device, or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon
private property adjacent to highways or signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
      (2)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and the Chief of Police is hereby empowered to remove the
same or cause it to be removed without notice.
   (D)   Interference with official traffic control devices, signs or signals.
No person shall without lawful authority attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic control device or any
inscription shield, or insignia thereon, or any part thereof.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09  PEDESTRIAN’S RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Pedestrians subject to traffic regulations.
      (1)   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic control signals at
intersections as provided in this chapter, but at all other places pedestrians
shall be accorded the privileges and shall be subject to the restrictions
stated in this section.
      (2)   Pedestrians shall strictly comply with the directions of all
official traffic control signals in the City of Canton, and it shall be
unlawful for any pedestrian to cross any street or roadway in the fire limits
of the City of Canton except in a designated crosswalk.
   (B)   Pedestrians; right-of-way in crosswalks.
      (1)   When traffic control signals are not in place or not, in operation
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way, slowing down or stopping
if need be to so yield, to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a cross
walk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the vehicle
is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger, but no pedestrian shall
suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety and walk or run into the path of
a vehicle which is so close that it is impossible for the driver to yield.
      (2)   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass the stopped vehicle.
   (C)   Between adjacent intersections. Between adjacent intersections at
which traffic control signals are in operation pedestrians shall not cross at
any place except in a marked crosswalk.
   (D)   Drivers to exercise due care. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions
of this section every driver of a vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid
colliding with any pedestrian upon any roadway and shall give warning by
sounding the horn when necessary and shall exercise proper precaution upon
observing any child or any confused or incapacitated person upon a roadway.
   (E)   Pedestrians to use a right half of crosswalk. Pedestrians shall move,
whenever possible upon the right half of crosswalk.
   (F)   Pedestrians on roadways.
      (1)   Where sidewalks are provided it shall be unlawful for any
pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
      (2)   Where sidewalks are not provided any pedestrian along and upon a
highway shall when possible walk only on the left side of the roadway or its
shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite direction.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.10  PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No parking.  It shall be unlawful for any person to park, or leave
standing, or fail to remove a vehicle of any kind at any place where official
signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   Two-hour parking.  It shall be unlawful for any person to park or
leave standing, or fail to remove a vehicle of any kind for more than two hours
at any place where official signs designate two-hour parking.
   (C)   No parking during First Monday Trade Days.  It shall be unlawful for
any person to park, or leave standing, or fail to remove a vehicle of any kind
during First Monday Trade Days defined as Thursday through Sunday before the
first Monday of every month when official signs so designate.
   (D)   No parking/loading zones. It shall be unlawful for any person to park,
or leave standing, or fail to remove a vehicle of any kind for any purpose
other than temporary loading or unloading where official signs limit parking in
loading zones.
   (E)   Authorized parking only. It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized
person to park, or leave standing, or fail to remove a vehicle of any kind
where official signs limit paring to persons or customers specifically
authorized.
   (F)   Towing provisions. The Police Department is directed to cause to be
towed away any vehicle found parked or standing in violation of divisions (A),
(B), (C), (D), or (E) of this section; and the owner of the vehicle shall be
civilly liable to the person doing the towing for the reasonable cost thereof.
   (G)   Effective date. This section shall become effective and in full force
immediately afer its passage and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964; Ord. 2007-37, passed 1-20-2007)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.11  TRUCK USE OF MOTOR BRAKES.
   (A)   The City Council hereby restricts the use of any motor brake within
the City of Canton in an attempt to reduce noise, prevent destruction of
pavement at intersections and facilitate lower speeds within the downtown
traffic corridors.
   (B)   This section shall be strictly enforced by the City of Canton Police
Department.
   (C)   Any person violating this section may be cited and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200
for each offense.
   (D)   All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith be and the
same are hereby repealed to the extent of the conflict.
   (E)   If for any reason any section, division, clause, phrase, word or
provision of this section, shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by final
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not effect any other
section, division, clause, phrase, word or provision hereof given full force
and effect for its purpose.
   (F)   The City Manager of the City of Canton is hereby authorized and
directed to cause a true and correct copy of the caption, penalties and
effective date of this section to be published in a newspaper having general
circulation in the City of Canton, Texas prior to its effective date. Following
the publication and posting of signs, this section shall be in full force and
effect.
(Ord. 2002-12, passed 10-15-2002)
§ 70.12  PARKING OF VEHICLES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle in any public
place within the city limits of the City of Canton, Texas. The term PUBLIC
PLACE shall be defined as any place to which the public has access and
includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, alleyways, parking lots and
any other areas owned or controlled by the City of Canton between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless that person is conducting business at that
location.
   (B)   Anyone guilty of violating this section shall be fined not to exceed
$200.
(Ord. 78, passed 7-18-1978)
§ 70.13  PARKING ON STATE HIGHWAYS.
   (A)   That it shall be unlawful for trucks trailers and semi-trailers to
park on the right of way of a state highway within the city limits of Canton,
Texas, for the purpose of selling any product, in any location, unless that
location is designated by the City of Canton, Texas.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any truck, trailer or semitrailer to remain
parked on the right of way of a state highway for more than one hour for any
purpose.
   (C)   This section being enacted for the safety and health of all the people
and any firm, person or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be fined in the sum not to exceed $200, and each day shall be considered
a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 2-11-1964)
§ 70.14  TRUCKS; WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Authority. This section is adopted under the 2000 Edition of the
Uniform Vehicle Code.
   (B)   Regulation. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a truck
with a gross weight exceeding 1,500 pounds upon any residential street or parts
of a residential street within the city limits of Canton, Texas.
   (C)   Trucks used for delivery to a residence will be excluded.
   (D)   Penalty. Every person convicted of a violation of this section shall
be punished by, a fine of not exceeding $200.
(Ord. 78-1, passed 3-21-1978; Ord. 2015-06, passed 4-21-2015)
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.25  AUTHORITY TO ERECT STOP SIGNS.
   (A)   There may be installed at such points on streets and avenues in the
City of Canton, as may be directed by the City Council, appropriate signs
notifying drivers of vehicles to come to a full stop.
   (B)   The signs, devices or marks are to bear the word “STOP” and to be
located in such position and to be provided with letters of a size to be
clearly legible from a distance of at least 100 feet along the street upon
which the sign is placed.
   (C)   All such signs shall be illuminated at night or so placed as to be
illuminated by street lights or by the headlights of approaching motor
vehicles.
   (D)   Whenever any such sign has been created it shall be unlawful for the
driver or operator of any vehicle to fail to stop in obedience thereto.
   (E)   The operator of any vehicle who has come to a full stop as required
above shall be subject to the usual right of way prescribed by law.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26  EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.
   The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall
stop the vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk or onto the
sidewalk area extending across any alley, yielding the right of way to any
pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid collision, and upon entering the
roadway shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.27  STOP WHEN TRAFFIC OBSTRUCTED.
   No driver shall enter an intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is
sufficient space on the other side of the intersection or crosswalk to
accommodate the vehicle he or she is operating without obstructing the passage
of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic control signal
indication to proceed.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.28  UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLE.
   No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, and effectively setting the brake
thereon, and, when standing upon any grade, turning the front wheels to the
curb or side of the highway.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.29  FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not
follow any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than 500
feet or drive into or park the vehicle within the block where the fire
apparatus has stopped to answer a fire alarm.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.30  CROSSING FIRE HOSE.
   No driver of any vehicle shall drive over an unprotected hose of a Fire
Department when laid down on any street or private driveway to be used at any
fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department official in
command.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.31  PUTTING GLASS AND THE LIKE ON HIGHWAY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottle, glass,
nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle upon such highway.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.32  REMOVING MATERIALS FROM HIGHWAY.
   (A)   Any person who drops, or permits to be dropped or thrown, upon any
highway any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the same
or cause it to be removed.
   (B)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the highway from the
vehicle.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.33  MUFFLERS; PREVENTION OF NOISE.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle shall at all times be equipped with a muffler in
good working order and in constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual
noise and annoying smoke and no person shall use a muffler, cutout, by-pass or
similar device upon a motor vehicle on a highway.
   (B)   The engine and power mechanism of every motor vehicle shall be so
equipped and adjusted as to prevent the escape of the excessive fumes or smoke.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.34  DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR PROCESSION.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this chapter.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic control signals or police officers.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.35  DRIVERS IN A PROCESSION.
   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to the
right hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle ahead
as closely as is practical and safe.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.36  FUNERAL PROCESSIONS TO BE IDENTIFIED.
   A funeral composed of a procession of vehicles shall be identified as such
by the display upon the outside of each vehicle of a pennant or other
identifying insignia or by such other method as may be determined and
designated by the traffic division.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.37  LIMITATIONS ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless the movement can be
made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.38  RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES.
   A person operating a motorcycle shall not ride other than upon the permanent
and regular seat attached thereto or carry any other person nor shall any other
person ride upon such motorcycle other than upon a firmly attached seat to the
rear or side of the operator.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.39  CLINGING TO MOVING VEHICLE.
   Any person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates
or any toy vehicle shall not attach the same or himself or herself to any
moving vehicle upon any roadway.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.40  OPENING OF VEHICLE DOORS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, operator or other person to open the
door of a vehicle or to step from a parked vehicle into a roadway or sidewalk
in such a manner as to interfere with or impede the progress of any vehicle or
pedestrian.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES
§ 70.55  PAYMENT OF FINE.
   Any person who has received any notice to appear in answer to a traffic
charge under this chapter may, within the time specified in the notice, appear
and answer the charge set forth in the notice by paying a prescribed fine.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.56  DISPOSITION OF FINES AND FORFEITURES.
   All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the forfeiture of
bail of any person charged with a violation of any of the provisions of this
title shall be paid into the city treasury and deposited in the general fund.
Any person who has been charged with violation of any provision of this title
may pay such fine at the office of the Municipal Court and be discharged from
any prosecution thereon.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.57  FAILURE TO OBEY NOTICE OF SUMMONS.
   (A)   Any person who violates his or her written promise to appear, given to
an officer upon an arrest for any traffic violation is guilty of a misdemeanor
regardless of the disposition of the charge on which he or she was originally
arrested.
   (B)   Any driver of any motor vehicle who unlawfully neglects to answer to
the charges set forth in a written notice affixed to the motor vehicle by a
police officer as provided by any ordinance of this city is guilty of a
misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of the charge for which notice was
originally given.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.58  UNLAWFUL TO GIVE WRONG NAME OR ADDRESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person when giving a written promise to appear,
or given a written notice by any police officer to appear before the Municipal
Court of the City of Canton or the Justice of Peace Court with jurisdiction to
answer for an offense against any law of this state, or any ordinances of the
City of Canton, to give an assumed or fictitious name or a false place of
residence or address, or any other than the true name and the true place of his
or her residence or address, upon the request of the officer.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.59  VEHICLES MAY BE REMOVED AND IMPOUNDED.
   Any vehicle parked in violation of the traffic ordinances of the City of
Canton at a place where parking is prohibited or parking time is limited may be
removed and impounded by the Traffic Division and an impounding fee of $2
assessed against and collected from the owner or driver of the vehicle before
the release of the vehicle. The payment of this impounding fee shall not excuse
the owner or driver of the vehicle from the charge of violating the traffic
ordinance prohibiting or limiting the parking.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.60  EMERGENCY CLAUSE.
   The fact that traffic on the streets of the City of Canton has greatly
increased with the growth of the city’s population and the problem of
increasing traffic congestion in the business areas of the City of Canton and
the fact that this chapter is needed to protect the safety and general welfare
of the citizens of the City of Canton creates an emergency and an imperative
public necessity for the immediate preservation of the public welfare and
safety which requires the suspension of the rule requiring ordinances to be
read on three separate days before the final passage thereof; wherefore, the
rules are hereby suspended, and this chapter shall be effective from and after
its final passage, and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 64-12, passed 12-21-1964)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this title an act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or wherever in this title the doing
of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful,
and no specific penalty is otherwise provided in this code of ordinances, the
violation shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense of the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day a violation of this code or of any ordinance continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any provisions of §
70.10(A), (B), (C), (D) or (E) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by a fine of not less than $5 nor more than $500 for each offense, and
a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2007-37, passed 11-20-2007)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Section
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop intersections
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Speed limit. 
      (1)   The maximum prima facie speed limit be set at 35 mph for all
sections of Cherry Creek between College street and Old Kaufman Road, and at 25
mph for all sections of Cherry Creek between College Street and State highway
243.
      (2)   The maximum prima facie speed limit is to be set at 25 mph for all
sections of Sides Circle.
   (B)   Signs, erection of. The staff shall cause to be erected appropriate
signage giving notice of the speed limits established herein.
   (C)   Effect of prior law.  An offense committed before the effective date
of this section is governed by prior law in effect when the offense was
committed and the former law is continued in effect for this purpose.
   (D)   Penalty.  Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the
provisions or terms of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction in the Municipal Court of the City of Canton, Texas, shall be
subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of $200 for each offense, and each and
every day the violation is continued shall be deemed to constitute a separate
offense.
   (E)   Effective date.  This section shall take effect immediately from and
after its passage; however, the speed limit established herein shall not take
effect until the appropriate signage giving notice of the speed limit has been
erected.
(Ord. 2007-36, passed 12-18-2007; Ord. 2020-9, passed 6-16-2020)
SCHEDULE II.  STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop sign designated.  It is hereby provided that a stop sign shall be
erected at the address listed below. Every driver of a vehicle shall stop at
this sop sign, except when directed to proceed by a Police Officer or traffic
control signal, and it shall be unlawful for any driver of any vehicle to fail
to bring the vehicle to a full and complete stop as above directed.
 
Street           Location
On Forrest Drive Both intersections with Sides Circles (north and southbound)
On Sides Circle  Both intersections with Forrest Drive (westbound)
 
   (B)   Posting of stop sign.  The City Council is hereby directed to post the
appropriate traffic control sign in accordance with division (A) above.
   (C)   Penalty.  Any person, firm, corporation, or business entity violating
this section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof may be fined a sum not exceeding $200 for each offense, plus court
costs. Each additional violation under this section shall constitute a separate
offense. The penal provisions imposed under this section shall not preclude the
City of Canton from filing suit to enjoin the violation. The City of Canton
retains all legal rights and remedies available to it pursuant to local, state
and federal law.
   (D)   Effective date.  This section shall become effective immediately upon
it passage and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 2008-08, passed 5-20-2008)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking zones
   
II.   Two hour parking zones
SCHEDULE I.  NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   When signs are erected in the following locations reading
substantially "No Parking, Tow-Away Zone", no person shall park or stand any
vehicle on the following parts of streets at any time, including, but not
limited to Sundays and Holidays.
      (1)   Both sides of Buffalo Street from Peace Street north to Groves
Street.
      (2)   Both sides of Capitol Street from Peace Street north to Groves
Street.
      (3)   Both sides of Dallas Street from Grand Saline Street east to Main
Street.
      (4)   Both sides of Tyler Street from Grand Saline Street east to Main
Street.
      (5)   Both sides of Terrell Street from Grand Saline Street east to Trade
Days Blvd.
      (6)   Both sides of Groves Street from Grand Saline Street east to Trade
Days Blvd.
   (B)   Towing provisions.  The Police Department is directed to cause to be
towed away any vehicle found parked or standing in violation of division (A)
above; and the owner of such vehicle shall be civilly liable to the person
doing such towing for the reasonable cost thereof.
   (C)   Penalties.  Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine not less than $5 nor
more than $500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2009-14, passed 4-23-2009)
SCHEDULE II.  TWO HOUR PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   When signs are erected in the following locations reading
substantially "Two Hour Parking, Tow- Away Zone", no person shall park or stand
any vehicle on the following parts of streets for periods exceeding two hours
between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
      (1)   Both sides of Buffalo Street from Tyler Street north to Dallas
Street.
      (2)   Both sides of Capitol Street from Tyler Street north to Dallas
Street.
      (3)   Both sides of Dallas Street from Buffalo Street east to Capitol
Street.
      (4)   Both sides of Tyler Street from Buffalo Street east to Capitol
Street.
      (5)   North side of Terrell Street from Buffalo Street to Grand saline
Street, including any city-owned property adjoining Terrell Street.
      (6)   Both sides of Buffalo Street from Groves Street to Terrell Street.
   (B)   Towing provisions.  The Police Department is directed to cause to be
towed away any vehicle found parked or standing in violation of division (A)
above; and the owner of such vehicle shall be civilly liable to the person
doing such towing for the reasonable cost thereof.
   (C)   Penalties.  Any person violating any provision of this schedule shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine not less than $5 nor
more than $500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2009-14, passed 4-23-2009; Ord. 2013-13, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2016-12,
passed 5-17-2016; Ord. 2017-18, passed 10-17-2017)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   LAKE CANTON; MILL CREEK RESERVOIR
      
93.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
94.   ANIMALS
      
95.   PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 90:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Use of skates, skateboards, bicycles and the like
   
90.02   Sales by vendors
   
90.03   Burying underground cable, wiring, fiber optics and telecommunications
facilities
Parades and Demonstrations
   
90.10   Definitions
   
90.11   Parades
   
90.12   Demonstrations
   
90.13   Permits
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  USE OF SKATES, SKATEBOARDS, BICYCLES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Prohibition. It shall be unlawful for any person to ride, push, wear
or maneuver skates, skateboards, bicycles and other similar conveyances on,
along, or over the streets, sidewalks and commercial or industrial-zoned
districts.
   (B)   Regulations and requirements.
      (1)   It shall be a defense to prosecution hereunder that such skates,
skateboards, bicycles or other similar conveyances were purchased in the
downtown section of the City of Canton, Texas, and are being transported
therefrom.
      (2)   It shall be a defense to prosecution hereunder that such skates,
skateboards, bicycles or other similar conveyances were purchased in the
shopping center and are being transported therefrom.
   (C)   Persons responsible.
      (1)   The term PERSON as utilized in this section shall include the
parents of minors or other persons having custody, control or supervision of
the minor or minors.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be subject
to having the skates, skateboards, bicycles or other similar conveyances
removed from his or her person and held by the city and punished by a fine not
to exceed $200 for each occurrence. The property shall be held by the city
until the satisfactory disposition of the fine.
(Ord. 88-4, passed 8-16-1988)
§ 90.02  SALES BY VENDORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CITY STREET or RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Any street, thoroughfare, alley or right-
of-way maintained by the City of Canton, Texas, and owned by the City of
Canton, Texas or the State of Texas located within the city limits of Canton,
Texas.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY.  Any items of property offered for sale by a vendor.
   (B)   Specific violations. It shall be deemed a violation of this section
for any person, persons, firm, corporation or partnership to offer for sale or
to store items of personal property on any public street, road, right-of-way or
alley owned and maintained by the City of Canton, Texas, or by the State
Highway Department which is located within the corporate city limits of Canton,
Texas.
   (C)   Penalty for violation. The violation of any provision of this section
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $1 but not more than $200, and
each separate day of a violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 2-11-1986)
§ 90.03  BURYING UNDERGROUND CABLE, WIRING, FIBER OPTICS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES.
   (A)   Prohibition.  The burying of underground cable, wiring, fiber optics
and telecommunications facilities within public rights-of-way inside the city
limits is hereby prohibited except in new subdivisions and by special
permission of the City Council.
   (B)   Violations and penalties.  Any person, firm or corporation found
guilty of violating any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $200, together with the costs of such prosecution.  Each day
during which a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 2-22-2011)
PARADES AND DEMONSTRATIONS
§ 90.10  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEMONSTRATION.  A public display of the attitude of assembled persons toward
a person, cause, issue or other matter
   PARADE. Any march or procession consisting of three or more persons, animals
or vehicles, or a combination thereof, except funeral processions, upon any
public street, sidewalk or alley, which does not comply with normal and usual
traffic regulations or controls
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 90.11  PARADES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group or organization to conduct
a parade upon the streets of the city without first obtaining a permit from the
Chief of Police.
   (B)   Exceptions.  This subchapter shall not apply to, and no permit shall
be required for, the following (provided all federal, state and local laws,
rules, regulations and ordinances are followed):
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   The armed forces of the United States of America, the military
forces of the State of Texas, and the forces of the city's police and fire
departments acting within the course and scope of their respective duties; and
      (3)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational or school activities, providing such conduct is under the immediate
direction and supervision of the proper school authorities or a government
agency acting within the scope of its functions.
   (C)   Parade route.  The parade shall only be conducted along approved
parade routes within the city or on other streets with the special permission
of the City Council. Should the application for a permit reveal that the parade
route requested would interfere with the orderly flow of vehicle and pedestrian
traffic, the Chief of Police shall have authority to establish a reasonable
alternate route and regulate the width of the parade.
   (D)   Liability.  The applicant and any other person, organization, firm and
corporation on whose behalf the application is made shall contract and agree
that they will, jointly and severally, indemnify and hold harmless the City of
Canton against liability for any and all claims for damages to property or
injury to or death of persons arising out of or resulting from the issuance of
the permit or the conduct of the parade or its participants.
   (E)   Compliance.  It shall be unlawful for any person participating in any
parade for which a permit has been issued to fail to comply with all directions
and conditions of such permit and all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (F)   Conduct.
      (1)   No objects shall be thrown by a parade participant or spectator
(such as candy, beads, promotional items, etc).
      (2)   No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or interfere
with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal
participating or used in a parade.
      (3)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons
comprising a parade when such vehicles or persons are in motion and are
conspicuously designated as a parade.
      (4)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority when reasonably
necessary to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. The police shall
direct traffic or set barriers to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any
person to park or leave unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 2-17-2009)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12  DEMONSTRATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group or organization to conduct
a demonstration upon the streets, rights-of-way, or other public property of
the city, without first obtaining a permit from the Chief of Police.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, group or organization to impede
the flow of traffic or create a safety hazard during a demonstration.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 2-17-2009)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13  PERMITS.
   (A)   The application for a permit shall be submitted to the Chief of Police
at least seven days prior to the proposed event and shall include the name,
address, phone number and drivers license number of the person making such
application; the name, address, and phone number of the organization, firm or
corporation that is being represented; a description of the purpose and nature
of the parade or demonstration; and the specific dates, times, locations and/or
routes of the parade or demonstration.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a parade or demonstration permit,
the Chief of Police shall furnish to the applicant within three business days
appropriate approval or denial of the permit. As a condition of approving
parade or demonstration permits, the Chief of Police may specify terms and
conditions he or she deems to be in the best interests of the city. The permit
shall state the period of time allowed for such use and the purpose for which
said area or street(s) shall be used.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall issue a parade or demonstration permit
conditioned upon the applicant's written agreement to comply with the terms of
the permit unless the Chief of Police finds that:
      (1)   The time, route and size of the parade or demonstration will
disrupt, to an unreasonable extent, the movement of other traffic;
      (2)   The parade or demonstration is of a size or nature that requires
the diversion of so great a number of police officers of the city to properly
police the line of movement and the areas contiguous thereto that allowing the
parade or demonstration would deny reasonable police protection to the city;
and
      (3)   The parade or demonstration will interfere with another parade or
demonstration for which a permit has been issued.
   (D)   The Chief of Police shall deny an application for a parade or
demonstration permit and notify the applicant of the denial where:
      (1)   The Chief of Police makes any finding contrary to the findings
required to be made for the issuance of a permit;
      (2)   The information contained in the application is found to be false
or nonexistent in any material detail;
      (3)   The applicant or a person named on the application is found to have
a criminal history which might bring perspective harm to citizens; and
      (4)   The applicant refuses to agree to abide by or comply with all
conditions of the permit.
   (E)   This process is in no way intended to prohibit anyone's right to free
speech on any issue.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 2-17-2009)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of §§
90.10 through
90.13 is guilty of a misdemeanor which is punishable by a fine not less than
$100 and not to exceed $300.
   (B)   Each occurrence of a violation of §§
90.10 through
90.13, or, in the case of continuous violations, each day a violation occurs or
continues, constitutes a separate offense and may be punished separately.
(Ord. 2009-04, passed 2-17-2009)
CHAPTER 91:  FIREWORKS; FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Fireworks
   
91.01   Storage of fireworks
   
91.02   Sale of fireworks
   
91.03   Discharge of fireworks
   
91.04   Authorization for public display
   
91.05   Repeal
Fire Prevention Code
   
91.20   Adoption
   
91.21   Enforcement
   
91.22   Definition
   
91.23   Limits; storage
   
91.24   Modifications
   
91.25   Appeals
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 91.01  STORAGE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall store any fireworks anywhere in
the city, except as necessary for the performance of a public exhibition to be
held in a safe place, securely locked or guarded so that no child or other
person shall have access thereto, and protected from fire hazards.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal of the city shall inspect the storage to determine
whether the same complies with the terms of this section.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 6-20-2006)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall sell any fireworks anywhere in the
city.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 6-20-2006)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall discharge any fireworks anywhere in the
city, except at a public exhibition held pursuant to authorization granted as
provided hereinafter.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 6-20-2006)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  AUTHORIZATION FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY.
   Authorization for a public display of fireworks shall be granted by the City
Fire Marshal. No such authorization shall be issued without a permit from the
State Fire Marshal’s office, nor if it appears from the information available
to the Fire Marshal that there are substantial dangers to people or property
due to the location, the fireworks proposed to be used, or the procedures
proposed to be used.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 6-20-2006)
§ 91.05  REPEAL.
   That all ordinances or parts of ordinances conflicting with any of the
provisions of this subchapter are hereby repealed, including the original
fireworks ordinance (93-03 passed by the Canton City Council on 3-16-1993) and
Ord. 95-10, passed by the Canton City Council on 11-28-1995, which amended § 3
of Ord. 93-03 by prohibiting the discharge of fireworks inside the city limits
except in a designated area and on designated dates.
(Ord. 2006-10, passed 6-20-2006)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 91.20  ADOPTION.
   There is hereby adopted by the Council for the purpose of prescribing
regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire or
explosion, that certain code known as the International Fire Code, 2003
Edition, save and except such portions as are hereinafter deleted, modified or
amended (by §
91.24 below), of which code not less than three copies have been and now are
filed in the office of the Clerk of the City of Canton and the same are hereby
adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and from the
date on which this subchapter shall take effect, the provisions thereof shall
be controlling within the limits of the City of Canton, Texas.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1969)
§ 91.21  ENFORCEMENT.
   The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Chief of the Fire
Department.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1969)
§ 91.22  DEFINITION.
   Wherever the word MUNICIPALITY is used in the code hereby adopted, it shall
be held to mean the City of Canton, Texas.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1969)
§ 91.23  LIMITS; STORAGE.
   The limits referred to in the International Fire Code, 2003 Edition hereby
adopted in which storage of flammable liquids in outside aboveground tanks is
prohibited, the limits referred to in the International Fire Code, 2003 Edition
hereby adopted, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted,
and the limits referred to in the International Fire Code, 2003 Edition hereby
adopted, in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are
hereby established as follows: city limits.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1969)
§ 91.24  MODIFICATIONS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have power to modify any of the
provisions of the code hereby adopted upon application in writing by the owner
or lessee, or his or her duly authorized agent, when there are practical
difficulties in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the code, provided
that the spirit of the code shall be observed, public safety secured and
substantial justice done. The particulars of the modification when granted or
allowed and the decisions of the Chief of the Fire Department thereon shall be
entered upon the records of the department and a signed copy shall be furnished
the applicant.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1969)
§ 91.25  APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief of the Fire Department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Chief of the Fire Department to Council within 30 days from the
date of the decision appealed.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1969)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any
provisions or terms of §§
91.01 through
91.05 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of $500 for each
offense, together with the costs of the prosecution.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.20 through
91.25 or fail to comply therewith, or who shall violate or fail to comply with
any order made thereunder, or who shall build in violation of any detailed
statement of specifications or plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any
certificate of permit issued thereunder, and from which no appeal has been
taken, or who shall fail to comply with such an order as affirmed or modified
by the Council or by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the time fixed
herein, shall severally for each and every such violation and noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than
$10 nor more than $100. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall
be required to correct or remedy such violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and when not otherwise specified, each ten days that prohibited
conditions are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Ord. passed 7-21-1969; Ord. 2006-10, passed 6-20-2006)
CHAPTER 92:  LAKE CANTON; MILL CREEK RESERVOIR
Section
   
92.01   Authority and liability
   
92.02   Fishing and hunting
   
92.03   Water skiing and personal watercraft
   
92.04   Boats and boating
   
92.05   General and miscellaneous provisions
   
92.06   Exceptions
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  AUTHORITY AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Authority of city police on reservoir property. Any police officer of
the city shall have authority to arrest any person on any property owned and
used by the city for reservoir purposes for violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Power and duties of authorized personnel of the City of Canton.
Authorized personnel shall have full charge and control of the waters of the
reservoir and grounds of Mill Creek Reservoir (Canton City Lake) and it shall
be his duty at al] times to command and preserve the peace and patrol such
waters and grounds or to cause the same to be done for the purpose of enforcing
obedience and strict compliance upon the part of any person with the terms,
provisions and conditions of this chapter and all other laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations of the city relating to the waters of Mill Creek Reservoir and
the grounds adjacent thereto, and to make arrests upon the violation of any
provision of this chapter or other ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Exclusion of offenders. The Chief of Police or any city police officer
or authorized city personnel shall have the right and authority to exclude the
premises of Mill Creek Reservoir of any person found violating the terms and
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Liability of city. The city shall in no event be liable to any person
due to the loss of or damage to any property that may be placed in or upon Mill
Creek Reservoir nor shall the city be liable in any event to any person due to
personal injuries or loss of life that may be sustained by any person in or
upon Mill Creek Reservoir, Any person entering in or upon Mill Creek Reservoir
shall do so at his or her sole risk, and shall not be privileged to enter or
remain in or upon Mill Creek Reservoir save and except under the terms and
provisions of this chapter and such other applicable ordinances, resolutions
and regulations that have been or may hereafter be adopted by the city.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 9-29-1998; Ord. 2009-18, passed 6-16-2009; Ord. 2017-05,
passed 2-21-2017)
§ 92.02  FISHING AND HUNTING.
   (A)   Commercial fishing prohibited. No person shall engage in commercial
fishing of any kind. No person shall use or operate a boat of any kind or
description in the waters of the Reservoir for the purpose of catching and
taking fish or game for market or sale.
   (B)   Fishing prohibited near intake structure. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fish within a 200-foot radius of the water intake structure.
   (C)   Bowfishing of carp.  It shall be unlawful for any person to bow fish
for carp from any city-owned lake.
   (D)   Other statutes to apply. All federal, state, and county fishing laws
and statutes shall apply on all city property.
   (E)   Causing hazard to boats. It shall be unlawful for any person to attach
any glass, metal, or other solid floating object hazardous to boats, to any
trotline, gang hook, or fish net set out in the waters of Mill Creek Reservoir.
Flexible plastic bottles or foam floats shall not be a hazard to boats.
   (F)   Use of metal line cable prohibited. It shall be lawful for any person
to place or extend any metal line or cable in, over, on, or across the water of
Mill Creek Reservoir or any of its tributaries.
   (G)   Nets, trotlines and the like - general. It shall be unlawful to fish
with any type of nets, trotlines, or traps.
   (H)   Nets, trotlines, and the like - removal. Any trotline, net, or similar
apparatus, set out on or in the waters of Mill Creek Reservoir or its
tributaries is hereby declared to be a nuisance, endangering the health, safety
and welfare of the general public; and any law enforcement officer or
authorized personnel shall be authorized to immediately remove and take
possession of such trottine, net, or similar apparatus, in order to abate such
nuisance.
   (I)   Hunting. Except as provided in this section, it shall be unlawful for
a person to carry, transport, shoot, discharge, or hunt with a bow, crossbow,
slingshot gun, firearms or any type of weapon in, on, over, across or upon Mill
Creek Reservoir or any city property adjacent thereto.
      (1)   Bows and arrows may be used for fishing only in accordance with
Texas Parks and Wildlife Department Regulations.
      (2)   There shall be no hunting other than duck hunting during open duck
season, and then only with a shotgun from areas designated by the City of
Canton as hunting areas. (
See Exhibit A).
   (J)   Duck blinds. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to construct any blind or blinds for the purpose of killing or taking ducks in
the waters of Mill Creek Reservoir.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 9-29-1998; Ord. 2009-18, passed 6-16-2009; Ord. 2017-05,
passed 2-21-2017; Ord. 2018-05, passed 2-20-2018)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  WATER SKIING AND PERSONAL WATERCRAFT.
   The following is prohibited on the waters of Mill Creek Reservoir, otherwise
known as Canton City Lake:
   (A)   The pulling of any person behind a boat on any object designed or
operated in such a manner to carry one or more persons, including but not
limited to, skiing tubing, or boarding.
   (B)   The use of personal watercraft. Personal watercraft is defined as any
type of motorboat which is specifically designed to be operated by a person or
persons sitting, standings or kneeling on the vessel rather than in the
conventional manner of sitting or standing inside a vessel, including but not
limited to, jet skis.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 9-29-1998; Am. Ord. 2009-18, passed 6-16-2009; Ord. 2017-
05, passed 2-21-2017)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  BOATS AND BOATING.
   (A)   Texas Water Safety Act adopted by reference. The Texas Water Safety
Act (and any amendment thereto) is hereby adopted by reference and shall be
followed as if set out verbatim in this chapter. Any acts not specifically
mentioned herein are governed by the Texas Water Safety Act.
   (B)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or
cause to be operated, any boat upon the waters owned or controlled by the city
unless such boat has first met all requirements of the Texas Water Safety Act
and there has been obtained a City of Canton launch permit. Such permits shall
be issued by the Canton Police Department at a cost of $25 for a one year
period or $3 for a one day launch permit; however, launch permits shall be free
to the citizens of Canton, Texas.
   (C)   Speed. The speed of every boat or other craft around and near docks or
other landing places and in channels shall be reduced so as to avoid disturbing
such docks and landing places and boats and to prevent the washing of channel
banks. In no event shall any craft be operated at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the circumstances then existing When such craft is
within 150 feet of swimming areas, public launching ramp, dock, boat house,
fishing pier or other structures, or person engaged in fishing or within 100
feet of any shoreline, the craft should leave no visible wake except in case of
an emergency.
   (D)   Tow boats. It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in towing of
any type boat, barge or other device to come within 100 feet of any other boat
or craft, with the exception of passage through a connecting channel.
   (E)   Muffling devices. It shall be unlawful to operate a boat propelled in
whole or in part by gas, gasoline or naphtha unless the same is provided with a
Coast Guard approved muffler. The discharge of cooling water through the
exhaust of an inboard engine shall be considered an adequate muffling device.
   (F)   Traffic rules. The channel of Mill Creek Reservoir will be used in a
manner that is reasonable and prudent to the conditions. All coves, docks and
launch areas are no-wake, idle only zones.
   (G)   Water intake stations. It shall be unlawful for any person to anchor,
moor, or stop a boat within 200 feet of any water intake station.
   (H)   Life preservers. All children 12 years of age or younger shall be
required to wear a U.S. Coast Guard approved life preserver at all times.
   (I)   Anchoring at piers, buoys, and the like. It shall be unlawful for any
boat or barge to anchor or tie up at any posted sign, buoy or barrel of the
waters of Mill Creek Reservoir or its tributaries except in case of emergency.
   (J)   Unattended boats. Except in cases of emergency, it shall be unlawful
for any person to leave a boat unattended on the waters of Mill Creek Reservoir
or any of its tributaries.
   (K)   Obstruction of ramps. It shall be unlawful for any person to block or
swim in any public boat loading ramp leading to the waters of Mill Creek
Reservoir or its tributaries except while loading or unloading a boat.
   (L)   Removal from lake. The City of Canton, acting by and through
authorized personnel, may require the removal of any boat or other craft from
Milk Creek Reservoir if such boat or other craft is in an unsafe operating
condition. In the event of non-compliance by the owner to such order, the craft
will be removed from the lake by the City of Canton and the owner will be
assessed all costs.
   (M)   Barges.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place
any barge-type craft on Mill creek Reservoir which is not supported by
polyester foam flotation units, unsinkable drums, metal pontoons, or fiberglass
pontoons permanently attached to the vessel by a mechanical device.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place barrels, pontoons or
other such containers upon or in the waters of Mill Creek Reservoir except of
the use described above. The City of Canton may employ such devices for markers
or other similar uses.
   (N)   Abandoned Barges or boats.
      (1)   Any barge or boat subject to registration and inspection under the
provisions of these rules which shall be found upon the waters of Mill Creek
Reservoir or upon any public property immediateEy adjacent thereto and which
shall not have affixed thereto a currently valid registration sticker issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to be an abandoned barge or boat.
      (2)   Authorized personnel of the City of Canton may take into custody
any abandoned barge or boat found upon the water or any public property
immediately adjacent to Mill Creek Reservoir.
      (3)   When any abandoned barge or boat shall be taken into custody under
the authority of these rules, the authorized personnel shall notify within ten
days thereof, by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, the
last known registered owner and all lienholders of record that the barge or
boat has been taken into custody. The notice shall describe the barge or boat
by size, color and general description and shall set forth the location of the
facility where the barge or boat is being held, and shall further inform the
owner and any lienholder of their right to reclaim the barge or boat within 30
days after the date of the notice upon payment of all towing, preservation and
storage charges resulting from placing the barge or boat in custody and upon
paying the required registration and inspection fees as may be required by
these rules. The notice shall further state that the failure of the owner or
lienholders to exercise their right to reclaim the barge or boat within the
time provided shalE be deemed a waiver by the owner and all lienholders of all
right, title and interest in the barge or boat and their consent to the sale of
the abandoned barge or boat at a public auction.
      (4)   If the identity of the last registered owner cannot be determined,
or the registration contains no address for the owner, or if it is impossible
to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and addresses of all
fienholders, notice by one publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
Van Zandt County, shall be sufficient to meet all requirements of notice
pursuant to these rules. Such notice by publication may contain multiple
listings of abandoned barges or boats. Any such notice shall be within the time
requirements prescribed for notice by registered or certified mail and shall
have the same contents required for a notice by registered or certified mail.
      (5)   If any abandoned barge or boat has not been reclaimed by the owner
or lienholders as provided for herein, the City of Canton shall sell the
abandoned barge or boat by advertised bids. The purchaser of the barge or boat
shall take title to the barge or boat free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership, shall receive a sales receipt from the City of Canton and shall be
entitled to register the purchased barge or boat as provided for herein. From
the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned barge or boat, the City of Canton
shafl reimburse itself for the expenses of the sale, the cost of towing,
preserving and storing the barge or boat which resulted from placing the
abandoned barge or boat in
 
2019 S-2
14   Canton - General Regulations
custody and all notice of publication incurred pursuant to these rules. Any
remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the barge
or boat or entitled lienholder for 90 days, and then shall be deposited in a
special fund which shall remain available for payment of auction, towing,
preserving, storage and alt notice and publication costs which result from
placing other abandoned barges or boats in custody whenever the proceeds from a
sale of such other abandoned barges or boats are insufficient to meet these
expenses and costs.
      (6)   In the event there are no purchasers of the barge or boat at a
public auction held pursuant to these rules; the City of Canton shall purchase
same for its accrued costs of conducting the auction, towing, preservino
storage and all notice and publication costs incurred, and any disposal of
same, including the destruction thereof, as may be proper under the
circumstances.
   (O)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place
or maintain a toilet on any boat or barge except unattached portable chemical
toilets. Such toilet must be approved by authorized personnel before being
taken aboard the craft.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to keep all barges and
boats properly moored. There shall be a fee levied by the City of Canton of
$100 for reclaiming a derelict boat and $150 for reclaiming a derelict barge.
      (3)   Operation of all craft shall be subject to all provisions of the
Texas Water Safety Act as it now exists or hereafter may be amended, and to all
state acts, statutes and regulations applicable to the operation and control of
water craft.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 9-29-1998; Am. Ord. 2009-18, passed 6-16-2009; Ord. 2017-
05, passed 2-21-2017)
§ 92.05  GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
(A)   General.
      (1)   Areas for lease. There shall be set aside certain areas adjacent to
Mill Creek Reservoir for development by the City as public parks and picnic
areas.
      (2)   Dam. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an automobile,
motor scooter or motorcycle upon the dam of Mill Creek Reservoir. Foot traffic
and fishing are prohibited on the dam.
      (3)   Bow fishing.  A method of fishing that uses specialized archery
equipment to shoot and retrieve fish. Fish are shot with a barbed arrow that is
attached with special line to a reel mounted on the bow.
      (4)   Raw water intake tower. It shall be unlawful for any person to come
within a 200-foot radius of the water intake tower.
      (5)   Roads. The maximum speed limit on all lake roads constructed by the
City of Canton shall be 30 m.p.h. or slower as marked and it shall be unlawful
for any person to drive an automobile, motorcycle or other motor vehicle
thereon in excess of the applicable maximum speed limit.
      (6)   Roadway. The portion of a highway, other than the berm or shoulder,
that is improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      (7)   Parking of motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to
leave unattended any motor vehicle with a boat trailer in tow within 50 feet of
the water of Mill Creek Reservoir unless in a properly-designated area for
public parking, and it shall be unlawful to park vehicles in any designated
safety or turn around zone except where necessary for loading or unloading a
boat.
      (8)   Signs and markers. Authorized personnel of the City of Canton shall
place signs and markers on the waters of Mill Creek Reservoir and the public
lands adjacent thereto as are required to mark and specify the restricted areas
as provided in this chapter and for informational purposes to assist users in
compliance with the terms of this chapter.
      (9)   Damage to signs, markers, canopies, picnic tables, and the like. It
shall be unlawful for any person to deface, destroy or other damage any sign,
marker, canopy, picnic table or other structure on the waters of Mill Creek
Reservoir or in the public lands immediately adjoining Mill Creek Reservoir or
its tributaries.
      (10)   Water sources. It shall be unlawful to obtain water from Mill
Creek Reservoir.
   (B)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any livestock
or fowls on city property of Mill Creek Reservoir.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cut any trees or brush on
any City-owned property at Mill Creek Reservoir without the approval of the
City of Canton. Sod shall not be disturbed unnecessarily,
      (3)   No special privileges of any kind or sort shall be issued any
person or group that will deviate from rules and regulations set forth by the
City Council.
      (4)   All rules and regulations adopted by the City of Canton for the
Mill Creek Reservoir property shall be available at the Canton Police
Department in Canton, Texas.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any use whatsoever of
the property belonging to another at Mill Creek Reservoir without the owner’s
permission.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump trash, brush or garbage
of any kind in Mill Creek Reservoir or on property adjoining Mill Creek
Reservoir.
      (7)   Ingress and egress across city-owned land from privately-owned land
to a Mill Creek Reservoir Road or public road is prohibited except by formal
contractual agreement approved by the City Council of the City of Canton,
Texas.
      (8)   No alcoholic beverages may be sold or consumed upon the waters or
upon the adjoining land of Mill Creek Reservoir.
      (9)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle or motorbike except on
designated roadways and designed parking facilities of Mill Creek Reservoir.
      (10)   No overnight camping will be allowed on the water of Mill Creek
Reservoir or the public lands immediately adjoining Mill Creek Reservoir.
      (11)   No persons shall be allowed on the public lands immediately
adjoining Mill Creek Reservoir or its tributaries between the hours of 30
minutes following sunset and 30 minutes prior to sunrise except for fishing,
for which a permit must first be obtained from the Canton Police Department.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 9-29-1998; Ord. 2009-18, passed 6-16-2009; Ord. 2017-05,
passed 2-21-2017; Ord. 2018-05, passed 2-20-2018)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Council may grant exceptions to the provisions and regulations of
this chapter where, in the sole discretion of the City Council such exception
is in the best interests of the people of the City of Canton.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 9-29-1998; Ord. 2009-18, passed 6-16-2009; Ord. 2017-05,
passed 2-21-2017)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
      Any person violating any of the terms of this chapter and upon conviction
thereof shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $200. such penalty may be
enforced in any court having jurisdiction thereof against any violation of this
chapter and may also be enforced in the Municipal Court; in addition to such
penalty, the right shall exist on behalf of the public health of the city, for
the authorized personnel or any person whose health may be affected thereby, to
bring any cause of action in any competent court by way of injunction or
otherwise against any person violating any of the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 94-13, passed 9-29-1998; Ord. 2009-18, passed 6-16-2009; Ord. 2017-05,
passed 2-21-2017)
EXHIBIT A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f70f84ccb8c3c9d89adba8468bb944d970d9eaf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-816.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 93:  PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
General Nuisances
   
93.01   Nuisances in general
   
93.02   Regulating plants and weeds
   
93.03   Open burning
   
93.04   Noise
Junked Vehicles
   
93.15   General declaration
   
93.16   Definitions
   
93.17   Prohibited acts
   
93.18   Exceptions
   
93.19   Administration and enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL NUISANCES
§ 93.01  NUISANCES IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      NUISANCE.  Any act, occupation or structure which at all times and under
any circumstances, regardless of location or surroundings, invades the rights
of others or endangers the health, comfort or safety of others.
   (B)   Specific violations.
      (1)   It shall be deemed a violation of this section for any property
owner to have on his or her property any open, abandoned appliances, i.e.
freezers, refrigerators, washers, dryers, gas or electric ranges, which are
accessible by entry onto the property. It shall be permissible to have such
appliances on one’s property if they are equipped with a lock and kept locked
at all times, or if the doors have been removed.
      (2)   It shall be deemed a violation of this section for any property
owner to have or maintain any structure or open-air system on his or her
property which serves as a breeding ground for flies and/or mosquitos.
   (C)   Penalty for violation. The violation of any provision of this section
shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $1 but not more than $200, and
each violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 11-21-1984)
§ 93.02  REGULATING PLANTS AND WEEDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner, lessee, tenant, occupant,
or any person in charge of any premises within the City of Canton, Texas, to
allow weeds to grow upon the premises, to allow weeds and grasses to grow in
excess of 12 inches upon the premises, or to allow garbage, trash or rubbish to
accumulate upon the premises.
   (B)   (1)   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur
or other weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the
city are hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful to permit
any such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, tenant, occupant or any
person in charge of any premises located within the City of Canton, Texas, to
permit or allow weeds, grasses or plants other than trees, bushes or flower or
other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding 12 inches.  Any such
plants or weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared a nuisance.
      (3)   It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or to permit the
growth of the bush of the species of tall, common European Barberry, also known
as Berberis Vulgaris or its horticultural varieties within the city.
   (C)   (1)   The accumulation of garbage and rubbish and other deleterious
substances on the premises of private residences, commercial institutions and
in streets and alleys greatly increases the danger of fire and spread of
infections, contagious and epidemic diseases and shall constitute a public
nuisance.
      (2)   Every owner or occupant or lessee of a house or building used for
residence, business or commercial purposes shall maintain litter collection,
including garbage and rubbish, and storage area in a clean condition and insure
that all garbage and rubbish is properly containerized.  Failure to so maintain
clean litter collection and storage area shall constitute a violation of this
section.
      (3)   Residential refuse containers shall be placed at the curb for
pickup no sooner than 12 hours prior to collection day.  Containers,
receptacles and any unaccepted waste or refuse must be removed no later than 12
hours after collection day.  Containers shall be placed at curbside or within
three feet of the road surface.  Containers must not block or be placed in the
path of the mailbox.
      (4)   All refuse containers shall securely contain all contents. 
Containers should be capable of being handled without spillage and all
container lids must be secure and kept closed.
      (5)   Special collection days will be designated by the Public Works
Department.  Collection times and dates will be made available through the
local media.
      (6)   Scavenging shall be prohibited.  No person shall remove waste from
any container located in the City of Canton except the owner of the container
or the owner's agent or servant or an employee of the City acting in the line
of duty.
      (7)   All litter, trash and rubbish subject to movement by the elements
shall be secured by the owners or occupants of the premises where it is found
before the same is allowed to be removed by the elements to adjoining premises.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of any person owning or controlling a house or
other building or premises, including vacant lots visible from any public place
or private premises, to maintain the premises in a reasonably clean and orderly
manner and to a standard conforming to other orderly premises in that
vicinity.  It shall be a violation of this section to abandon, neglect or
disregard the condition or appearance of any premises as so to permit it to
accumulate litter, trash and rubbish thereon.
      (9)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is in control of any
premises upon which is located or on whose behalf there is maintained any
container of refuse, waste or garbage which has been containerized in
accordance with a contract for its removal to allow that refuse, waste or
garbage to remain collected beyond the date provided by the contract for its
collection and removal, or in any case to allow that container to remain
unemptied for longer than 14 days or, in any case, until after that refuse,
waste or garbage creates any condition which is offensive to persons upon
private premises or a public place, or which constitutes a fire or health
hazard.
   (D)   It shall be the duty of the City Manager and/or the Building Inspector
to serve or cause to be served, either by personal service or by certified
mail, a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or
grasses are permitted to grow in violation of provisions of this section and/or
on which rubbish, trash or garbage is allowed to collect in violation of
provisions of this section and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within
ten days.
   (E)   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten days
and/or request a hearing before the City Council within the ten-day period, the
City Manager and/or Building Inspector and/or persons authorized by either of
these officials may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an account of
expense of the abatement, and the expense shall be charged and paid by the
owner or occupant.
   (F)   (1)   Charges for weed removal and/or trash, garbage or rubbish
removal shall be a lien upon the premises.  Whenever a bill for the charges
remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been rendered, the City Secretary may
file through the record of deeds of Van Zandt County a statement of lien
claim.  This statement shall contain a legal description of the premises, the
expenses and costs incurred and the date the weeds were cut or the rubbish was
removed, and a notice that the city claims a lien for this amount.
      (2)   Notice of the lien claim shall be mailed to the owner of the
premises at such address as is listed on the current tax roll.
      (3)   Failure of the Clerk of the City Secretary to record such lien
claim or to mail such notice, or failure of the owner to receive such notice,
shall not affect the right of the city to foreclose on the lien for such
charges as provided in the following division.
      (4)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed or grass cutting or
removal charges and/or for removal of garbage or rubbish shall be sold for
nonpayment of the same and the foreclosure of statutory liens.  Such
foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the City of Canton, Texas.
      (5)   The City Council, upon being notified by the City Secretary of the
need of foreclosure, shall then authorize the City Attorney, or any attorney
representing the city, to direct and institute such proceedings, in the name of
the city in any court having jurisdiction over such matters, against any
property for which such bill has remained unpaid for 60 days after it has been
rendered. 
   (G)   In addition to the above remedies, each individual violation of this
ordinance is declared a misdemeanor and is punishable as follows:
      (1)   First or second conviction.  For a person's first or second
conviction of violation of this section the court may impose a fine of not less
than $1 and not more than $200.
      (2)   Third or fourth conviction.  For a person's third or fourth
conviction or any subsequent conviction of violation of this section, the court
may impose a fine of not less than $201 and not more than $400.
      (3)   Each day a separate offense.  Each day that a violation of this
section is permitted to exist shall be deemed a separate offense for which a
separate fine may be assessed.
      (4)   Definitions.  For purposes of this division, the term CONVICTION
shall mean any instance in which the defendant was adjudged guilty or in which
the defendant entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere in return for a grant
of deferred disposition, regardless of whether the sentence for the offense was
ever imposed or whether final disposition was deferred and the complaint was
subsequently dismissed upon the defendant's successful compliance with the
requirements imposed as conditions of the deferred disposition.
   (H)   That this section shall take effect immediately from and after its
passage and the publication of the caption as the law in such cases provides.
(Ord. 88-11, passed 12-13-1988; Ord. 2007-16, passed 5-15-2007)
§ 93.03  OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE OFFICIAL. The Fire Marshal of the City of Canton or the Fire
Marshal's designee.
      OPEN BURNING.  The burning of materials wherein products of combustion
are emitted directly into the ambient air without passing through a stack or
chimney from an enclosed chamber. OPEN BURNING does not include road flares,
smudgepots and similar devices associated with safety or occupational uses
typically considered open flames or recreational fires.
      PERSON or INDIVIDUAL. Any individual, firm, association, partnership,
joint venture, or corporation.
      RECREATIONAL FIRE.  An outdoor fire burning materials other than rubbish
where the fuel being burned is contained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace,
barbeque grill or barbeque pit and has a total fuel area of three feet or less
in diameter and two feet or less in height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial,
cooking, warmth or similar purposes.
   (B)   Guidelines.
      (1)   (a)   General.  No person shall kindle or maintain any type of
outdoor burning, or authorize any such fire to be kindled or maintained,
without first obtaining a permit from the Fire Official or his or her
representative as required in § 105.6 of the 2003 International Fire Code.
         (b)   Exception.  Recreational fires do not require a permit. 
Recreational fires must be properly conducted and constantly attended.
      (2)   Open burning that does not meet local, state or federal regulations
and emission standards will not be allowed in the City of Canton.  Open burning
that causes hazardous fires or offensive or objectionable smoke or odor
emissions shall be prohibited.
      (3)   The Fire Official is authorized to order the extinguishment by the
permit holder or the Fire Department of any open burning which creates or adds
to a hazardous situation.
   (C)   Authorization.
      (1)   A non-refundable permit fee in the amount of $10 for domestic
burning and $200 for commercial burning will be charged for authorized burning
for land clearing, bon fires or fires to control pests or disease.  Burn
permits are good for five straight days.  The Fire Official may grant one
extension. 
      (2)   All persons who obtain permits for authorized fires shall contact
the Fire Department for a site inspection to ensure the following:
         (a)   1.   General.  The location for the open burning shall not be
less than 50 feet from any structure and provision shall be made to prevent the
fire from spreading to within 50 feet of any structure.
            2.   Exceptions.
               a.   Fires in approved containers that are not less than 15 feet
from a structure; and
               b.   The minimum required distance from a structure shall be 25
feet where the pile size is three or less in diameter and two feet or less in
height.
         (b)   The fire must be attended at all times until the fire is
extinguished and the ashes are cooled or covered.
         (c)   Wind speeds must be maintained from six mph to 20 mph and
atmospheric and humidity levels (above 50% humidity) must be met.
         (d)   On-site provisions must be met to keep the fire from spreading. 
A minimum 4-A rating fire extinguisher, or other approved fire extinguishing
equipment such as a water hose, earth moving equipment, dirt, sand or water
barrel shall be on site and available for immediate use.
         (e)   The burn may not include any asbestos, plastics or petroleum
products (tires, rubber, etc.) or miscellaneous hazardous materials as defined
by the TCEQ as now written or as hereafter amended.  Domestic waste (household
trash and rubbish) may not be burned.  Burning is limited to waste plant growth
which may be burned on the property on which the material grew.  WASTE PLANT
GROWTH may be grass, leaves, branch trimmings or other plant growth.
         (f)   Burning may only be conducted from dawn to dusk.
         (g)   Burn permits must remain available on site for the duration of
the burn.
   (D)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any individual who violates any condition of the above provisions
is in violation of this section and shall have their permit revoked immediately
and be subject to penalties under the law.
      (2)   Any person, fire or corporation found guilty of violating any of
the provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed  $200,
together with the costs of the prosecution.
      (3)   Each occurrence of a violation, or, in the case of continuous
violations, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
offense and may be punished separately.
      (4)   Permit holders assume full liability for the fire.  Violators shall
also be subject and liable for any damages resulting from failure to follow
requirement of the burn permit.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall become effective immediately upon
its passage, approval and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 2008-11, passed 6-30-2008)
§ 93.04  NOISE.
   (A)   Noise.
      (1)   Any unreasonably loud, disturbing, unnecessary noise in excess of
85 decibels at a distance of 50 feet from the property line which causes
material distress, discomfort or injury to persons of ordinary sensibilities in
the immediate vicinity thereof is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is
hereby prohibited.
      (2)   Any noise of such character, intensity and continued duration in
excess of 85 decibels at a distance of 50 feet from the property line which
substantially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of a dwelling, hotel or
other type of residence by persons of ordinary sensibilities is hereby declared
to be a nuisance and is hereby prohibited.
   (B)   Nuisances.  The following acts, among others, are declared to be
nuisances in violation of this section, but such enumeration shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
      (1)   Musical Instruments.  The playing of any radio, phonograph or other
musical instrument at a level in excess of 85 decibels at a distance of 50 feet
from the property line, particularly between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m., so as to annoy or disturb the quiet comfort or repose of persons of
ordinary sensibilities in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence.
      (2)   Loudspeakers and amplifiers.  The use of any stationary loudspeaker
or amplifier at a level in excess of 85 decibels at a distance of 50 feet from
the property line that annoys and disturbs persons of ordinary sensibilities in
the immediate vicinity thereof.  It is a defense to prosecution under this
division if the loudspeakers and amplifiers were operated during a parade on a
public street within the city or at a public event and advance permission for
the operation was obtained from the City Manager or the Chief of Police, or at
a public event sponsored by the City of Canton, Van Zandt County or Canton
Independent School District.
      (3)   Animals and birds.  The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
causing frequent or long-continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and repose
of any person of ordinary sensibilities in the immediate vicinity.
      (4)   Horns or other signal devices on vehicles.  The continued or
frequent sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle,
bus or other vehicle except as a danger or warning signal; the creation by
means of any such signal device of any unreasonably loud noise for any
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time.
      (5)   Operation of vehicles.  The running of any automobile, motorcycle
or vehicle so out of repair, so loaded or in such manner as to create loud,
extended or unnecessary grinding, jarring or rattling noise or vibrations. 
      (6)   Exhaust without mufflers.  The discharge into the open air of the
exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor
vehicle or boat engine except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      (7)   Construction work.  The erection, including excavation, demolition,
alteration or repair work on any building other than between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, except in case of urgent necessity
in the interest of public safety and convenience, and then only by permit from
the city, which permit may be renewed by the city during the time the emergency
exists.
      (8)   Near churches, schools and hospitals.  The creation of any
excessive noise adjacent to any church, school or institution of learning while
the same is in session or adjacent to any church, school or hospital which
unreasonably interferes with the workings of the institutions, provided
conspicuous signs are displayed on any street indicating the street has a
church, school or hospital.
      (9)   Loading and unloading vehicles, etc.  The creation of any loud and
excessive noise in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle or
in the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates and containers.
      (10)   Yelling, shouting, etc.  Loud and raucous yelling, shouting,
hooting, whistling, or singing, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m., or any time or place so as to unreasonably disturb the quiet,
comfort or repose of reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivities.
      (11)   Use of drums, etc. to attract attention.  The use of any drum,
loudspeaker or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting
attention by the creation of noise to any performance show or sale of
merchandise.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The following individuals shall enforce this section: The City of
Canton Police Department and its officers will have primary responsibility for
the enforcement of the noise regulations contained herein. Nothing in this
section shall prevent the City of Canton Police Department and its officers
from obtaining voluntary compliance by way of warning, notice or education.
      (2)   If a person's conduct would otherwise violate this section and
consists of speech or communication; of a gathering with others to hear or
observe speech or communication; or of a gathering with others to picket or
otherwise express in a non-violent manner a position on social, economic,
political or religious questions; the person must be ordered to, and have the
opportunity to, move, disperse, or otherwise remedy the violation prior to
arrest or a citation being issued.
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   A person who violates a provision of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor which is punishable by a fine not less than $100 and not to exceed
$500.
      (2)   Each occurrence of a violation, or, in the case of continuous
violations, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
offense and may be punished separately.
   (E)   Effective date.  This section shall become effective immediately upon
its passage, approval and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 2008-29, passed 11-18-2008)
JUNKED VEHICLES
§ 93.15  GENERAL DECLARATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having custody of any
junked vehicle or vehicle accessory to store or permit to be stored any such
vehicle or accessory to remain on any private property within the city limits
of the City of Canton, Texas and any place where they are visible from a public
place or public right-of-way.
   (B)   It shall be further unlawful for any person owning any private
property in the city to store or to permit to remain any such junked vehicles
or vehicle accessories on his or her property.
   (C)   (1)   The storage is declared to be a public nuisance and may be
abated or removed and penalties imposed as provided in this subchapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after notification to remove
any junked vehicle or vehicle accessories from any private property has been
given, to move the same to any other private property upon which the storage is
not permitted or onto any public highway or other public property for purposes
of storage.
(Ord. 99-09, passed 7-20-1999)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKED VEHICLE.  A vehicle that is self-propelled and:
      (1)   Does not have lawfully attached to it an unexpired license plate;
and
      (2)   Is:
         (a)   Wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled or discarded; or
         (b)   Inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than:
            1.   Seventy-two consecutive hours, if the vehicle is on public
property;
            2.   Thirty consecutive days, if the vehicle is on private
property.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   Any motor driven or propelled vehicle, including but not limited to
automobiles, trucks, buses, motor homes, motorized campers, tractors and
construction equipment and machinery;
      (2)   Any trailer or semitrailer, other than manufactured housing,
including but not limited to boat trailers, travel trailers;
      (3)   Any four-wheel all-terrain vehicle designed by the manufacturer for
off-highway use;
      (4)   Any motorcycle, motor-driven cycle or moped;
      (5)   Any recreational conveyances including but not limited to boats,
dune buggies; or
      (6)   Any motor vehicle subject to registration pursuant to the Texas
Certificate of Title Act, Tex. Trans. Code, §§ 501.001 et seq..
   VEHICLE ACCESSORIES.  Any part or parts of any vehicle.
(Ord. 99-09, passed 7-20-1999; Ord. 2015-05, passed 4-21-2015)
§ 93.17  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Junked vehicles and vehicle accessories which are located in any place
where they are visible from a public place or public right-of-way, are
detrimental to the safety and welfare of the general public tending to reduce
the value of private property, to invite vandalism, to create fire hazards, to
constitute an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of
minors, and are detrimental to the economic welfare of the state and the City
of Canton, Texas, by producing urban blight which is adverse to the maintenance
and continuing development of the municipalities of the State of Texas,
including the City of Canton, and such vehicles are therefore, declared to be a
public nuisance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having custody of any
junked vehicle or vehicle accessories to store or permit any such junked
vehicle or vehicle accessories to remain on any private property within the
City of Canton, Texas, for a period of more than ten days after the receipt of
a notice requiring such removal, and it shall further be unlawful for any
person owning any private property in the City of Canton, Texas, to store or to
permit to remain any such junked vehicle or vehicle accessories on his or her
property for more than a like period. The storage is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be abated or removed and penalties imposed as provided in this
subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after notification to remove any
junked vehicle or vehicle accessories from any private property has been given,
to move the same to any other private property upon which the storage is not
permitted or onto any public highway or public property for purposes of
storage.
(Ord. 99-09, passed 7-20-1999)
§ 93.18  EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any vehicle or vehicle accessories stored
within an enclosed building or on the premises of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful place and manner when necessary to the operation of the
business enterprise, in a storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner. The business enterprises shall include auto junk yards, auto
repair and auto body shops but shall not include automobile service stations or
tire, battery and accessory sales stores.
(Ord. 99-09, passed 7-20-1999)
§ 93.19  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Building Inspector and/or Chief of Police on routine inspection or
upon receipt of a complaint may investigate a suspected junked vehicle or
vehicle accessories and record the make, model, style and identification
numbers and its situation.
   (B)   Whenever the building inspector or any member of his or her department
finds or is notified that any junked vehicle or vehicle accessories have been
stored or permitted to remain on any private property in the city, the Building
Inspector shall send by certified mail or registered mail a notice to the owner
of record of the junked vehicle or vehicle accessories, if the owner can be
ascertained by the exercise of reasonable diligence, and also to the owner of
the private property, as listed on the tax assessment records of the city, on
which the same is located to remove the junked vehicle or vehicle accessories
within ten days. The notice shall contain the following additional information:
      (1)   Nature of complaint;
      (2)   Description and location of the junked vehicle and/or vehicle
accessories;
      (3)   Statement that the junked vehicle or vehicle accessories will be
removed from the premises not later than ten days from the date of notification
and/or that a request for a hearing must be made before the expiration of the
ten-day period;
      (4)   Statement that removal from the location specified in the
notification to another location upon which the storage is not permitted is
prohibited and shall subject the person to additional penalties;
      (5)   Statement that if removal is made within the time limits specified,
notification shall be given in writing to the Building Inspector.
      (6)   Statement of the penalties provided for non-compliance with the
notice.
   (C)   In the event of the failure, refusal or neglect of the owner or
occupant of the premises or property involved to cause the nuisance to be
removed or abated in the manner and within the time provided herein, it shall
be the duty of the Building Inspector and/or Chief of Police to cause the
condition constituting a nuisance to be promptly and similarly abated, in a
reasonable and prudent manner, at the expense of the city. The Building
Inspector or his or her duly authorized representative shall compile cost of
the work done and improvements made in abating the nuisance, and shall charge
the same against the owner of the premise or property. It is hereby provided
that general overhead of administrative expense, inspections, locating owner
and/or owners, issuing a notice, reinspection and ordering work done, together
with all necessary incidents of same, shall require a charge of at least $25
for each occurrence or incident. Not withstanding, therefore, any tabulation of
recorded cost, a minimum of $25 dollars shall be assessed against each lot
owner or vehicle owner, but the sum of $25 is hereby expressly stated to be a
minimum charge only and shall have no application when the tabulated cost of
the work done shall exceed the minimum charge. After the junked vehicle and/or
vehicle accessories has been removed, it shall not be reconstructed or made
operable.
   (D)   (1)   Upon removal of the junked vehicle, notice shall be given to the
Texas Highway Department within five days after the date of the removal
identifying the vehicle or part thereof.
      (2)   The Building Inspector may cause the removal of the junked vehicle
or vehicle accessories thereof from property by any duly authorized towing
service and/or by notifying the Canton Police Department and having it
authorize removal.
(Ord. 99-09, passed 7-20-1999)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   In addition to the above remedies, any person, firm or corporation
violating any provision of §§
93.15 through
93.19 shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200 for each offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 99-09, passed 7-20-1999)
CHAPTER 94:  ANIMALS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Enforcement
   
94.03   Running at large
   
94.04   Care and treatment of animals offered for sale or trade
   
94.05   Keeping of dangerous/vicious animals
   
94.06   Tethering
   
94.07   Impoundment and divestiture of ownership
   
94.08   Miscellaneous offenses
   
94.09   Animals prohibited
   
94.10   Rabies control
   
94.11   Reporting bites from animals susceptible to rabies; related procedures
   
94.12   Impoundment fees
   
94.13   Immunity from damages
   
94.14   Adoptions
   
94.15   Effective date
   94.16   Savings clause
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   When used in this chapter the following words and terms unless the context
indicates a different meaning, shall be interpreted as follows:
   ABANDONMENT.  Abandoning an animal in the person's custody without making
reasonable arrangements for assumption of custody by another person.
   ANIMAL.  Any warm-blooded vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, excluding
the human species.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.  Any person designated by the Supervisor of Animal
Control, the City Council, or the Chief of Police, to enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   CAT.  A domestic feline of either sex, including one neutered or sterilized.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any animal which because of its physical nature and vicious
propensity is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or death to human
beings and would constitute a danger to human life or property; or
      (2)   Any animal which has behaved in such manner that the owner thereof
knows or should reasonably know that the animal is possessed of tendencies to
attack or bite human beings or other animals; or
      (3)   Any animal certified by a doctor of veterinary medicine, after
observation thereof, as posing a danger to human life, animal life, or property
upon the basis of a reasonable medical probability; or
      (4)   Any animal that commits an unprovoked attack on a person or animal
on public or private property. An "unprovoked" attack by an animal shall mean
that the animal was not hit, kicked, or struck with an object or part of a
person's body nor was any part of the animal's body pulled, pinched, or
squeezed by a person; or
      (5)   Any individual domestic animal of any species that has on a
previous occasion or occasions, without provocation, attacked any person or
other domestic animal.
   DOG.  A domestic canine of either sex, including one neutered or sterilized.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  Dog, cat. Does not include hybrid animals resulting from
crossing wild with domestic species.
   HARBORING.  The act of keeping and caring for an animal or of providing a
premise to which the animal returns regularly.
   LIVESTOCK.  Any domestic animal, except a house pet, including, but not
limited to, cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine, goats, chickens, ducks, turkeys
or geese.
   LOCAL HEALTH AUTHORITY.  The reporting agent or his designee for the
purposes of rabies control, whose duties consist of the following:
      (1)   Receiving reports of animal bites and scratches to humans;
      (2)   Receiving reports of suspected rabid animals;
      (3)   Investigation of reported animals bites and scratches and suspected
rabid animals;
      (4)   Ordering quarantine, if appropriate, of any animal which may have
exposed an individual to rabies or which may be rabid;
      (5)   Enforcement of all ordinances and/or rules of the city pertaining
to rabies and animal control; and
      (6)   Enforcement of the provisions of state law and administrative rules
of the Texas Board of Health pertaining to rabies and animal control.
   OWNER.  Any person, firm, or corporation having title to any animal; or who
has, harbors, or keeps, or who causes or permits to be harbored or kept, an
animal in his or her care, or who permits an animal to remain on or about his
or her premises.
   RABIES VACCINATION.  The vaccination of a dog, cat or other domestic animal
with an anti-rabies vaccine approved by the Texas Department of Health and
administered by a veterinarian licensed by the State of Texas.
   RUN AT LARGE.  Not completely confined by a building, wall, or fence of
sufficient strength or construction to restrain the animal except when such
animal is either on a leash or held in the hands of the owner or keeper, or
under supervision of the owner within the limits of the owner's private
property. An animal not under restraint and intruding upon the property of a
person other than its owner shall be termed RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal within
an automobile or other vehicle of its owner shall not be deemed RUNNING AT
LARGE.
   SERVICE ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any guide dog, signal dog or other animal individually trained to
do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a disability,
including but not limited to, guiding individuals with impaired vision,
alerting individuals with impaired hearing to intruders or sounds, and
assisting non-ambulatory persons by pulling a wheelchair or fetching dropped
items; and
      (2)   Any trained animal used by a governmental agency in police and
rescue work.
   STRAY ANIMAL.  Any animal for which there is not an identifiable owner or
harborer or any animal which does not exhibit evidence of vaccination and/or
license.
   SUPERVISOR OF ANIMAL CONTROL.  The person appointed by the Chief of Police
with approval of the City Manager to supervise all aspects of animal control.
   WILD ANIMAL.  Any poisonous or dangerous reptile, or any other animal which
can normally be found in the wild state and not normally capable of being
domesticated, including, but not limited to, skunks, foxes, leopards, panthers,
tigers, lions, and lynx, unless certified for medical, biological,
herpetological or other scientific research or study.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 94.02  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the
Supervisor of Animal Control, of any animal control officer, and the Local
Health Authority.
   (B)   The Local Health Authority, any animal control officer, the Chief of
Police or any officer employed by him, and the City Building Inspector shall
have the authority to issue citations for any violation of this chapter. If the
person being cited is not present, the animal control officer may send the
citation to the alleged offender by registered or certified mail.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, hinder or
obstruct an animal control officer, peace officer or other official engaged in
the enforcement of this chapter, including but not limited to the failure to
release an animal for impoundment or any manner of interference with such
impoundment.
   (D)   Enforcement officers are authorized to pursue animals running at large
onto private property while enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Any dangerous animal or animal with dangerous propensities running at
large may be destroyed by the animal control officer or any police officer in
the interest of public safety.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty,
see §
94.99
§ 94.03  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, harbors or keeps any
animal within the corporate limits of the City of Canton, Texas, to permit that
animal to run at large, as defined in this chapter. A stray dog, cat or other
animal running at large is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   The Supervisor of Animal Control or any person acting under his
supervision is authorized to impound such animals running at large, and to
enter upon privately-owned property for that purpose.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty,
see §
94.99
§ 94.04  CARE AND TREATMENT OF ANIMALS OFFERED FOR SALE OR TRADE.
   (A)   All persons offering animals for sale and/or trade within the
corporate city limits of Canton, Texas, shall comply with the following
provisions for the care and treatment of such animals:
      (1)   Feed and water.
         (a)   Water and food shall be free of contamination, and receptacles
shall be clean and sanitary.
         (b)   Water shall be available at all times, and containers shall be
filled as needed.
         (c)   Adequate supplies of food shall be provided to all animals.
      (2)   Shelter, sanitation and health.
         (a)   SHELTER, as the term is used in this division, shall include any
type of cage, coop, enclosure, confinement, pen, and/or containment area used
to confine, contain, display, enclose or control any animal offered for sale or
trade.
         (b)   CAGE, as the term is used in this division, is defined as a
structure of wire, bars: confining animals; any open work frame or structure.
         (c)   PEN, as the term is used in this division, is defined as a small
enclosure for domestic animals; any small enclosure.
         (d)   All shelters shall be maintained in a sanitary condition.
         (e)   All shelters must provide sufficient space for each animal to
stand, turn around, sit and lie in a comfortable and normal position.
         (f)   All shelters must be constructed in such a manner so as to
protect the animals' feet and legs from injury.
         (g)   All shelters must be constructed in such a manner as to protect
the animals from any form of overheating, cold or inclement weather, must
provide adequate ventilation, and must enable the animals to remain dry and
clean. Cages, pens, crates, coops or other similar containments must be
elevated from the ground. All non-hooved animals shall be elevated at least two
inches above the ground.
         (h)   All shelters must provide convenient access to food and water
receptacles.
         (i)   Excreta shall be promptly removed from all shelters as often as
necessary to prevent contamination of the inhabitants and to reduce disease,
hazards and odors.
         (j)   No animal shall be offered for sale which is known or suspected
to be sick or unhealthy. All sick or injured animals shall be promptly removed
from the grounds by the owner or any person left in charge of the animal. If
the owner, or person in charge of the animal, fails to remove the animal, an
animal control officer may impound the animal in accordance with the provisions
of §
94.07.
         (k)   All animals younger than six weeks old must be accompanied by
their mothers.
         (l)   Any animal which appears to overpower or cause injury to another
animal in a commonly confined shelter shall be removed by the owner or any
person left in charge of the animal, Any injured animal shall be removed from
the common confinement by the owner or person left in charge of the animal, and
such person or owner shall seek veterinarian treatment for the animal, if
necessary. If the owner, or person in charge of the animal, fails to remove the
animal, an animal control officer may impound the animal in accordance with the
provisions of §
94.06.
         (m)   No animals shall receive any behavior-altering drugs either
before or during the period of time offered for sale or trade.
         (n)   The owner, or person left in charge of the animal, must comply
with the applicable provisions regarding rabies control in §
94.10. The owner, or any person left in charge of the animal must possess a
valid vaccination certificate which has not expired and which is signed by a
veterinarian licensed by the State of Texas.
         (o)   Any person offering animals for sale or trade must comply with §
94.11 relating to reporting bites from animals susceptible to rabies and
related procedures.
         (p)   Any person offering animals for sale or trade must present a
vaccination record at the time of exchange.
         (q)   Selling or trading animals are prohibited on city or state
right-of-ways.
   (B)   Transporting animals. The following provisions shall be applicable to
all persons upon both arrival and departure into the corporate city limits of
Canton, Texas:
      (1)   Animals shall be transported in crates, containers, coops, cages,
boxes with adequate ventilation or other similar containments.
      (2)   Transporting animals in open vehicles is prohibited.
      (3)   No person shall transport or retain animals in bags, sacks, or any
other inhumane manner.
      (4)   Any type of containment used for transporting animals shall enable
the animal to travel standing or sitting in a natural position without undue
restraints. Each containment must have sufficient space to enable the animals
to move around. If travel time is one hour or longer, enough space shall be
provided for the animals to lie down.
      (5)   The flooring of any such transportation containments must be
constructed in such a manner that the legs and feet of the animals will not be
entangled or injured.
      (6)   Animals shall not be transported with legs or mouths tied or bound.
   (C)   Miscellaneous provisions.
      (1)   Brutal, inhumane treatment of any animal is prohibited. This
includes, but is not limited to, hitting, slapping, kicking, dragging (with
ropes, wires or hands), tying too close together, or to trees, or to vehicles
to prevent lying down or reaching water, or tying with tight collars or ropes
or wires or tying an animal's feet together.
      (2)   During the period of time animals are offered for sale or trade,
performing animal mutilations, such as cropping ears and docking tails, is
prohibited.
      (3)   Abandonment of an animal is strictly prohibited.
      (4)   Treatment of live birds. In addition to all other applicable
provisions of this section, all persons offering live birds for sale or trade
must comply with the following:
         (a)   The person shall immediately place the birds in coops, crates,
or cages that are made of open slats or wire on at least three sides and that
are of a height so that the birds can stand upright without touching the top.
         (b)   The person shall keep clean water and suitable food in troughs
or other receptacles in the coops, crates, or cages. The troughs or other
receptacles must be easily accessible to the confined birds and must be placed
so that the birds cannot defile their contents.
         (c)   The person shall keep the coops, crates, or cages in a clean and
wholesome condition and may place in each coop, crate, or cage only the number
of birds that have room to move around and to stand without crowding one
another.
         (d)   The person may not expose the birds to undue heat or cold and
shall immediately remove all injured, diseased, or dead birds from the coops,
crates, or cages.
         (e)   Small birds, such as canaries and finches, must be provided with
enough perches that they are not forced to hang onto the sides and roofs of
their cages.
      (5)   Encouraging or instigating fighting between two or more animals is
strictly prohibited.
      (6)   Dangerous animals, as defined in §
94.01, are prohibited.
      (7)   Stray animals and animals running at large, as defined in §
94.01, shall be impounded by a local animal control officer in accordance with
the applicable provisions of §
94.07.
      (8)   The person who is in control of, or in charge of an animal,
regardless of whether or not he is the owner, shall be responsible for
compliance with this section. Furthermore, if conditions exist which violate
this chapter, and the owner of the animal is absent, then the person in control
of, or in charge of, the animal shall receive the citation for noncompliance.
      (9)   Animals which have in any way been subjected to artificial color or
dye are prohibited.
      (10)   It is within the power and complete discretion of the animal
control officer to make a judgment as to whether an act or situation involving
an animal is cruel and inhumane, and to take appropriate action in accordance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty,
see §
94.99
§ 94.05  KEEPING OF DANGEROUS/VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own or harbor a vicious animal within the city; such
an animal shall be impounded as a public nuisance.
   (B)   If impoundment of said vicious animal is being attempted away from the
premises of the owner and the impoundment cannot be made with safety, the
animal may be destroyed without notice to the owner or harborer. If an attempt
is made to impound a vicious animal from the premises of the owner or harborer
and the impoundment cannot be made with safety, the owner or harborer will be
given 24 hours' notice that if said animal is not surrendered to the Animal
Control Center for impoundment, within said 24 hour period, then the animal
will be destroyed wherever it is found. After this notice, the vicious animal
may be destroyed during an attempt to impound, if impoundment cannot be made
with safety, wherever the impoundment is attempted. Notice under this section
may be verbal or in writing. A written notice left at the entrance to the
premises where the vicious animal is harbored will be considered valid notice
under this section.
   (C)   VICIOUS ANIMAL is defined as:
      (1)   Any animal that when provoked, inflicts severe injury or death to a
person, or bites or attacks a person on public or private property: or
      (2)   Any animal that has killed or severely injured a domestic animal
without provocation while off the owner's property.
   (D)   Declaration of a vicious animal.
      (1)   An animal is automatically declared to be a vicious animal under
the above definitions.
      (2)   An animal control officer may declare an animal to be vicious with
evidence under above divisions.
   (E)   Other definitions.MAY BE VICIOUS or POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL mean:
      (1)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, chases or approaches a person
upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property in an apparent
attitude of attack such that the person reasonably believes that the animal
will cause physical injury to the person: or
      (2)   Any individual animal with a known propensity, tendency, or
disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury, or to otherwise threaten the
safety of persons or domestic animals.
   (F)   Declaration of a potentially dangerous animal can be defined under the
above definitions and an animal control officer may declare animal to be
potentially dangerous with evidence.
   (G)   The animal control officer may order the owner of any dangerous animal
to immediately and permanently remove the animal from the city limits. If so
ordered, the animal shall be removed immediately following receipt of the
order, even if the order is appealed.
   (H)   If the animal control officer finds that an animal is a dangerous
animal, but further finds that, under the circumstances of the case, it is
appropriate to allow the animal to remain in the city conditioned on the animal
owner's compliance with division (K) below, which will ensure the safety, pace
and repose of residents, the animal control officer may so order.
   (I)   The owner may appeal in writing an order issued under this section to
the Municipal Court of the city within ten days of the date of the order. The
Municipal Court may affirm or reverse the order of the animal control officer;
or, in cases in which the animal control officer has ordered the animal removed
from the city, the Municipal Court may, if the Municipal Court finds it
appropriate under the circumstances, modify the order to allow the animal to
remain in the city conditioned on the animal owner's compliance with division
(K) below, which will ensure the safety, peace and repose of residents. If the
Municipal Court affirms the order of the animal control officer to remove the
animal, the owner is prohibited from bringing the animal back or allowing it to
be brought back inside the city limits.
   (J)   If the Municipal Court upholds the determination of vicious animal,
the Court shall order the animal to be euthanized.
   (K)   If the Municipal Court finds the animal not vicious but potentially
dangerous, the animal shall be returned to the owner provided all requirements
are met and costs are reimbursed to the city for boarding and medical attention
while in custody. The following requirements must also be met within 15 working
days:
      (1)   The animal must be licensed;
      (2)   The animal must be kept in a proper enclosure;
      (3)   The owner must present a certificate of liability insurance in the
amount of $100,000;
      (4)   The owner must provide the animal with a fluorescent yellow collar
to be worn at all times and be visible 50 feet in normal daylight for
identification purposes;
      (5)   When the potentially dangerous animal is taken outside the
enclosure, it must be securely muzzled in a manner that will not cause injury
to the animal nor interfere with its vision or respiration, but shall prevent
it from biting any person or other animal; and the animal must be restrained by
a substantial chain or cable leash having a minimum tensile strength of 1,000
pounds and not to exceed six feet in length;
      (6)   The owner shall post a sign on his/her premises warning that there
is a potentially dangerous animal on the property. The sign shall be visible
and capable of being read from the public street or highway;
      (7)   The animal must be spayed or neutered; and
      (8)   The owner must register the animal and pay an annual fee of $50
each January to the animal control officer or Police Department.
   (L)   If the owner of the potentially dangerous animal does not comply with
the above requirements the animal shall be euthanized.
   (M)   The owner of an animal declared to be vicious under these laws shall
be subject to a fine of not less than $200 but not more than $2,000.
   (N)   The owner of an animal declared to be potentially dangerous is subject
to fines of not less than $200 but not more than $2,000 if violations are
committed or if animal has killed or wounded another animal or person.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 94.06  TETHERING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to restrain a dog with a chain or tether
unless the person is holding the chain or tether.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to a violation of the above division that
the restraint:
      (1)   Is required to protect the safety or welfare of a person or the
dog, if the dog's owner remains with the dog throughout the period of
restraint; or
      (2)   While the dog is within the owner's direct physical control; and
while the dog is prevented from being within 15 feet from the edge of any
public street or sidewalk.
   (C)   The prohibition of division (A) above does not apply to a temporary
restraint during a lawful animal event, veterinary treatment, grooming,
training, or law enforcement activity.
   (D)   An offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor. If a person
fails to comply with this section with respect to more than one dog, the
person's conduct with respect to each dog constitutes a separate offense. The
penalty for violation of this section shall be between $1 and $2,000 for each
offense, for each violation, for each separate day, and for each dog.
   (E)   Hand-held leashes shall not prohibit a person from walking a dog with
a hand-held leash.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 94.07  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The following animals may be impounded:
      (1)   Cats and dogs not exhibiting evidence of current vaccination;
      (2)   Any animal infected or kept under conditions which could endanger
the public or animal health;
      (3)   Any animal that creates a nuisance;
      (4)   Any animal running at large;
      (5)   Any animal treated in a manner determined by the Supervisor of
Animal Control to be cruel or inhumane;
      (6)   Any animal that has bitten a human being or other animal, or which
needs to be placed under observation for rabies determination, as determined by
an animal control officer or otherwise as specified in this chapter; or
      (7)   Any animal violating any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   If any of the animals named in this chapter are found upon the
premises of any person, the owner or occupant of the premises shall have the
right to confine such animal in a humane manner until he or she can notify an
animal control officer to come and impound such animal. When so notified, it
shall be the duty of an animal control officer or someone acting under his or
her authority to have such animal impounded as herein provided.
   (C)   Reasonable effort shall be made by an animal control officer to
contact the owner of any animal impounded; however, final responsibility for
location of an impounded animal is that of the owner.
   (D)   The owner can resume possession of any impounded animal upon payment
of impoundment fees, handling fees, and any veterinarian bills incurred by the
Animal Control for the welfare of the animal, and upon compliance with
vaccination provisions and license requirements of this code, except where
prohibited by other provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Disposition of animals impounded on the grounds of cruel or inhumane
treatment shall be determined by the court of proper jurisdiction.
   (F)   If any animal is being held under quarantine or observation for
rabies, the owner shall not be entitled to possession until it has been
released from quarantine.
   (G)   The impoundment of dogs and cats that have inflicted human bites shall
be for a period of ten days for observation and shall not be terminated until
consent from the Local Health Authority is secured or as in accordance with §
94.11;
   (H)   The place for impoundment of all animals impounded under any provision
of this chapter shall be as determined by the City Council of the City of
Canton, Texas, or the Animal Control Supervisor.
   (I)   Any nursing animal impounded without the mother, or where the mother
cannot or refuses to provide nutritious milk, may be immediately euthanized to
prevent further suffering. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
ownership of any animal that meets the definition in this section shall be
deemed to be transferred to the City of Canton, Texas upon completion of the
impoundment paperwork by the Supervisor of Animal Control or his/her designee.
   (J)   Any impounded dangerous or wild animal, unless there is reason to
believe that it has an owner, may be immediately disposed of as may be deemed
appropriate by the Supervisor of Animal Control. Notwithstanding anything
herein to the contrary, ownership of any animal that meets the definition in
this section shall be deemed to be transferred to the City of Canton, Texas
upon completion of the impoundment paperwork by the Supervisor of Animal
Control or his/her designee.
   (K)   Any impounded cat or dog not under quarantine may be given up for
adoption after 72 hours. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary,
ownership of any animal that meets the definition in this section shall be
deemed to be transferred to the City of Canton, Texas by operation of law upon
72 hours after the animal is impounded.
   (L)   An owner who no longer wishes responsibility for an animal, or who
believes the animal to be in an ill or injured condition, may sign a written
waiver supplied by Animal Control allowing the animal to be immediately
euthanized in a humane manner, provided that no warm-blooded animal that has
bitten a human being shall be euthanized before authorization is obtained from
the Local Health Officer. Signature of such waiver shall transfer ownership of
the animal to the City of Canton, Texas immediately upon signature of the
waiver and acceptance by the Supervisor of Animal Control or his/her designee.
   (M)   Animals injured on public property may be impounded and given adequate
veterinary medical treatment pending notification of the owner. If the injured
animal is treated and/or impounded, the owner of such animal shall be liable
for all expenses of the treatment and/or impoundment.
   (N)   As soon as practicable after impoundment of a tagged animal, if the
owner of the impounded dog or cat is known, notice by personal service or
certified mail shall be given to him or her. Any impounded dog or cat which is
tagged in accordance with §
94.10 may be redeemed by the owner upon payment of the impoundment fee, care
and feeding charges and such other costs as set by the City Council. If such
animal is not redeemed within 72 hours, and after reasonable effort has been
made to locate its owner, it shall be considered abandoned, ownership of the
animal shall be deemed to have been transferred to the City of Canton, Texas
and the animal may be placed for adoption subject to payment of the impoundment
fee, care and feeding charges, veterinary charges, and such other costs as set
by the City Council; or the animal may be humanely euthanized in accordance
with state requirements and those of the City Animal Shelter.
   (O)   As soon as practicable after impoundment of an unlicensed animal, if
the owner of the impounded animal is known, notice by personal service or
certified mail shall be given to him or her. Any impounded animal, except a
vicious or wild animal, may be redeemed upon payment of all fees including care
and feeding charges, veterinary charges, rabies vaccination charges and such
other costs as set by the City Council. If such animal is not redeemed within
72 hours, it shall be deemed abandoned, ownership of the animal shall be deemed
to have been transferred to the City of Canton, Texas and the animal may be
placed for adoption subject to payment of the impoundment fee, care and feeding
charges, veterinary charges, rabies vaccination charges and such other costs
set by the City Council, or said animal may be humanely euthanized in
accordance with state requirements and those of the City Animal Shelter. If any
impounded animal appears to be either seriously ill or injured in such a manner
as to render treatment impractical, ownership of the animal shall be
transferred to the City of Canton, Texas immediately effective upon completion
of paperwork by the Animal Control staff, and the animal may be humanely
euthanized before the end of the 72 hour waiting period to end its suffering;
or, the animal may be given to a non-profit humane organization for the
purposes of treatment.
   (P)   If a complaint has been filed in Municipal Court in the City of Canton
against the owner of an impounded animal for violation of this chapter, the
animal shall not be released except on the order of the Court, which may also
direct the owner to pay any penalties for violation of this chapter in addition
to all impoundment fees. The Court may, upon making a finding that such animal
is vicious or that it represents a clear and present danger or nuisance to the
citizens or other animals in the community, order said animal to be euthanized
in a humane manner. Surrender of an animal by the owner thereof to the animal
control officer does not relieve or render the owner immune from the decision
of the Court, nor to the fees and fines which may result from a violation or
violations of this chapter.
   (Q)   Treatment of impounded animals.
      (1)   A person who impounds or causes the impoundment of an animal under
state law or municipal ordinance shall supply the animal with sufficient
wholesome food and water during its confinement.
      (2)   If an impounded animal continues to be without necessary food and
water for more than 12 successive hours, any person may enter the pound or
corral as often as necessary to supply the animal with necessary food and
water. That person may recover the reasonable cost of the food and water from
the owner of the animal. The animal is not exempt from levy and sale on
execution of a judgment issued to recover those costs.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 94.08  MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES.
   (A)   The following shall be considered a public nuisance and shall be
unlawful:
      (1)   The keeping of any animal, which because of frequent or recurring
barking or noise, shall disturb any person of ordinary sensibilities in the
vicinity;
      (2)   The keeping of any animal in such a manner as (a) to endanger the
public health; (b) to annoy neighbors by the accumulation of animal wastes
which cause foul and offensive odors; (c) to be considered a hazard to any
other animal or human being; or (d) to permit the animal's continued presence
on the premises of another;
      (3)   All animal pens, stables or enclosures in which any animal may be
kept or confined which, from use, have become offensive to a person of ordinary
sensibilities.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or cause to be committed
any act of cruelty, harassment, or torture to any animal, or to intentionally
cause such animal to be mutilated or inhumanely killed. Ownership of the
animal, or the commission of such acts of cruelty on private property, shall
not be justifiable defenses for violation of this section.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to poison any domestic animal or
to distribute poison or toxicant on public or private property in any manner
whatsoever with the intent of poisoning any domestic animal.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully abandon any animal;
or to withhold food or water from any animal such that its health is
endangered, or that it is caused to suffer unduly.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, instigate or encourage
any dog or other animal to fight with another of its own species or with
another of a different species. It shall be unlawful for any person to train or
keep any dog or other animal for the purpose of or to maintain a place where
any dog or other animal is permitted to fight for exhibition, wager, or sport.
   (F)   The owner or person in possession of animals shall keep yard, pens and
enclosures in which such animals are confined in such manner as not to give off
odors offensive to persons of ordinary sensibilities residing in the vicinity,
or to breed or attract flies, mosquitoes, or other noxious insects or to in any
manner endanger the public health or safety or create a public nuisance.
   (G)   Any un-spayed female dog or cat in the state of estrus (heat) shall be
confined during such period of time in a house, so constructed that no other
dog or cat may gain access to the confined animal. Owners who do not comply
shall be ordered to remove the animal in heat to a boarding kennel, veterinary
hospital or animal shelter. All expenses incurred as a result of the
confinement shall be paid by the owner. Failure to comply with the removal
order of the animal control officer shall be a violation of this chapter and
the dog or cat will then be impounded in accordance with this chapter.
   (H)   A person commits an offense if the person intentionally, knowingly or
recklessly: (1) tortures an animal or in a cruel manner kills or causes serious
bodily injury to an animal; or (2) fails unreasonably to provide necessary
food, water, care or shelter for an animal in the person's custody; or (3)
transports or confines an animal in a cruel manner (Texas Penal Code 42.092).
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 94.09  ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to import, offer for sale, keep,
maintain, or harbor in the City of Canton, any wild animal, including but not
limited to a monkey, or other nonhuman primate, skunk, raccoon, jaguar,
leopard, lynx, tiger, lion, ocelot, bobcat, cheetah, mountain lion, panther,
bear, wolf, coyote, fox or other carnivorous animal. Hybrid animals, resulting
from crossing wild with domestic species, are also prohibited. Any poisonous or
venomous biting or injecting species of amphibian, arachnid or reptile,
including snakes, shall also be prohibited. Snakes not indigenous to this state
are prohibited.
   (B)   It is hereby prohibited and it shall be unlawful for any person to
import, offer for sale or trade, keep, maintain, or harbor in the City of
Canton a native or foreign species or subspecies of mammal, bird, amphibian, or
reptile, or the dead body or parts thereof, which appears on the endangered
species list designated by the United States Department of the Interior or the
Texas Department of Parks and Wildlife.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   A bona fide publicly or privately owned zoological park;
      (2)   A bona fide research institution using animals for scientific
research;
      (3)   A circus duly authorized to do business in the City of Canton.
   (D)   (1)   The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats in the city
for a considerable period of time detracts from and, in many instances, is
detrimental to the healthful and comfortable life for which such areas were
created. The keeping of an unlimited number of dogs and cats is, therefore,
declared to be a public nuisance.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to any establishment
wherein dogs or cats are kept for breeding, sale, sporting purposes or
boarding.
         (a)   A person commits an offense if he harbors more than two dogs,
cats, or any combination of dogs and cats on the premises of a dwelling unit
that shares a common wall with another dwelling unit.
         (b)   A person commits an offense if he harbors more than four dogs,
cats, or any combination of dogs and cats on the premises of a dwelling unit
that shares no common wall with another dwelling unit.
   (E)   Chickens.
      (1)   One chicken (hen) is allowed per one-eighth of acre of land up to a
maximum of six. Roosters are prohibited.
      (2)   All chickens shall be kept in a pen, coop or enclosure located at
least 30 feet from any residential dwelling, other than that of the owner. Such
enclosure shall be a minimum of 25 feet from any property line.
      (3)   All pens, coops or enclosures shall be cleaned and disinfected with
sufficient frequency to prevent any unsanitary conditions, or failing to store
the waste from such animals in a fly-proof container and remove the waste from
the city on a weekly basis.
      (4)   All coops or pens must be a minimum of at least three square feet
of floor space per chicken.
      (5)   It is unlawful for a person to permit, suffer or allow any carrion
to be used for the feed for any chickens.
      (6)   It is unlawful for a person to permit, suffer or allow any chicken
owned, kept or possessed by him or under his control to wander in or upon or
invade the premises of any other person.
   (F)   Livestock.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep within the city any
cattle, cows, horses, sheep, swine, goats, ducks, turkeys, geese, or other
livestock on any tract less than two acres in size.
      (2)   For tracts over two acres but less than five acres in size, in
areas zoned Rural Agricultural (RA), one horse or cow may be kept per acre, for
domestic (non-commercial) purposes only. In addition, a city permit may be
sought to keep poultry or livestock on tracts of this size for Future Farmers
of America (FFA), 4-H, or similar school-approved projects for a maximum
duration of one academic school year. Notwithstanding anything else in this
division, no bulls, jacks, or stallions may be kept on the property.
      (3)   Animals that are permitted must be kept in a clean, sanitary and
healthy condition.
      (4)   Any stable, shed, pen or other type shelter for livestock shall be
at least 50 feet from any public building or residential dwelling, other than
the residence of the owner. Such structures shall be a minimum of 25 feet from
any property line.
      (5)   If 50% or more of the property owners within 500 feet of the lots
or enclosures where animals or fowl are kept and maintained complain by
petition to the City Council, the presence of the animals in the areas shall be
considered a nuisance and the owners of such animals or fowl shall remove them
from the city limits.
      (6)   When such livestock is kept on unplatted and undeveloped land
within the city limits which is zoned Rural Agricultural (RA) and such land
exceeds five acres in size, than no maximum number of livestock is established.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 94.10  RABIES CONTROL.
   The following provisions are in accordance with and intended in furtherance
of the Rabies Control Act of 1981, Article 4477- 6a, V.T.CA and the rules
enacted by the Texas Board of Health pursuant to Article 4477-6a, Section 2.01
(f), V.T.C.A., entitled "Rabies Control and Eradication, 169.21-169.33 which
provisions are hereby adopted.
   (A)   For the City of Canton, the Local Health Authority and/or Local Health
Officer shall be the Chief of Police or his designee.
   (B)   Every owner of a dog or cat four months of age or older shall have
such animal vaccinated against rabies. Annual re-vaccination shall be required
within each subsequent 12 month interval thereafter. Any person moving into the
City of Canton from a location outside of the city shall comply with this
section within ten days after having moved within the corporate city limits.
This ten day grace period shall not apply to persons offering animals for sale
or trade, and such persons must be in compliance with all applicable provisions
of this section.
   (C)   Upon vaccination, the veterinarian shall execute and furnish to the
owner of the dog or cat, as evidence thereof, a certificate upon a form
furnished by the veterinarian. The veterinarian shall retain his copy for a
minimum period of three years from date of issuance. Such certificate shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Owner's name, address, and telephone number;
      (2)   Animal identification: species, age, sex, size (in pounds),
predominant breed and colors;
      (3)   Vaccine used, producer, expiration date, and serial number;
      (4)   Date vaccinated;
      (5)   Rabies tag number; and
      (6)   Veterinarian's signature and license number.
   (D)   Concurrent with the issuance and delivery of the certificate of
vaccination referred to in division (C) above, the owner of any dog shall cause
to be attached to the collar or harness of the vaccinated dog a metal tag,
serially numbered to correspond with the vaccination certificate number and
bearing the year of issuance and the name of the issuing veterinarian and his
address.
   (E)   In the event of loss or destruction of the original tag provided in
this section, the owner of the dog shall obtain a duplicate tag.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or harbors a vaccinated
dog or cat to fail or to refuse to exhibit his or her copy of the certificate
of vaccination upon demand to any person charged with the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to harbor any dog or cat which has
not been vaccinated against rabies, as provided herein, or which cannot be
identified as having a current vaccination certificate.
   (H)   Any person having knowledge of the existence of any animal known to
have been, or suspected of being exposed to rabies must immediately report such
knowledge to the Local Health Authority giving him or her any information which
he or she may require. As to any animal known to have been, or suspected of
being exposed to rabies, the following rules must apply:
      (1)   Unvaccinated animals which have been bitten or directly exposed by
physical contact with a rabid animal or its fresh tissues should be:
         (a)   Humanely killed; or
         (b)   If sufficient justification for preserving the animal exists,
the exposed animal should be immediately vaccinated against rabies, confined
for 90 days, and revaccinated on the third and eighth week of confinement.
      (2)   Vaccinated animals which have been bitten or otherwise
significantly exposed to a rabid animal should be:
         (a)   Humanely killed; or
         (b)   If sufficient justification for preserving the animal exists,
the exposed vaccinated animal should be given a booster rabies vaccination and
placed in strict isolation for three months.
      (3)   These provisions apply only to domestic animals for which an
approved rabies vaccine is available.
   (I)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make use of a stolen,
counterfeit or forged rabies vaccination certificate, vaccination tag, or other
type license as may be required by this chapter.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any rabies tag for any dog
or cat other than the dog or cat for which such tag was originally issued.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 94.11  REPORTING BITES FROM ANIMALS SUSCEPTIBLE TO RABIES; RELATED
PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any person having knowledge that an animal has bitten a human shall
immediately report the incident to the Local Health Authority. Every physician
or other medical practitioner who treats a person or persons for such bites
shall, within 12 hours, report such treatment to the Local Health Authority, or
his agent, giving name, age, sex, and precise location of the bitten person or
persons and such other information as the Local Health Authority may require;
   (B)   Humans bitten by birds and reptiles are excluded from the reporting
requirements of this section.
   (C)   Any veterinarian who clinically diagnoses rabies or any person who
suspects rabies in a dog, cat or other domestic or wild animal shall
immediately report that incident to the Local Health Authority, or his or her
agent, stating precisely where such animal may be found. If a known or
suspected rabid animal bites or attacks a domestic animal, such incident shall
also be reported as required above.
   (D)   Any dog or cat which has bitten a person shall be observed for a
period of ten days from the date of the bite. The procedure and place of
observation shall be designated by the Local Health Authority. If the dog or
cat is not allowed an at-home quarantine, confinement shall be by impoundment
in the City Animal Shelter, or at any veterinary hospital of the owner's
choice. Such confinement shall be at the expense of the owner. Stray dogs or
cats whose owners cannot be located shall be confined in the City Animal
Shelter or another veterinary hospital. The owner of any dog or cat that has
been reported to have inflicted a bite on any person or animal, or to have been
exposed to rabies, shall on demand produce said dog or cat for impoundment, as
prescribed in this section. Refusal to produce said dog or cat constitutes a
violation of this section, and each day of such refusal shall constitute a
separate and individual violation. At no time shall a dog or cat be allowed an
at-home quarantine if it is in violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (E)   When an animal bites or scratches a person under conditions presenting
a substantial probability that the animal was infected with rabies, the Local
Health Officer may, upon his or her finding that the quarantine period should
not be observed because of the danger of developing rabies, order the immediate
destruction of the animal and cause its head to be forwarded to the State
Department of Health Resources for pathological testing.
   (F)   Violation of animal quarantine requirement. It shall be unlawful for
any person to fail or refuse to quarantine or present for quarantine any animal
which is required or ordered to be quarantined pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove from any place of
confinement any animal which has been confined as authorized, without the
consent of the Local Health Authority.
   (H)   In addition to citation for violation of the preceding division, the
Local Health Officer is hereby authorized to pursue, in conjunction with the
City Attorney, such civil remedies as he or she deems appropriate to achieve
compliance with the foregoing impoundment and quarantine requirements.
   (I)   Procedures concerning bites from other animals shall be discussed with
the Local Health Authority, animal control officer, or the Texas Department of
Health for proper disposition. Any wild animal which has bitten a person should
be caught and killed and the brain immediately submitted to a qualified
laboratory for rabies examination. An exception to this rule may be allowed for
large, exotic, or valuable zoo species, which, by reason of their close
confinement, would be unlikely rabies vectors. Birds and reptiles are not
considered to be transmitters of the rabies virus and should not be submitted
for laboratory examination for rabies.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 94.12  IMPOUNDMENT FEES.
   (A)   The following fee schedule is hereby adopted and approved by the City
Council of the City of Canton on September 3, 2019:
Impoundment Fee:
   Unrestrained dog or cat without vaccination tag or license attached
   First and second offenses $30
   Third and subsequent      $60
offenses
Impoundment Fee:
   Unrestrained dog or cat displaying evidence of vaccination or registration
   First and second offenses $25
   Third and subsequent      $50
offenses
Impoundment Fee: Livestock
   First and second offenses $35
   Third and subsequent      $70
offenses
Impoundment Fee:
   After business hours      $60
Daily Boarding Fee
   Dog, cat or chicken       $10
10-Day Quarantine/Boarding Fee
   Dog or cat                $100
Adoption Fee
   Dog or cat                $35 (includes microchip)
   Chicken                   $5
Euthanasia/Disposal Fee         $40
Surrenders (inside city limits)
   First adult animal        $20
   Each additional adult anim$10
   Puppies/kittens           $5 each
Surrenders (outside city limits)
   Adult                     $30 each
   Puppies/kittens           $10
 
   (B)   The City Manager of the City of Canton will establish a schedule of
fines for the violation of any provisions of any sections of this chapter for
review and approval by the City Council and said fine schedule will be subject
to proper implementation or enforcement of the provisions contained herein.
Fees are subject to change.
   (C)   (1)   Before issuing a citation for a violation of this chapter, any
officer authorized to issue such citation may give an oral warning, or issue a
written warning ticket. If the person or persons receiving the oral warning or
warning ticket do not discontinue the violation, a citation for ordinance
violation shall be issued to the violator. If it appears necessary to make an
arrest to preserve the public peace or safety, a police officer may make an
arrest for violation of this chapter, with or without a previous oral warning
or warning ticket.
      (2)   Any person found guilty of permitting a nuisance to exist as set
out in this chapter shall be fined:
         (a)   Not less than $5 nor more than $100 for the first offense;
         (b)   Not less than $15 nor more than $500 for the second offense
within a consecutive 12 month period;
         (c)   Not less than $50 nor more than $500 for the third offense
within a consecutive 12 month period;
         (d)   Not less than $150 nor more than $500 for the fourth offense
within a consecutive 12 month period; and/or
         (e)   Ordered to remove such animal permanently from the city within
24 hours of such order.
      (3)   Any person found guilty of keeping or maintaining a vicious dog as
defined herein may be:
         (a)   Fined not less than $15 nor more than $500; and/or
         (b)   Ordered to remove such animal permanently from the city within
24 hours of such order or within 24 hours after the rabies observation period
has expired, if applicable.
   (D)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
94.10 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.
   (E)   Abandonment of a domestic animal is a Class A misdemeanor (Penal Code
42.09 and 42.092). ANIMAL as defined under the Penal Code means a domesticated
living creature, including any stray or feral cat or dog, and a wild living
creature previously captured. The term does not include an uncaptured wild
living creature or a livestock animal.
   (F)   In addition to any other fines, fees or penalties provided in this
section, failure to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
cause for the animal control officer, or any person designated to enforce this
chapter, to have the noncomplying animals removed from sale area, and impounded
in accordance with the provisions of §
94.07.
   (G)   Any person found guilty of violating any other provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than $10 nor more than $500 for each offense. A
separate offense shall be held to have been committed each day that such
violation shall occur or continue as may be determined by the Municipal Judge
or appropriate authority.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the Local Health Authority of the City of
Canton to maintain such records as deemed necessary to the enforcement of all
provisions of this chapter and have those records available for display to the
City Council, or to the public at any time during regular business hours of the
Canton Police Department.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 94.13  IMMUNITY FROM DAMAGES.
   Any animal control officer, Supervisor of Animal Control, Local Health
Officer, police officer, or persons acting under their direction shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the registered
owner, or other person legally entitled to the possession of an animal when the
animal is impounded, euthanized or otherwise disposed of in accordance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 94.14  ADOPTIONS.
   (A)   An individual may adopt a dog or cat from the City Animal Shelter
under the following conditions:
      (1)   The animal has been classified as adoptable by the Supervisor of
Animal Control;
      (2)   The prospective adopter has proper facilities to care for the
animal;
      (3)   The prospective adopter obtains the necessary vaccinations;
      (4)   The prospective adopter pays the applicable fee of $35 for a dog or
a cat; and
      (5)   The prospective adopter agrees to have the animal neutered, if
male, or spayed, if female, and to have the animal vaccinated for rabies at the
time of adoption, at adopter's expense. In the event the dog or cat is, at the
time of adoption, in the opinion of the veterinarian, too young to be neutered
or spayed, the adopter shall deposit the fee therefor and agree to return the
animal to be neutered or spayed within 30 days after attaining an age fixed by
the veterinarian at the time of adoption. The Supervisor of Animal Control
shall have the right to immediate return of the animal to the animal shelter
upon failure of the adopter to present the animal to be neutered or spayed
within the 30 day period fixed by the veterinarian.
   (B)   The Supervisor of Animal Control may refuse to allow a person to adopt
a cat or dog when he has reason to believe the person seeking adoption:
      (1)   Would not have proper facilities to contain or care for the animal
as required by this chapter; or
      (2)   Wants the dog or cat for the purpose of resale or for purposes
other than pet ownership; or
      (3)   Would maintain the cat or dog so that it would be a hazard to
humans or other animals.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 94.15  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect from and after its publication one time in
the official publication of the City of Canton, Texas, which publication shall
contain the caption stating in summary the purpose of the ordinance and the
penalty for violation thereof.
(Ord. 2016-21, passed 10-18-2016; Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 94.16  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   If, for any reason, any section, paragraph, division, clause, phrase, word
or provision of this chapter shall be held invalid or unconstitutional by final
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, it shall not affect any other
section, paragraph, division, clause, phrase, word or provision of this
chapter, for it is the definite intent of this City Council that every section,
paragraph, division, clause, phrase, word or provision hereof be given full
force and effect for its purpose.
(Ord. 2019-18, passed 10-15-2019)
CHAPTER 95:  PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
Parks and Recreation Facilities
   
95.01   City parks and recreation facilities
PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES
§ 95.01  CITY PARKS AND RECREATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   General.  City parks are owned and operated by the city. The Council
retains overall control of the parks and park policies, but the Council may
delegate the implementation of parks policy to the City Manager. The Canton
parks are intended for the general public use.
   (B)   Hours for City of Canton parks and recreation facilities.  It shall be
unlawful for any person to enter into or upon any of the parks and recreation
facilities designated below between the following hours:
 
Times               Parks and Recreation Facilities
10:00 p.m. and dawn Cherry Creek Park on Cherry Creek Road
10:00 p.m. and dawn New City Lake on Arnold Paul road (except lake fishing)
10:00 p.m. and dawn First Monday Park on Groves Street (except as reserved for
                    First Monday and special events)
12:00 a.m. and dawn Old City Lake Park on Old Kaufman Road
 
   (C)   Penalties.  Any person who shall violate the provisions of this
section, or who shall fail to comply herewith, or with any of the requirements
hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable to a fine of not
more than $200 per offense upon conviction.
   (D)   Effective date.  This section shall take effect immediately from and
after its passage and the publication of the caption as the law in such cases
provides.
(Ord. 2007-17, passed 5-15-2007)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; PERMITS
      
111.   FIRST MONDAY TRADE DAYS
      
112.   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
113.   GARAGE SALES
      
114.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
115.   TAXICAB SERVICES
      
116.   ALCOHOLIC REGULATIONS
      
117.   RENTAL OF MOTORIZED PERSONAL TRANSPORTATION DEVICES
      
118.   AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINES AND GAME ROOMS
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS; PERMITS
Section
General Business Regulations
   
110.01   All businesses to have legal street address
   
110.02   No more than two vehicles for sale at one time
   
110.03   Viewing materials harmful to minors
Temporary Businesses
   
110.15   Definitions
   
110.16   Permit required
   
110.17   Application for permit
   
110.18   Investigation by the City Secretary’s office
   
110.19   Fees for permit
   
110.20   Permit nontransferable
   
110.21   Termination of permit
   
110.22   Entry on premises
   
110.23   Identification
   
110.24   Court action
   
110.25   Permit appeals
   
110.26   Miscellaneous provisions
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
§ 110.01  ALL BUSINESSES TO HAVE LEGAL STREET ADDRESS.
   (A)   All business houses and residences shall have a designated legal
street address and shall be identified as such by the legal house numbers
attached and visible.
   (B)   All mail recipients, excepting business houses, shall place a desired
mail receptacle on a metal and/or four by four-inch wooden post at a height of
four to four and one-half feet at curb side in front of residence where the
mail delivery vehicle can service it without leaving the surfaced roadway. Any
other curb side location may be used, provided the resident house number is
attached thereto and is placed as to legal address on resident’s property.
   (C)   All business houses shall have a specified location inside each
individual building for mail delivery services.
   (D)   There shall be designated parking areas within the business district
marked with appropriate signs for mail delivery vehicles.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any of the regulations of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not
less than $1 nor more than $200.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1965)
§ 110.02  NO MORE THAN TWO VEHICLES FOR SALE AT ONE TIME.
   (A)   This entire section is and shall be deemed an exercise of the police
powers of the State of Texas, and of the City of Canton, for the public safety,
comfort, convenience and protection of the city and citizens of the city, and
all the provisions hereof shall be construed for the accomplishment of that
purpose.
   (B)   That it shall hereafter be unlawful for any person owning or renting
property which is located in a residential zoned area to offer for sale more
than two vehicles at one time. The term VEHICLES shall be defined as any car,
truck, boat, motorcycle or trailer.
   (C)   The violation of any provision of this section shall be punishable by
a fine of not less than $1 but not more than $200, and each violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 87-3, passed 3-17-1987)
§ 110.03  VIEWING MATERIALS HARMFUL TO MINORS.
   (A)   Unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any person, individually or within
a business establishment located within the corporate limits to knowingly
openly display or to suffer or permit the open display of any book, pamphlet,
magazine, newspaper, poster, video or pictorial advertising material of any
kind which is harmful to minors in such a way that minors, as a part of the
invited general public, will be exposed to view such materials. It is unlawful
to sell or offer to sell, to rent or offer to rent, those materials to minors.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      HARMFUL TO MINORS.  Any description, exhibition, representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-
masochistic abuse when the material or performance, taken as a whole, has the
following characteristics:
         (a)   The average adult person applying contemporary community
standards would find that the material or performance has a predominant
tendency to appeal to a prurient interest in sex to minors;
         (b)   The average adult person applying contemporary community
standards would find that the material or performance depicts or describes
nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-masochistic abuse in a manner
that is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community with
respect to what is suitable for minors; and
         (c)   The material or performance lacks serious literary, scientific,
or artistic content.
   (C)   Requirements for display.
      (1)   As utilized herein, the term OPEN DISPLAY shall mean the exhibit of
merchandise for sale in such manner as to allow:
         (a)   The cover or contents to be readily viewed or observed by
minors; or
         (b)   The merchandise to be readily grasped or taken into the custody
of minors for observation, browsing or selection.
      (2)   It shall be a defense to prosecution hereunder that such “harmful
to minors” material was displayed:
         (a)   Behind an opaque cover or posterboard in such manner as to
conceal the cover and any depictions described in division (C)(1)(a) above such
as through the use of devices commonly known as blinder racks; and
         (b)   Behind a counter or other structure or in a separate room of the
facility, outside of the reach of minors.
   (D)   Persons responsible. The term PERSON as utilized in this section shall
include the owner, manager, cashier, clerk or other person having custody,
control or supervision of the business establishment.
   (E)   Penalty. Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $200 for each occurrence.
(Ord. 88-1, passed 6-21-1988)
TEMPORARY BUSINESSES
§ 110.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  Any marketing activity conducted for the sale of goods or
services for a profit.
   TEMPORARY BUSINESS.  The sale of goods or services conducted by any person,
group of persons or entity that does not have a permanent address in the city
and that is operated in the city for 120 consecutive hours or less or operating
out of a vehicle, truck, trailer or other mobile unit.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.16  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or entity shall operate a temporary business within the city or
its extra-territorial jurisdiction without first obtaining a permit from the
City Secretary. The permit shall be displayed on the premises where the
business is being conducted during all business hours.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.17  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any application for a permit to operate a temporary business under
this ordinance shall be made through the City Secretary’s office upon forms
provided by the city (unless provided by specific ordinance otherwise). The
application shall be sworn to or affirmed and filed with the City Secretary at
least 24 hours prior to the time in which the permit applied for shall become
effective.
   (B)   The application required herein shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person applying for the permit;
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of
the applicants’ registered agent and registered office, and of the applicants’
principal officers and managers;
      (3)   The name and address of the person or persons who will be in direct
charge of conducting the temporary business;
      (4)   The time within which the temporary business will be operated and
the location of the business in the city;
      (5)   The signature of the party on whose property the temporary business
shall be located;
      (6)   A statement of the types of merchandise, goods or services that
will be offered the public; and
      (7)   Such additional information as may be required hereafter by
ordinance or otherwise enacted by the City Council.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.18  INVESTIGATION BY THE CITY SECRETARY’S OFFICE.
   The City Secretary shall examine each application filed under this
subchapter for a permit and shall make, or cause to be made, such further
investigation of the application and the applicant as the City Secretary shall
deem necessary. The permit will be issued when the City Secretary determines
the following facts:
   (A)   That all of the statements made in the application are true;
   (B)   That the applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise;
   (C)   That nothing in the proposal will violate any provision of the Zoning
Ordinance for the City of Canton, Texas, or any other law or ordinance; and
   (D)   That all regulations and restrictions governing same enacted by the
City Council of the City of Canton, Texas now or hereafter have been complied
with.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.19  FEES FOR PERMIT.
   Before a permit is issued there shall be paid to the City Treasurer of the
City of Canton, Texas, the sum of $10 for a permit which allows the temporary
business to operate at one location for 120 hours or less within the city. A
$100 permit shall also be available on an annual basis, but that permit shall
be for only 120 consecutive hours at a time and shall be for only one location.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.20  PERMIT NONTRANSFERABLE.
   Any permit issued under this subchapter shall be nontransferable.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.21  TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   All annual permits shall terminate on December 31 of the same year the
permit is issued unless provided by ordinance otherwise.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.22  ENTRY ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person shall refuse entry to any city inspector attempting to enter
any premises for the purpose of inspection, if the entry is attempted during
business hours or during reasonable hours after business hours when there are
employees on the premises to let the inspector in.
   (B)   The entry shall be permitted not only to areas open to the public but
also to all other areas, provided that no employee shall be required to
accompany any inspector in any area that the employee deems to be dangerous, if
the employee tells the inspector that the area is in the employee’s opinion
dangerous.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.23  IDENTIFICATION.
   It is the policy of the city that immediately upon arriving at the premises
to be inspected, the city inspector ordinarily will identify himself or herself
to an employee on the premises, showing an identification card if the employee
is not acquainted with the inspector. If there is no employee at the scene, the
inspector may enter any area that is open to the public at that time without
identifying himself or herself.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.24  COURT ACTION.
   If a city inspector is not permitted to enter any place or any part of any
premises for inspection, the inspector shall not use force but shall leave the
premises and seek a search warrant or other appropriate order to make entry
possible.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.25  PERMIT APPEALS.
   The method of appealing a decision involving a temporary permits, such as
refusal to issue a permit or action suspending or revoking a permit, is as
follows.
   (A)   Scope. This section shall apply to all appeals from any action of any
city officer or employee, appeals from any committee or other body of the city
refusing to issue a permit. This section shall also apply to appeals from any
action by a city officer or employee, or by any committee or other body to the
city, revoking or suspending a permit.
   (B)   Appeal to department head. Any decision made by an employee of the
city with a lower rank than a department head may be taken to the head of the
department in which the employee is working. The appeal may be taken by filing
a written note, notice or letter with the department head, briefly describing
the decision being appealed. The person taking the appeal must file the note,
notice or letter within ten days of the date of being notified of the decision
from which the appeal is taken. The department head shall provide an
opportunity for a conference, and shall decide the appeal promptly.
   (C)   Appeal to City Council. Any decision made by a department head,
whether an original decision or a decision on appeal from an employee’s
decision, may be appealed to the City Council. Any decision made by a committee
or board of the city may be appealed to the City Council. The appeals shall be
taken within ten days of the date that the person taking the appeal was
notified of the decision from which the appeal is taken. Appeals shall be taken
by filing a note, notice or letter with the City Secretary, identifying the
decision from which the appeal is taken.
   (D)   Action by City Council. The City Council shall take all action on
permit appeals at open meetings. All requirements of state law on open meetings
shall be observed. The City Council’s decision shall be final, subject to the
right to contest the matter in an appropriate court action.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.26  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall repeal any other ordinance concerning
temporary businesses.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter are severable. If any provision of
this subchapter or the application thereof to any person, entity or set of
circumstances is held invalid, that invalidity shall not affect other
provisions or applications of this subchapter which can be given effect without
the invalid provision or application.
   (C)   A public emergency and necessity exists for the passage of this
subchapter, and therefore this subchapter is passed on the date of its
introduction and shall take effect and be in force immediately.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
110.15 through
110.21 or §§
110.25 through
100.26 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $200 for each offense,
and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
110.22 through
110.24 shall be fined not less than $20 nor more than $1,000 for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 89-3, passed 2-21-1989)
CHAPTER 111:  FIRST MONDAY TRADE DAYS
Section
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Adoption of policies and procedures
   
111.03   Ratification of adoption of policy and procedures for termination of
lot rentals
   
111.04   Amendments, revisions, and rescission
   
111.05   Gender and number
   
111.06   Severability
   
111.07   Effective date
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to as the First Monday Policies and
Procedures ordinance.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2009-22, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 2010-21,
passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-21-
2012; Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2014-11, passed 10-7-2014; 2016-15,
passed 6-21-2016; Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2017-19, passed 10-17-
2017; Ord. 2018-10, passed 4-17-2018; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 111.02  ADOPTION OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES.
   The City Council of the City of Canton has previously adopted, on an annual
basis, certain “Policies and Procedures” concerning the operation of the city’s
First Monday Trade Days. Portions of the said policies are incorporated into a
brochure for distribution to the public. The policies set out in the policy
manual attached to Ordinance 2018are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by
reference as if cited herein verbatim.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2009-22, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 2010-21,
passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-21-
2012; Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2014-11, passed 10-7-2014; 2016-15,
passed 6-21-2016; Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2017-19, passed 10-17-
2017; Ord. 2018-10, passed 4-17-2018; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 111.03  RATIFICATION OF ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES FOR TERMINATION OF
LOT RENTALS.
   On April 18, 2017, the City Council adopted the policy manual regulating all
aspects of First Monday. By this chapter, the following policy attached as
Exhibit “A” to Ordinance 2018-11 codified herein is hereby ratified and
confirmed and incorporated into this chapter.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2009-22, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 2010-21,
passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-21-
2012; Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2014-11, passed 10-7-2014; 2016-15,
passed 6-21-2016; Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2017-19, passed 10-17-
2017; Ord. 2018-10, passed 4-17-2018; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 111.04  AMENDMENTS, REVISIONS, AND RESCISSION.
   The City’s “First Monday Policies and  Procedures” and the “Policy and
Procedure for Termination of Lot Rentals” may be amended, revised, or rescinded
by the City Council of the City of Canton at any properly noticed meeting of
the Council at which a quorum is present.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2009-22, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 2010-21,
passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-21-
2012; Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2014-11, passed 10-7-2014; 2016-15,
passed 6-21-2016; Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2017-19, passed 10-17-
2017; Ord. 2018-10, passed 4-17-2018; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 111.05  GENDER AND NUMBER.
   In this chapter, unless the text otherwise requires, words in the singular
number include the plural and in the plural include the singular; words of the
masculine gender include the feminine and the neuter; and when the sense so
indicates, words in the neuter gender may refer to any gender.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2009-22, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 2010-21,
passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-21-
2012; Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2014-11, passed 10-7-2014; 2016-15,
passed 6-21-2016; Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2017-19, passed 10-17-
2017; Ord. 2018-10, passed 4-17-2018; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 111.06  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part of this
chapter, or application thereof to any person, firm, corporation, public agency
or circumstance, shall for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall not affect,
impair or invalidate the remainder of this chapter and the application of such
provisions to other persons, firms, corporations, public agencies, or
circumstances, but shall be continued in its operation to the provisions,
clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof directly involved in the
controversy in which such judgment shall have been rendered and to the person,
firm, corporation, public agency, or circumstances involved. It is hereby
declared to be the legislative intent of the City Council that this chapter
would have been adopted had such unconstitutional or invalid provision, clause,
sentence, paragraph, section, or part thereof not be included.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2009-22, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 2010-21,
passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-21-
2012; Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2014-11, passed 10-7-2014; 2016-15,
passed 6-21-2016; Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2017-19, passed 10-17-
2017; Ord. 2018-10, passed 4-17-2018; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-19-2018)
§ 111.07  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective and in full force and effect after its
passage.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2009-22, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 2010-21,
passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-21-
2012; Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2014-11, passed 10-7-2014; 2016-15,
passed 6-21-2016; Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2017-19, passed 10-17-
2017; Ord. 2018-10, passed 4-17-2018; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-19-20180)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to comply with the policies and procedures referred to herein
may result in removal and/or eviction of violator and/or violator’s employer,
invitor, or licensor from the premises and/or loss of or eviction from the lots
rented, subject only to the provisions of §
111.03 above.
   (B)   Any person found guilty for violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with, or resisting or opposing the
enforcement of any of the provisions of the “First Monday Policies and
Procedures”, may be cited and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $200 for each offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2008-20, passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 2009-22, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 2010-21,
passed 9-21-2010; Ord. 2011-10, passed 8-16-2011; Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-21-
2012; Ord. 2013-15, passed 8-20-2013; Ord. 2014-11, passed 10-7-2014; 2016-15,
passed 6-21-2016; Ord. 2017-08, passed 4-18-2017; Ord. 2017-19, passed 10-17-
2017; Ord. 2018-10, passed 4-17-2018; Ord. 2018-11, passed 6-19-2018)
CHAPTER 112:  FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions; relationship to state regulations
   
112.02   Effective date
Smoking in Eating Establishments
   
112.10   Purpose
   
112.11   Definitions
   
112.12   Violation
   
112.13   Enforcement
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS; RELATIONSHIP TO STATE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The definitions, the inspection of food service establishments, retail
food stores, mobile food units, roadside food vendors and temporary food
service establishments, the issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to
operate food service establishments, retail food stores, mobile food units,
roadside food vendors and temporary food service establishments, the
prohibiting of the sale of unsound or mislabeled food or drink, and the
enforcement of this chapter shall be regulated in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Texas Department of Health, Division of Food and Drugs Rules on
Food Service Sanitation, Rules 229.161-171;
      (2)   Texas Department of Health, Rules for Permitting Retail Food
Stores, Food Service Establishments, Mobile Food Units, Roadside Food Vendors
and Temporary Food Service Establishments, Rules 229.370 through 229.374;
      (3)   Tex. Health and Safety Code, §§ 431.001 through 438.061 (Vernon
1992 and Vernon Supp. 1994) and pertinent amendments thereto.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REGULATORY AUTHORITY.  The City of Canton.
      REVOCATION.  The discontinuance of a permit issued under the sections for
an indefinite period of time.
      SUSPENSION.  The temporary discontinuance of a permit issued under the
sections for an indefinite period of time.
(Ord. 95-02, passed 2-21-1995; Ord. 2008-25, passed 10-21-2008)
§ 112.02  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The City Manager of the city is hereby authorized and directed to cause a
true and correct copy of the caption, penalties, and effective date of Ord.
2008-25 to be published in a newspaper having general circulation in the city
prior to its effective date. Following the publication, this ordinance shall be
in full force and effect.
(Ord. 2008-25, passed 10-21-2008)
SMOKING IN EATING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 112.10  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote public health by decreasing
citizens' exposure to secondhand smoke by creating a smoke-free environment in
all eating establishments, other than private clubs, located within the city
limits.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-21-2009; Ord. 2009-01a, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 112.11  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates of requires a different meaning.
   EATING ESTABLISHMENT.  Any restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, luncheonette,
sandwich stand, soda fountain, and private and public school cafeteria, or any
other eating establishment, organization, club, boardinghouse or guesthouse
which gives or offers for sale food to the public, guests, patrons or
employees, as well as, kitchens in which food is prepared on the premises for
serving elsewhere, including but not limited to, catering facilities.
   SMOKE or SMOKING.  The carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar or
cigarette of any kind, or any other lighted smoking material, equipment or
device, and the lighting, emitting or exhaling the smoke of a pipe, cigar or
cigarette of any kind.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-21-2009; Ord. 2009-01a, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 112.12  VIOLATION.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she smokes inside an eating
establishment, within 20 feet of any public entrance to an eating
establishment, or in a children's playground associated with an eating
establishment within the city.
   (B)   An owner, manager or operator of an eating establishment commits an
offense if he or she allows smoking in the eating establishment or within 20
feet of any public entrance.
   (C)   The owner, manager or operator of an eating establishment commits an
offense if he or she designates or maintains a smoking area in violation of
this subchapter.
   (D)   All eating establishments shall have a conspicuously posted sign
clearly stating "No Smoking at all public entrances. Such "No Smoking" signs
shall have bold lettering of not less than one inch in height. The
international "No Smoking" symbol may also be used (consisting of a pictorial
representation of a burning cigarette enclosed in a red circle with a red bar
across it). The owner or manager of an eating establishment commits an offense
if he or she fails to post and maintain the required signs.
   (E)   All eating establishments shall have facilities for the extinguishment
of smoking materials within  20 feet and outside of the public entrances.
   (F)   All children's playgrounds associated with eating establishments shall
be nonsmoking. All doors and gates leading to such play areas shall have "No
Smoking" signs posted.
   (G)   Exclusion.  Private clubs are excluded from the provisions of this
subchapter.
   (H)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (A) above that the
establishment did not have prominently displayed a reasonably-sized notice that
smoking was prohibited.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (A) above that the
facilities for the extinguishment of smoking materials were not located within
20 feet and outside of the public entrances of the establishment.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-21-2009; Ord. 2009-01a, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 112.13  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement of this subchapter shall be implemented by the City
Manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this subchapter
may initiate enforcement with the City Manager or his or her designee.
   (C)   It is the responsibility of the owner, manager, operator or employee
of any establishment regulated by this subchapter to inform persons violating
this subchapter of the provisions herein.
   (D)   It is the responsibility of the owner, manager, operator or employee
of any establishment regulated by this subchapter to enforce the regulations of
this subchapter at their establishment. Refusal by the owner, manager, operator
or employee of the establishment to enforce the regulations of this subchapter
shall cause the owner, manager, operator or employee to be guilty of an
infraction and subject to penalty. In the event patron(s) of an establishment
regulated by this subchapter fail to adhere to this subchapter, the owner,
manager, operator or employee shall contact the Canton Police Department.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, a private
citizen may bring legal action to enforce this subchapter.
   (F)   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against any employee or applicant for employment because such
employee or applicant exercises any right to a smoke-free environment.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 1-21-2009; Ord. 2009-01a, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions or terms of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed
the sum of $2,000 for each offense, together with the costs of the prosecution.
Each and every day the offense continues shall be deemed to constitute a
separate offense. In addition to and cumulative of all other penalties, the
city shall have the right to seek injunctive relieve for any and all violations
of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates a provision of §§
112.10 through
112.13 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
an amount not less than $25 nor more than $200; provided, however, in the event
the actor has previously been convicted under §§
112.10 through
112.13, the action shall be fined an amount not less than $50 nor more than
$500 for a second conviction hereunder, and shall be fined an amount not less
than $100 nor more than $1,000 for a third conviction hereunder and for each
conviction thereafter.
      (2)   Each occurrence of a violation, or, in the case of continuous
violations, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
offense and may be punished separately.
(Ord. 95-02, passed 2-21-1995; Ord. 2008-25, passed 10-21-2008; Ord. 2009-01,
passed 1-21-2009;  Ord. 2009-01a, passed 2-17-2009)
CHAPTER 113:  GARAGE SALES
Section
   
113.01   Sales limited
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Regulations and requirements
   
113.04   Persons responsible
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  SALES LIMITED.
   (A)   The City of Canton, Texas may designate and regulate garage sales
within its corporate limits and extraterritorial jurisdiction and further
declaring that garage sales by any group or individual are hereby limited to
four such sales per calendar year with each sale limited to three consecutive
days.
   (B)   A permit must be obtained from the City of Canton, Texas at least two
full business days prior to the intended sale. The permit must be displayed in
a conspicuous place on the premises during the hours of operation of the sale.
   (C)   Failure to obtain the required permit or any violation of this chapter
is punishable by fine.
(Ord. 88-2, passed 7-19-1988)
§ 113.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE.  Includes YARD SALE or RUMMAGE SALE or ESTATE SALE or a sale of
anything of value on any premises not considered a retail business
establishment and zoned accordingly, and/or licensed to do business in the City
of Canton and/or State of Texas.
(Ord. 88-2, passed 7-19-1988)
§ 113.03  REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person, group of individuals or entity intending to conduct a
garage sale must first obtain a permit from the City of Canton, Texas for each
such requested or advertised sale.
   (B)   The permit must be obtained at least two full business days (48 hours)
prior to conducting the sale.
   (C)   The fee must be paid prior to the intended sale, or on the date the
permit is received.
   (D)   The names of all persons participating in the sale, including
consignment sellers, and those conducting the sale or associated therewith must
be submitted and listed on the permit. Note: This requirement does not apply to
charitable or non-profit organizations.
   (E)   Sales are limited to not more than three consecutive days. The
intended dates and hours of operation of the sale shall be submitted and placed
on the permit. No sale shall be permitted to be conducted for any period in
excess of three consecutive days.
   (F)   Permits must be displayed in a conspicuous place on the premises
during the operating hours of the sale.
   (G)   No goods shall be sold or sales conducted in city streets, county or
state highways, or any right-of-ways associated therewith.
   (H)   Individuals or groups applying for permits may be denied same if
previously found guilty of a violation of the sign ordinance regulating garage
sale signs and/or a previous violation under this chapter.
   (I)   Persons issued citations for any nonconforming sale shall have a
maximum of two hours for compliance. Failure to comply after that time shall
result in the issuance of an additional citation and fine.
   (J)   All signs posted both on-premise and off-premise shall be removed no
later than two days following the conclusion of the sale.
(Ord. 88-2, passed 7-19-1988; Ord. 89-14, passed 9-19-1989; Ord. 90-2, passed
7-17-1990)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04  PERSONS RESPONSIBLE.
   The term PERSON as utilized in this chapter shall include the individual,
consignment seller or sellers, and/or groups responsible for the sale, the
occupier and/or owner of the premises on which the sale is to be conducted and/
or any person conducting or participating in a sale unlawfully on the premises.
(Ord. 88-2, passed 7-19-1988)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating this chapter shall be punished by
a fine not to exceed $200 for each occurrence. If the sale is in violation of
the city’s zoning regulations, each person is in violation of the city’s zoning
regulations, each person found guilty of violating this chapter is subject to a
fine not to exceed $1,000 for each occurrence.
   (B)   In addition, any nonconforming sale shall be subject to being closed
and all sales stopped until compliance with this chapter. Failure to comply
within the designated time period shall result in the issuance of an additional
citation and an additional fine.
(Ord. 88-2, passed 7-19-1988)
CHAPTER 114:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Violations
   
114.02   Application for permit
   
114.03   Issuance or denial of permit
   
114.04   Revocation of permit
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Door-to-door solicitation.
      (1)   Required permit.  It shall be unlawful for any person to act in the
following manner without first having applied for and obtained a permit from
the Canton City Council:
         (a)   To go from house to house or from place to place in the city
soliciting for donations or soliciting, selling or taking orders for or
offering to sell or take orders for any goods, wares, merchandise, services,
photographs, newspapers, magazines or subscriptions to newspapers or magazines.
      (2)   Exception. The permit requirement shall not apply to:
         (a)   Canton citizens who are engaged in solicitation activities
involving fund-raising for registered nonprofit organizations, charitable
organizations, religious organizations, civic organizations, or Canton and
Martins Mill public or private schools or groups directly affiliated with such
schools;
         (b)   Canton citizens who are political candidates or engaged in door-
to-door advocacy of a political issue, in religious proselytizing, or in the
distribution of handbills and canvassing unrelated to home solicitation
transactions;
         (c)   The distribution of mail by the U.S. Postal Service or the
distribution of newspapers.
      (3)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person to act in the
following manner:
         (a)   To engage in door-to-door solicitation activities in residential
areas between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. standard time and 8:00 p.m.
and 9:00 a.m. during daylight savings time;
         (b)   To go upon any residential premises and ring the doorbell, or
rap or knock upon the door or create any sound in a manner calculated to
attract the attention of the occupant of the residence for the purpose of
securing an audience with the occupant and engaging in or attempting to engage
in a solicitation, if a card stating "No Solicitors" (or words of similar
meaning) is exhibited in a conspicuous place at or near the main entrance of
the residence, unless at the request of the owner or occupant;
         (c)   To go upon any commercial property for the purpose of securing
an audience with the owner, manager or patrons of a business and engaging in or
attempting to engage in a solicitation, if a card stating "No Solicitors" (or
words of similar meaning) is exhibited in a conspicuous place at or near the
main entrance to the business, unless at the request of the owner or manager.
   (B)   Solicitation and distribution of advertising in public rights-of-way
and on private property.
      (1)   Required permit.  It shall be unlawful for any person to act in the
following manner without first having applied for and obtained a permit from
the Canton City Council:
         (a)   To solicit, sell or take orders for, or offer to sell or take
orders for, any goods, wares, merchandise, services, photographs, newspapers,
magazines or subscriptions to newspapers or magazines upon any public property,
sidewalk, street, alley, or right-of-way;
         (b)   To scatter, distribute, throw, deposit or place any
advertisement upon any public property, sidewalk, street, alley or right-of-
way, or deposit, place or leave any such advertisement in any automobile,
truck, bus or other vehicle on public property, or within any public building
or upon any public grounds within the limits of the city;
         (c)   To scatter, distribute, throw, deposit or place any
advertisement upon any private property or business, or to place or leave any
such advertisement in any automobile, truck, bus or other vehicle on private
property;
         (d)   To distribute or cause to be distributed within the territorial
limits of the city any printed or written advertising matter by placing, or
causing to be placed, the same in any yard or on any porch not in possession or
under the control of the person so distributing same;
      (2)   Exceptions. The permit requirement shall not apply to:
         (a)   Canton citizens who are political candidates or engaged in door-
to-door advocacy of a political issue, in religious proselytizing, or
distribution of handbills and canvassing unrelated to home solicitation
transactions;
         (b)   The distribution of mail by the U.S. Postal Service or to the
distribution of newspapers;
         (c)   Any person participating by permission for said activity in a
city-sponsored event or a special event for which a permit has been obtained.
      (3)   Restrictions.  It shall be unlawful for any person to act in the
following manner:
         (a)   To engage in the distribution of handbills or advertising in
residential areas between the hours of 6:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. standard time
and 8:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. during daylight savings time;
         (b)   To engage in the distribution of handbills or advertising upon
any public sidewalk, street, alley, or right-of-way between dusk and dawn;
         (c)   To foist upon any person a handbill without the consent of such
person;
         (d)   To scatter, distribute, throw, deposit or place any
advertisement upon any private property or business, or to place or leave any
such advertisement in any automobile, truck, bus or other vehicle on private
property without the property owner's consent;
         (e)   To post, throw or otherwise place any advertisement in or upon
any private premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or
vacant;
         (f)   To distribute handbills or advertising to motorists on a state
highway or right-of-way in the city limits of Canton. They have been deemed
unsafe for said activity due to the speeds at which motorists may travel.
      (4)   Any person who has gained entrance or access to a premises or an
audience with the occupant, whether invited or not, shall immediately depart
such premises when requested to leave by the occupant.
      (5)   The Police Chief may limit activity based upon the unsafe conduct
of a participant or safety concerns during hazardous weather or traffic
conditions.
   (C)   Solicitation of donations on public property.
      (1)   Required permit.  It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit
donations on public property, sidewalks, streets, alleys, or rights-of-way
without first having applied for and obtained a permit from the City Council of
the City of Canton.
      (2)   Exceptions. The permit requirement shall not apply to any
organization already scheduled to solicit donations through December 31, 2009;
however, the restrictions shall apply.
      (3)   Restrictions. The following limitations and regulations shall
apply:
         (a)   Only Canton chapters or Canton volunteers representing a
nationally-recognized 501(c)(3) non-profit organization or a Canton 501 (c)(3)
non-profit organization collecting for a charity, shall be permitted to conduct
such solicitations during First Monday Trade Days. Permits will be limited to
January, February, March, June, July, August and September as soliciting
impedes traffic flow and increases safety concerns in high volume periods
defined as April, May, October, November and December.
         (b)   Only Canton non-profit organizations shall be permitted to
conduct such solicitations for special occasions during periods other than
First Monday Trade Days.
         (c)   Educational programs benefitting Canton's youth do not qualify
for this permit. The city's First Monday Parking Lot Program is a fund-raising
assistance program available to these organizations.
         (d)   Soliciting is limited to the intersection of Highways 198 and 64
where traffic is controlled by four-way stop signs. Other major intersections
have been deemed unsafe due to the speeds at which motorists may travel.
         (e)   Soliciting will only be allowed for a maximum of four
consecutive hours during daylight hours on the dates specified on the permit.
         (f)   All persons soliciting for the organization shall be required to
wear highly-visible clothing.
         (g)   Participating children must be a minimum age of 12 years and
must be accompanied and directly supervised by an adult at all times.
         (h)   Such solicitations shall not impede the flow of traffic or
create a safety hazard.
         (i)   The organization must post a sign at least two inches by two
inches in size at each location of solicitation stating the name and location
of the organization.
         (j)   The Police Chief may limit solicitations based on safety
concerns during hazardous weather or increased traffic conditions, or on unsafe
conduct of any participants.
         (k)   Failure to comply with the regulations shall result in the
termination of the permit and denial of future requests by the same
organization.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-24-2009; Ord. 2011-01, passed 2-22-2011)
§ 114.02  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for Council consideration must be filed at City Hall on
a form provided by the city at least five business days prior to the regular
City Council meeting. Applicants shall be notified of the Council's decision
for approval or denial within three business days following the City Council
meeting.
   (B)   The application shall state the applicant's name, address, phone
number, drivers license number, proof of identification, and proof of
possession of any license or permit which, under federal, state, or local laws
or regulations, the applicant is required to have in order to conduct the
proposed business; the name, address, phone number, drivers license number,
proof of identification, and proof of possession of any license or permit
required by federal, state or local laws in order to conduct the proposed
business of all persons to be permitted to solicit or distribute advertising
door-to-door; the name, address, and phone number of the organization, firm or
corporation that is being represented and proof of authorization for the
applicant(s) to represent said organization, firm or corporation; a description
of the products or services solicited, the nature of the advertisements, or the
purpose and nature of the solicited donations; and the specific dates and times
such applicant wishes to sell, solicit or distribute in the city.
   (C)   All applications are subject to review by the Canton Police Chief, or
his or her designee, to ensure the protection of the public health, safety, and
general welfare.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-24-2009; Ord. 2011-01, passed 2-22-2011)
§ 114.03  ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The permit shall state the name and address of the person(s),
organization, firm or corporation, if any represented, the kind of good or
service offered for sale, the allowed action and/or purpose, and the area and
period of time allowed for such use. At all times during the permitted
activity, the permit holder shall have the issued permit in his possession and
available for inspection if requested.
   (B)   The City Council shall issue a permit conditioned upon the applicant's
written agreement to comply with the terms of the permit unless Council finds:
      (1)   The location, time, or manner of the activity would unreasonably
interfere with the public's use of streets or endanger the safety and welfare
of the public, the solicitors or their customers;
      (2)   Issuance of the permit would disrupt, to an unreasonable extent,
the movement of traffic;
      (3)   Issuance of the permit would require a diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city it would deny reasonable police
protection to the city;
      (4)   Issuance of the permit would require other city resources to the
extent that it would deny reasonable use of city services to its citizens;
      (5)   Issuance of the permit would interfere or be in conflict with other
permits already issued;
      (6)   Issuance of the permit would conflict with a restriction or
regulation of this chapter;
      (7)   Any information provided in the application is found to be false or
misleading;
      (8)   The applicant or a person named on the application is found to have
been convicted of a felony, misdemeanor, or ordinance violation involving a sex
offense, trafficking in controlled substances, or any violent acts against
persons or property;
      (9)   The applicant or a person named on the application has a conviction
or judgment entered against him or her for fraud, deceit, or misrepresentation
within the preceding five years;
      (10)   The applicant provided no proof of authority to serve as agent of
the organization, firm or corporation represented;
      (11)   The applicant provided no proof of possession of any license or
permit required by federal, state or local laws in order to conduct the
proposed business;
      (12)   The applicant has been denied a permit under this chapter within
the previous 12 months, and the applicant has not shown to the Council's
satisfaction that the reasons for the earlier denial no longer exist.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-24-2009; Ord. 2011-01, passed 2-22-2011)
§ 114.04  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   A permit may be revoked or suspended by the Police Chief for any of the
following:
   (A)   Violation of a term, restriction, or regulation of this chapter or the
issued permit;
   (B)   Any condition for denial or a permit stipulated in §
114.03 is found or occurs following the issuance of the permit;
   (C)   Activities are conducted other than those described in the application
and permit;
   (D)   Activities are conducted in such a manner as to create a public
nuisance, constitute disorderly conduct, or endanger the health, safety, or
general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-24-2009; Ord. 2011-01, passed 2-22-2011)
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor which is punishable by a fine not less than $1 and not to exceed
$500.
   (B)   Each occurrence of a violation, or, in the case of continuous
violations, each day a violation occurs or continues, constitutes a separate
offense and may be punished
(Ord. 2009-05, passed 2-24-2009; Ord. 2011-01, passed 2-22-2011)
CHAPTER 115:  TAXICAB SERVICES
Section
Business License
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Definition
   
115.03   Applications
   
115.04   Character of applicant
   
115.05   Fee
   
115.06   Vehicles
   
115.07   Notification of sale of vehicle; removal of markings
   
115.08   Drivers
   
115.09   Insurance
   
115.10   City not liable for solvency
   
115.11   Traffic rules
   
115.12   Unlawful use
   
115.13   Passengers
   
115.14   Rates of fare; meters
   
115.15   Cruising
   
115.16   Maximum seating
   
115.17   Renewal
   
115.18   Non-transferable
Taxicab Driver’s Permit
   
115.30   General
   
115.31   Fee
   
115.32   Qualifications
   
115.33   Investigation of applicant
   
115.34   Appeal of refusal to issue
   
115.35   License revoked
 
   
115.99   Penalty
BUSINESS LICENSE
§ 115.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of operating a taxicab
in the city without first having secured a license therefor. Applications for
those licenses shall be made in writing to the City Secretary upon forms
provided by the City of Canton.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the application, the City Secretary shall schedule a
hearing before the City Council at its next regular meeting. Upon consideration
of the application, the City Council may grant or refuse the permit, as in its
discretion may be in the best interest of the citizens of the city and the
public in general. The City Council may require additional requirements and
conditions in the permit to be issued which shall be cumulative of and in
addition to those required by this chapter.
   (C)   All permits for the conduct of a taxicab in the city shall be issued
and signed by the City Secretary. Each permit shall be dated on the day of its
issuance; shall bear a serial number; shall show the name and address of the
operator; and shall state that the operator has been authorized by the City
Council to conduct a taxicab business in the city until the expiration date
stated thereon.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.02  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB or CAB.  Includes any vehicle used to carry passengers for hire but
not operating on a fixed route.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.03  APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for permits shall be made upon City of Canton forms which
require:
   (A)   The operator’s name, address and verified signature;
   (B)   Trade or other fictitious name, if any, under which the operator does
or proposes to do business. If the operator is, or proposes or intends to do
business as a partnership or corporation:
      (1)   Name of partnership or corporation;
      (2)   Place and date of incorporation or date of partnership;
      (3)   Names and addresses of all partners or incorporators;
      (4)   Names, addresses and titles of all managing partners or corporate
officers;
      (5)   Name and address of corporate registered agent;
      (6)   Names and addresses of all persons owning or otherwise holding as
much as 10% of the partnership or corporate stock; and
      (7)   Additional information as the city considers necessary to assist or
promote the enforcement of this article or to protect public safety.
   (C)   Description of any past business experience of the operator,
particularly in providing passenger transportation services. If the applicant
has ever had a transportation service permit revoked, the applicant shall
provide a complete statement of the circumstances surrounding the revocation;
   (D)   The location and description of the place(s) from which the operator
intends to operate;
   (E)   Number and description of vehicles the operator proposes to use,
including year, make, model, manufacturer’s rated seating capacity, motor
identification number and state license registration number for each vehicle
and description of taximeter installed, if available at the time of
application. If the operator does not own any vehicles at the time of
application, the number and description of the vehicles proposed to be used
shall be listed, and, prior to putting vehicles into service, shall be
registered with the city in accordance with this article. As vehicles are added
or removed, that information must be provided to the city, prior to the new
vehicles going into service and within five days of being removed;
   (F)   Prior to the issuance of a permit by the city, the operator shall
provide a list of all drivers employed by the operator. When additional drivers
are employed, their names shall be provided, in writing, to the city;
   (G)   Description of the service to be offered and rates to be charged; and
   (H)   The agreement of the operator that, in the event such permit is
granted, 60-days’ written notice of discontinuance of taxi service shall be
given to the city.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.04  CHARACTER OF APPLICANT.
   No such license shall be issued to or be held by any person who has been
convicted of a felony; nor shall the license be issued to or held by any
corporation if any officer thereof would be ineligible for a license under the
foregoing conditions, at the time of issuance or during the permitted term.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.05  FEE.
   (A)   The annual fee, payable in advance, for such licenses shall be $25
plus $10 for each taxicab operated. Whenever the number of cabs so operated
shall be increased during the license year, the operator shall notify the City
Secretary of the change and shall pay the additional fee.
   (B)   The City Secretary shall issue suitable tags or stickers for the
number of cabs covered by each license. The tag or sticker shall be displayed
in a prominent place on each taxicab while it is in use, and may be transferred
to any taxicab put into service to replace one withdrawn from service.
   (C)   The operator shall notify the City Secretary of the motor number and
state license number of each cab operated and of the corresponding city tag or
sticker number.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.06  VEHICLES.
   (A)   Every motor vehicle operated upon the streets of the city as a taxicab
shall be kept clean, sanitary, fit, and of good appearance, and in a safe
condition for the transportation of passengers. No taxicab shall be operated
unless it bears a state license duly issued; and no such cab shall be operated
unless it is equipped with proper brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear
vision mirror and windshield wiper in good condition. It shall be the duty of
the Chief of Police or his or her designee to inspect every taxicab so often as
may be necessary to see to the enforcement of the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Every vehicle operated as a taxicab within the City of Canton shall
comply with all requirements for vehicles operated on the public highways by
the Texas Department of Public Safety insofar as inspection and mechanical
safety is concerned. And the city may demand and require special inspection by
a competent resident mechanic at any time and may require the owner of such
taxicab to keep and maintain such vehicle in a safe mechanical condition.
   (C)   Each taxicab, while operated, shall have on each side, in letters
readable from a distance of 20 feet, the name of the operator operating it. If
more than one cab is operated by a operator each cab shall be designated by a
different number, and the number also shall so appear on each side of such cab.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.07  NOTIFICATION OF SALE OF VEHICLE; REMOVAL OF MARKINGS.
   (A)   Every operator upon the sale or other disposition of a licensed
taxicab shall within 24 hours notify the City Secretary of the sale or other
disposition.
   (B)   All identification markings shall be removed prior to delivery of a
taxicab upon sale or other disposition thereof
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.08  DRIVERS.
   (A)   No person shall drive a taxicab, or be hired or permitted to do so,
unless he or she is duly licensed by state law to carry passengers for hire.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any driver of a taxicab while on duty to
drink any intoxicating liquor, or to use any profane or obscene language, to
shout or call to prospective passengers, or to disturb the peace in any way.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09  INSURANCE.
   (A)   Each taxicab operated within the city limits or police jurisdiction
thereof shall be required to carry and maintain in effect the following minimum
personal injury and property damage liability insurance:
      (1)   Comprehensive general liability insurance, public liability
including premises, products and complete operations:
         (a)   Bodily injury liability:
            1.   Each person: $250,000; and
            2.   Each occurrence: $500,000.
         (b)   Property damage liability, each occurrence: $100,000 or in lieu
of division (1)(a) above and this division (b); and
         (c)   Bodily injury and property damage combined, single limit:
$500,000.
      (2)   Comprehensive automobile liability insurance including owned, non-
owned and hired vehicles:
         (a)   Bodily injury liability:
            1.   Each person: $250,000; and
            2.   Each occurrence: $500,000.
         (b)   Property damage liability, each occurrence: $100,000 or in lieu
of divisions (1)(a) and (b) above; and
         (c)   Bodily injury and property damage combined, single limit:
$500,000.
   (B)   The minimum amount of liability insurance shall never be less than the
amount established by the statutes of the State of Texas under the Texas Safety
Responsibility Act, or any amendments thereto.
   (C)   No permit required by this chapter or business license shall be
granted to any person to operate any taxicab upon the streets or elsewhere in
the city or its police jurisdiction until that person shall have first filed
with the City Secretary a certificate of the above-stated insurance
requirements, issued to such person by a public liability insurance company
authorized to do business in the State of Texas.
   (D)   The insurance coverage required by this section shall at all times be
maintained for the full amount. The certificate of each policy or polices of
insurance required by this section to be filed with the City Secretary shall
contain a clause obligating the company issuing the same to give not less than
30-days’ written notice to the City Secretary before cancellation thereof.
Notice of cancellation shall not relieve the company issuing the policy or
policies of liability insurance for any injury or claim arising before the
cancellation becomes effective. The cancellation of any such policy shall have
the effect of suspending the permit of the person to operate any taxicabs
covered thereby until a new policy or policies complying with the provisions of
this section is filed with the City Secretary.
   (E)   Every insurance policy required hereunder shall contain a provision
for a continuing liability thereunder to the full amount thereof,
notwithstanding any recovery thereon, that the liability of the insurer shall
not be affected by the insolvency or the bankruptcy of the insured and that
until the policy is canceled the insurance company will not be relieved from
liability on account of nonpayment of premium, or any act or omission by the
named insured. The policy of insurance shall further provide for the payment of
any and all judgments, up to the limits of the policy, recovered against any
person other than the owner, the owner’s agent or employee of any such
business, who may operate the same with the consent or acquiescence of the
owner.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.10  CITY NOT LIABLE FOR SOLVENCY.
   Neither the City of Canton nor any officer thereof shall be held liable for
the pecuniary responsibility or solvency of any insurer under the provisions of
this section, or in any manner become liable for any sum or account of any such
claim or act or omission relating to the insured vehicle nor shall the
liability of the owner of any such vehicle be in any manner limited or changed
by reason of the provisions of this section, but the judgment creditor having
causes of action secured thereby shall be authorized to sue directly on the
policy of insurance without impleading the city, and all persons known to any
insurer to have been injured.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.11  TRAFFIC RULES.
   It shall be the duty of every driver of a taxicab to obey all traffic rules
established by statute or ordinance.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12  UNLAWFUL USE.
   It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any taxicab to be used in the
perpetration of a crime or misdemeanor.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13  PASSENGERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the driver of any taxicab to accept as a
passenger any person who seeks to so use the taxicab, provided the person is
not intoxicated or under the influence of drugs and conducts himself in an
orderly manner. No person shall be admitted to a taxicab occupied by a
passenger without the consent of the passenger.
   (B)   The driver shall take his or her passenger to his or her destination
by the most direct available route from the place where the passenger enters
the cab.
   (C)   No driver of a taxicab shall receive or discharge passengers in the
roadway of any street, but shall drive to the right hand sidewalk, as nearly as
possible, or in the absence of a sidewalk, to the extreme right hand side of
the roadway, and there receive or discharge passengers.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab driver or owner to knowingly
transport any person in the violation of the any provision of the Texas Penal
Code, or of any criminal laws of the United States of America.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14  RATES OF FARE; METERS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have the authority to fix the rates, charges
and fares of all taxicabs operating within the city.
   (B)   The City Council may authorize operators to implement new rate
schedules under the following provisions.
      (1)   Taxicab operators may propose their own rates by providing a copy
of the proposed rate schedule and the proposed effective date to the City
Secretary at least 14 days prior to the proposed date of the rates being placed
into effect, which rates shall be published one time in the official newspaper
as soon as possible.
      (2)   The City Council or City Manager may suspend the implementation of
the new proposed rates by written notice to the taxicab operator within 14 days
of receipt of the proposed rate changes. If no such suspension notice is given,
the proposed rates may be placed into effect on the proposed date.
      (3)   The City Council shall, if the suspension notice herein provided
for is given, hold a public hearing within 30 days of filing for rate increase
if in the opinion of the City Manager or of the City Council such a hearing
will be in the public interest. The City Council at the hearing may accept the
proposed rates, refuse the rates, or set the rates as it may see fit and
proper.
      (4)   Each taxicab operator may operate under its own rate schedule in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (5)   There shall be posted at all times in each operating taxicab within
the city limits of the City of Canton a map of the City of Canton and a rate
charge.
   (C)   If any operator shall refuse to convey a passenger at the rate
specified on the rate card displayed in the taxicab or shall demand or receive
an amount in excess of the rate displayed on the card, he or she shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   No taxicab shall be operated unless it is equipped with a meter in
good and workable condition to record the amount to be charged on each trip,
which amount shall be shown in figures visible to the passenger. Upon paying
his or her fare each passenger shall be given a receipt showing the amount so
paid and the name of the company or person operating the cab, together with the
number of the cab if the company or person operates more than one taxicab in
the city. All taximeters must be inspected annually by certified state motor
vehicle inspector provided by the operator to ensure they are in proper working
order. The city may require additional meter inspections at any time.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for a passenger to fail or refuse to pay the
lawful fare at the termination of the trip.
   (F)   No extra charge shall be made for baggage or parcels the size of which
permits them to be carried in the cab.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.15  CRUISING.
   It shall be unlawful for any driver of any taxicab to drive or cruise about
on the streets of the city seeking passengers who have not theretofore ordered
or called for a taxicab.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.16  MAXIMUM SEATING.
   No taxicab shall be operated overloaded with passengers and no operator
shall carry more than five passengers.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.17  RENEWAL.
   Any license issued hereunder may be renewed annually for additional periods
of one year each from the date of expiration upon the certification under oath
that there have been no changes in the information submitted in the application
for license.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.18  NON-TRANSFERABLE.
   The taxicab license issued hereunder shall not be transferable without
written consent of the city.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
TAXICAB DRIVER’S PERMIT
§ 115.30  GENERAL.
   No person shall drive a taxicab unless he or she shall have secured a permit
therefor as herein provided.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.31  FEE.
   (A)   The annual fee for a taxicab driver’s license shall be $10 and shall
be paid at the time of filing the application.
   (B)   The fee shall be non-refundable even if the application is denied.
   (C)   All permits shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance.
   (D)   A fee will be charged to replace a lost permit.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.32  QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person may drive a taxicab without having a valid Class C license
and a current city-issued driver’s permit. A taxi operator may not employ any
person as a driver unless the person has a valid Class C license.
   (B)   Original applications or renewals for a city driver’s permit shall
contain:
      (1)   Applicant’s full name, current address, places of residence for the
last five years and length of time of residence in the city;
      (2)   Applicant’s age, height and eye and hair color;
      (3)   Whether applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor that relates directly to applicant’s ability to perform duties as a
driver and, if so, the date, time, place and nature or type of offenses;
      (4)   Whether applicant is able to speak, read and write the English
language;
      (5)   Whether the applicant is free of defective vision, defective
hearing, epilepsy, vertigo, heart trouble, communicable social diseases and any
other infirmity, physical or mental, which would render him or her unfit for
the safe operation of a taxicab;
      (6)   Applicant’s current Texas Class C driver’s license number and a
copy of applicant’s moving violation record obtained from the Texas Department
of Public Safety;
      (7)   The name of the operator for which applicant intends to work;
      (8)   Three recent passport-size photos of the applicant and a set of the
applicant’s fingerprints, which fingerprints shall be taken by the Police
Department of the city; and
      (9)   Other information as the city deems necessary to a fair
determination of fitness as a driver.
   (C)   The application shall be verified under oath before a notary public.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.33  INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Police Department shall conduct an investigation of each applicant for a
license and a report of the investigation and a copy of the traffic and police
record of the applicant, if any, shall be attached to the application.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.34  APPEAL OF REFUSAL TO ISSUE.
   (A)   The City Secretary shall, upon consideration of the application for a
license and the reports and the certificate required to be attached thereto,
approve or reject the application. If the application is rejected, the
applicant may appeal the order to the City Council.
   (B)   In the event of the appeal, the entire record of the application shall
be sent to the City Council who will set a time and place for a hearing on the
appeal. At such time and place the applicant may appear and present evidence as
to why a license should be issued to the applicant.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.35  LICENSE REVOKED.
   The Mayor may revoke any taxicab driver’s license for any false statements
made in the application for license, repeated violations of traffic laws or
ordinances, or the violation of any ordinance provision regulating the conduct
of the drivers.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be fined not less
than $25 nor more than $500 for each offense, and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-16-1999)
CHAPTER 116:  ALCOHOLIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Permit required, permit fee, and permit renewal fees
   
116.03   Hours of sale of alcoholic beverages
   
116.04   Gross receipts
   
116.05   Tax purpose
   
116.06   Administrative requirements
   
116.07   Sale of alcoholic beverages prohibited near public schools, private
schools, churches or hospitals
   
116.08   Sale of alcoholic beverages prohibited near day care centers and child
care facilities; exception
   
116.09   Sale of beer prohibited in residential areas
   
116.10   Consumption of alcoholic beverage and possession of an open container
near public or private schools; exception
   
116.11   Consumption of alcoholic beverage and possession of an open container
near homeless shelter or substance abuse treatment center; exception
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.  Alcohol, or any beverage containing more than .5% of
alcohol by volume, which is capable of use for beverage purposes, either alone
or when diluted.
   BEER.  A malt beverage containing .5% or more of alcohol by volume and not
more than 4% of alcohol by weight, and does not include a beverage designated
by label or otherwise by a name other than beer.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY.  A facility licensed, certified, or registered by the
Department to provide assessment, care, training, education, custody,
treatment, or supervision for a child who is not related by blood, marriage, or
adoption to the owner or operator of the facility, for all or part of the 24
hour day, whether or not the facility is operated for profit or charges for the
services it offers.
   DAY CARE CENTER.  A child-care facility that provides care for more than 12
children under 14 years of age for less than 24 hours a day.
   DEALER. The same as that term is used in Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code §
109.33, V.T.C.S., and shall include PERSON as that term is defined herein.
   OPEN CONTAINER.  A container that is no longer sealed.
   PERSON.  A natural person or association of natural persons, trustee,
receiver, partnership, corporation, organization, or the manager, agent,
servant, or employee of any of them.
   PRIVATE SCHOOL.  A private school, including a parochial school, that:
      (1)   Offers a course of instruction for students in one or more grades
from kindergarten through grade 12; and
      (2)   Has more than 100 students enrolled and attending courses at a
single location.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 2009-35, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2019-04,
passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.02  PERMIT REQUIRED, PERMIT FEE, AND PERMIT RENEWAL FEES.
   (A)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture,
distill, brew, import, transport, store for purposes of sale, distribute or
sell any alcoholic beverages within the city unless such person has obtained a
city permit from the office of the City Secretary.
   (B)   Initial permit fee. After approval by all necessary city departments,
the permit application shall be deemed approved and the City Secretary shall
issue a city permit upon payment by the applicant of the initial permit fee.
The city's initial permit fee shall be equal to one-half of the state fee
required by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission of every person that may be
issued any state permit or license for the manufacture, distilling, brewing,
importing, transporting, storing, distributing or sale of any alcoholic
beverage, unless a different fee is allowed or required by state law. No city
permit may be issued unless the initial permit fee is received.
   (C)   Renewal of permits. All permits shall be renewed annually unless
otherwise provided by state law. All permits shall terminate at midnight on the
day before the anniversary date of their issuance and no permit shall be issued
covering a term longer than one year unless otherwise provided by state law.
   (D)   Annual permit renewal fee. The city shall require payment of an annual
permit renewal fee by all establishments selling alcoholic beverages within the
city. The permit renewal fee shall be equal to one-half of the state fee
required by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission of every person that may be
issued any state permit or license for the manufacture, distilling, brewing,
importing, transporting, storing, distributing or sale of any alcoholic
beverage, unless a different fee is allowed or required by state law.
   (E)   Cancellation of permit. The City Secretary may cancel a permit if a
permittee fails to pay the permit renewal fee. The City Secretary shall send
notice of such cancellation to the address on file with the permit application.
   (F)   Permit application. Permit applications shall be kept on file in the
City Secretary's office. The City Secretary shall issue a receipt for the
initial permit fee and keep a record of the same in the City Secretary's
office.
   (G)   Penalty. A permittee who sells an alcoholic beverage without first
having paid the initial permit fee or permit renewal fee under this section
commits a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less than $10 nor more than
$200.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.03  HOURS OF SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   The holder of any of the following licenses or permits issued by the Texas
Alcoholic Beverage Commission may permit persons to consume or be served
alcoholic beverages on premises for the extended hours between midnight and 2:
00 a.m. on any day, if the holder has:
   (A)   A retail dealer's on-premises late hours license;
   (B)   A mixed beverage late hours permit; or
   (C)   A private club late hours permit.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 2009-35, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2012-05,
passed 3-20-2012; Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.04  GROSS RECEIPTS.
   (A)   The party or entity operating the business shall, on a monthly basis,
on a date coinciding with the date that the same information is furnished to
the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission, file with the City Secretary an
affidavit reflecting gross receipts and sales of the business. The affidavit
shall contain a statement reflecting the gross sales attributable to food and
gross sales attributable to off premise beer and wine sales.
   (B)   The affidavit shall be accompanied by a letter signed by a certified
public accountant licensed to practice in the State of Texas. The letter shall
state that the accountant has reviewed the affidavit and that the affidavit is
accurate based on the data provided to the accountant by the owner or operator
of the business. The letter shall contain the address, telephone number and
license number of the certified public accountant.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.05  TAX PURPOSE.
   The party or entity shall also file with the City Secretary, on a monthly
basis, on a date coinciding with the date that such information is furnished to
the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission, the gross receipts and figures
furnished to the State of Texas for sales tax and beer and wine tax purposes.
This provision applies to any business permitted to sell off premise beer and
wine.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.06  ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS.
   The party or entity shall also furnish receipts from suppliers upon request
of the City Secretary. Such receipts shall, upon request, reflect current sales
and operations for up to the previous 12 months from the date of request.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.07  SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED NEAR PUBLIC SCHOOLS, PRIVATE
SCHOOLS, CHURCHES, OR HOSPITALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any dealer to sell alcoholic beverages from
or at a place of business within this city within 300 feet of a church, public
or private school, or public hospital.
   (B)   This section does not apply to the holder of:
      (1)   A license or permit who also holds a food and beverage certificate
covering a premise that is located within 300 feet of a private school; or
      (2)   A license or permit covering a premise where minors are prohibited
from entering under § 109.53 of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code and that is
located within 300 feet of a private school.
   (C)   The measurement of the distance between the place of business where
alcoholic beverages are sold and the church or public hospital shall be along
the property lines of the street fronts and from front door to front door, and
in direct line across intersections.
   (D)   The measurement of the distance between the place of business where
alcoholic beverages are sold and the public or private school shall be:
      (1)   In a direct line from the property line of the public or private
school to the property line of the place of business, and in a direct line
across intersections; or
      (2)   If the permit or license holder is located on or above the fifth
story of a multistory building, in a direct line from the property line of the
public or private school to the property line of the place of business, in a
direct line across intersections, and vertically up the building at the
property line to the base of the floor on which the permit or license holder is
located.
   (E)   Variances. The City Council of the City of Canton, Texas may allow a
variance to this section if City Council determines that the enforcement of the
regulations in a particular instance is not in the best interest of the public,
constitutes waste or inefficient use of land and other resources, creates an
undue hardship on the applicant for a license or permit, does not serve its
intended purpose, is not effective or necessary, or for any other reason the
City Council determines, after consideration of the health, safety and welfare
of the public and the equities of such regulation, that the variance is in the
best interest of the community.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 2009-35, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2019-04,
passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.08  SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED NEAR DAY CARE CENTERS AND
CHILD CARE FACILITIES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a wine and beer retailer's
permit, mixed beverage permit, private club registration permit, retail
dealer's on-premise license, or brewpub license who does not hold a food and
beverage certificate to sell alcoholic beverages from or at a place of business
within this city within 300 feet of a day care center or child care facility.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a permit or license holder who sells
alcoholic beverages if:
      (1)   The permit or license holder and the day care center or child care
facility are located on different stories of a multi-story building; or
      (2)   The permit or license holder and the day care center or child care
facility are located in separate buildings and either the permit or license
holder or the day care center or child care facility is located on the second
story or higher of a multi-story building.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a foster group home, foster family
home, family home, agency group home, or agency home as those terms are defined
by Tex. Human Resources Code § 42.002.
   (D)   The measurement of the distance between the place of business where
alcoholic beverages are sold and the day care center or child care facility
shall be:
      (1)   In a direct line from the property line of the day care center or
child care facility to the property line of the place of business, and in a
direct line across intersections; or
      (2)   If the permit or license holder is located on or above the fifth
story of a multistory building, in a direct line from the property line of the
day care center or child care facility to the property line of the place of
business, in a direct line across intersections, and vertically up the building
at the property line to the base of the floor on which the permit or license
holder is located.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 2009-35, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2019-04,
passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.09  SALE OF BEER PROHIBITED IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or dealer to sell beer in residential
areas within this city.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 2009-35, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2019-04,
passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.10  CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE AND POSSESSION OF AN OPEN CONTAINER
NEAR PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SCHOOLS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person possesses an open container
or consumes an alcoholic beverage on a public street, public alley, or public
sidewalk within 1,000 feet of the property line of a facility that is a public
or private school, including a parochial school, that provides all or any part
of pre-kindergarten through twelfth grade.
   (B)   This section does not apply to the possession of an open container or
the consumption at an event duly authorized by appropriate authorities and held
in compliance with all other applicable provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 2009-35, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2019-04,
passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.11  CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE AND POSSESSION OF AN OPEN CONTAINER
NEAR HOMELESS SHELTER OR SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT CENTER; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   The term "Central Business District" as used in this section means a
compact and contiguous geographical area of the city used for commercial
purposes that has historically been the primary location in the city where
business has been transacted.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person possesses an open container
or consumes an alcoholic beverage on a public street, public alley, or public
sidewalk within 1,000 feet of the property line of a homeless shelter or
substance abuse treatment center that is not located in the Central Business
District.
   (C)   This section does not apply to the possession of an open container or
the consumption at an event duly authorized by appropriate authorities and held
in compliance with all other applicable provisions of this code.
(Ord. 2019-04, passed 5-21-2019)
§ 116.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon final conviction thereof
be fined in the amount not to exceed $500; each and every day any such
violation shall continue shall constitute a separate violation hereunder.
(Ord. 2009-09, passed 9-14-2009; Ord. 2009-35, passed 11-17-2009; Ord. 2019-04,
passed 5-21-2019)
Statutory reference:
   General enforcement authority of municipalities, see Tex. Local Gov't Code,
§§ 54.001, 54.012, 54.016
   General penalty, see Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code, § 105
CHAPTER 117:  RENTAL OF MOTORIZED
PERSONAL TRANSPORTATION DEVICES
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Permit required
   
117.03   Application
   
117.04   Insurance
   
117.05   Standards for devices
   
117.06   Authorized renters
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
    MOTORIZED PERSONAL TRANSPORTATION DEVICE or MPTD.  A device that is self-
propelled and designed to be used by a single person to assist in moving along
sidewalks, corridors, or other passageways. It does not include a motor vehicle
that is licensed for or appropriate for use on streets.
   RENT.  To permit, for a term of less than 30 days, the use of a MPTD by a
person other than the owner of the MPTD for consideration.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 117.02  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to rent a motorized personal transportation
device for use in the City of Canton unless the owner of the device has a
permit from the City of Canton.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to rent or operate a motorized
personal transportation device for use in the City of Canton in violation of
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 8-20-2013)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.03  APPLICATION.
   (A)   An owner of one of more MPTDs who wishes to rent MPTDs to the public
may apply for a permit by submitting an application, on a form to be approved
by the City Manager, which includes at least the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant;
      (2)   The address of the applicant;
      (3)   If the applicant is not an individual, the name of an individual
who will be the contact person for the city;
      (4)   The address and telephone number of the contact person;
      (5)   A list of the MPTD’s the applicant wishes to rent to the public;
      (6)   All locations from which the applicant will operate;
      (7)   A promise to indemnify, defend, and hold the City of Canton
harmless from any ciaim resulting from the operation of an MPTD; and
      (8)   Identification of the liability insurance policy that will meet the
standards of Section
117.04.
   (B)   The nonrefundable application fee is $25.
   (C)   Upon submission of the completed application and the application fee,
and upon confirmation that the insurance policy identified in the application
is valid and meets the requirements of this chapter, the city shall issue the
permit.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 117.04  INSURANCE.
   A permit holder must continuously maintain liability insurance applicable to
the operation of MPTDs by its customers that meets the following standards:
   (A)   It shall provide at least $1,000,000 combined single limit coverage
with no deductible;
   (B)   It shall be issued by an insurance company authorized to do business
in the State of Texas;
   (C)   It shall name the City of Canton as an additional insured;
   (D)   It shall not be cancellable until 30 days after the receipt by the
City of notice of intent to cancel.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 8-20-2013)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05  STANDARDS FOR DEVICES.
   All MPTDs rented by a permit holder must:
   (A)   Be well-maintained in proper, safe operating condition;
   (B)   Not have worn cushions, seats, wheels, or other parts so as to be
unsightly;
   (C)   Be designed to carry no more than one person; and
   (D)   Have affixed to the MPTD a sticker that shows:
      (1)   The name of the permit holder;
      (2)   A number or other identification of the individual device; and
      (3)   The telephone number of the permit holder.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 8-20-2013)
§ 117.06  AUTHORIZED RENTERS.
   An MPTD rented under this chapter may be operated only by a person who is 18
years of age or older, or who can show proof of disability.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 8-20-2013)  Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.99  PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable in accordance with the
standard penalties provided in §
10.99 of the City Code. Each rental of a MPTD not in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter shall be a separate offense.
(Ord. 2013-12, passed 8-20-2013)
CHAPTER 118:  AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINES AND GAME ROOMS
Section
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Permit required; license required
   
118.03   Occupation tax levied
   
118.04   Payment of occupation tax; receipt to be attached to amusement
redemption machine
   
118.05   Payment of annual inspection and license fee; issuance of license
   
118.06   Term of license; jurisdiction; scope
   
118.07   Restrictions, regulations, controls, and limitations
   
118.08   Application for amusement redemption machine game room license
   
118.09   Renewal of amusement redemption machine game room license
   
118.10   Grounds for denial of license; applicants or licensees indebted to
city
   
118.11   Suspension or revocation of license for violation of chapter
   
118.12   Appeal from denial, suspension or revocation of license
   
118.13   Display of license
   
118.14   Replacement of license
   
118.15   Inspections
   
118.16   Responsibility of licensee
   
118.17   Parking facilities
   
118.18   Violations of existing laws not authorized
   
118.19   Master fee schedule, occupation tax, annual inspection and license fee
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE.
      (1)   A recreational machine that provides the user with an opportunity
to receive something of value other than a right of replay and which complies
with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to
such machines.
      (2)   A skill or pleasure coin-operated machine that is designed, made
and adapted solely for bona fide amusement purposes, and that by operation of
chance or a combination of skill and chance affords the user an opportunity to
receive exclusively non-cash merchandise prizes, toys, novelties, or a
representation of value redeemable for those items.
      (3)   Any electronic, electromechanical or mechanical contrivance
designed, made and adapted solely for bona fide amusement purposes if the
contrivance rewards the player exclusively with non-cash merchandise, prizes,
or novelties, or a representation of value redeemable for those items, that
have a wholesale value available from a single play of the game or device of
not more than ten times the amount charged to play the game or device once or
$5, whichever amount is less.
   AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE GAME ROOM or GAME ROOM.  Any establishment,
building, facility or other place where two or more amusement redemption
machines, with the exception of excluded machines, are displayed or exhibited
for public use.
   COIN-OPERATED MACHINE.  Any kind of machine or device operated by or with a
coin or other United States currency, metal slug, token, electronic card, or
check, including a music or skill or pleasure coin-operated machine.
   EXCLUDED MACHINES.  An amusement redemption machine game room does not
include:
      (1)   A recreational machine that provides the user with an opportunity
to receive something of value other than a right of replay and which complies
with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to
such machines.
      (2)   A machine that awards the user non-cash merchandise prizes, toys or
novelties solely and directly from the machine, including claw, crane, or
similar machines; nor
      (3)   A machine from which the opportunity to receive non-cash
merchandise prizes, toys, or novelties, or a representation of value redeemable
for those items, varies depending upon the user’s ability to throw, roll, flip,
toss, hit, or drop a ball or other physical object into the machine or a part
thereof, including basketball, skeet ball, golf, bowling, pusher, or similar
machines; nor
      (4)   A machine or any device defined in § 47.01 of the Texas Penal Code
as a gambling device, or any activity prohibited or described in Chapter 47 of
the Texas Penal Code.
   GAME ROOM OWNER or OWNER.  A person who has an ownership interest of at
least 25% in a game room.
   LICENSEE.  Any person, individual, firm, company, association, or
corporation operating an amusement redemption machine game room in the city.
   OPERATIONAL MACHINE.  An amusement redemption machine that is ready to be
played and which is accessible to the public.
   PERMITTEE.  Any person, individual, firm, company, association, or
corporation maintaining, displaying for public patronage, or otherwise keeping
for operation the public any gaming machine in the city.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.02  PERMIT REQUIRED; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall maintain, display for public patronage, or otherwise
keep for operation by the public any amusement redemption machine without first
obtaining a permit from the City of Canton issued under the terms and
conditions of this chapter. No permit shall be issued until the occupation tax
has been paid for each amusement redemption machine as required by this
chapter.
   (B)   No person shall operate an amusement redemption machine game room in
the city without first obtaining a license from the City of Canton, as required
by this section. No license shall be issued until the occupation tax has been
paid by the game room owner for each amusement redemption machine within the
premises, and the applicable game room license fee has been paid by the game
room owner.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)  Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.03  OCCUPATION TAX LEVIED.
   (A)   Every person who owns, controls, exhibits, dispiays, or permits to be
exhibited or displayed in this city any amusement redemption machine shall pay,
and there is hereby levied on every amusement redemption machine except such as
are exempted in this chapter, an annual occupation tax per machine equal to 25%
of the occupation tax charged and collected by the State of Texas: which
occupation tax is specifically authorized by Texas Occupations Code § 2153.451.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prevent the operator of the amusement
redemption machines from paying the tax levied in this section for the account
of the owner, but the payment of the tax by the operator or other person shall
not relieve the owner from the responsibility of complying with all provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.04  PAYMENT OF OCCUPATION TAX; RECEIPT TO BE ATTACHED TO AMUSEMENT
REDEMPTION MACHINE.
   (A)   The occupation tax levied by this chapter shall be paid to the City of
Canton. The city shall issue a receipt reflecting payment of the occupation tax
per machine.
   (B)   The receipt reflecting payment of the occupation tax shall be attached
to the amusement redemption machine mentioned in the receipt and shall bear the
serial number of the particular amusement redemption machine.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, exhibit, or display
any amusement redemption machine in the city without having attached thereto an
occupation tax receipt. It shall also be unlawful for any occupation tax
receipt issued for a certain amusement redemption machine to be transferred to
any other amusement redemption machine.
   (D)   The fee for issuing a replacement occupational tax receipt for one
lost, destroyed or mutilated shall be 50% of the original occupation tax paid.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)  Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.05  PAYMENT OF ANNUAL INSPECTION AND LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   An owner, operator, or lessee of an amusement redemption machine game room
shall be required to secure a license annually. An amusement redemption machine
game room shall be required to secure a license by paying to the city an annual
inspection and amusement redemption machine game room license fee in the amount
identified in § 118.19 per machine kept within and about the licensed premises.
Upon payment of the fee and compliance with all licensing requirements, the
license shall be issued by the City of Canton.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.06  TERM OF LICENSE; JURISDICTION; SCOPE.
   (A)   A license issued for an amusement redemption machine game room under
this chapter:
      (1)   Is an annual license which expires December 31 of each year unless
it is suspended or cancelled earlier;
      (2)   Is effective for a single place of business only;
      (3)   Vests no property right in the licensee except to maintain, display
for public patronage, and permit the use or skill or pleasure of amusement
redemption machines in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter;
      (4)   Shall automatically expire if the licensee thereof sells the
property or the business, transfers equity to accomplish same, or otherwise
disposes of amusement redemption machines; and
      (5)   Is not assignable or transferable.
   (B)   In addition, the city shall not refund any portion of a license fee
after the license is issued, nor shall it prorate or reduce in amount any fee
due to the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the initial license issued to
an existing amusement redemption machine game room following the adoption of
this chapter and the game room’s compliance with the requirements of this
chapter shall not expire until December 31, 2018. Thereafter, any such license
shall expire as provided herein-above.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.07  RESTRICTIONS, REGULATIONS, CONTROLS, AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   All building and fire code standards must be met. Inspection by
building officials and the issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be
obtained before a license for an amusement redemption machine game room is
issued.
   (B)   Only one amusement redemption machine game room shall be permitted on
any lot or in any single building structure or strip center.
   (C)   No amusement redemption machine game room shall be situated within 300
feet of any church, school, daycare, hospital or any other amusement redemption
machine game room. The distance shall be measured in a straight line without
regard to intervening objects or structures and from the nearest lot line of
the amusement redemption machine game room seeking a license to the nearest lot
line of the church, school, daycare, hospital or any other amusement redemption
machine game room.
   (D)   No alcoholic beverages shall be served or allowed on the licensed
premises. No amusement redemption machines or related business activities shall
be allowed to be situated and/or performed outdoors.
   (E)   The hours of operation for an amusement redemption machine game rooms
shall be limited to the following hours:
      (1)   Monday through Thursday, open at 8:30 a.m. and close at 1 1:00
p.m.; and
      (2)   Friday through Sunday, open at 8:30 a.m. and close at 12:00 a.m.
   (F)   One parking space shall be provided for each two amusement redemption
machines within the amusement redemption machine game room, plus one additional
parking space for each employee per shift.
   (G)   The owner, operator, or manager of the licensed premises must be
present to supervise the operation of the amusement redemption machine game
room. The amusement redemption machine game room shall not be left unattended.
   (H)   Amusement redemption machines must be situated within the licensed
premises as to be in full and open public view, which entails being visible to
all patrons of the establishment.
   (I)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted inside the
building, structure, facility or space housing the amusement redemption machine
game room.
   (J)   A sign stating that no one under the age of 18 is allowed inside the
amusement redemption machine game room building shall be posted in plain sight
immediately inside the entrance stating that:
“No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted inside the building,
structure, facility or space housing the amusement redemption machine game
room.”
   (K)   An amusement redemption machine game room operator must be a person
who is at least 18 years of age.
   (L)   The total number of amusement redemption machines allowed in one
amusement redemption machine game room establishment shall be limited to the
maximum number of 20 amusement redemption machine games. Any back-up or
replacement amusement redemption machine games shall be secured in a locked
storage area or closet to which the public is not allowed to enter and such
machines shall not be connected to electricity or otherwise operational. The
occupation tax on such back-up or replacement amusement redemption machine
games shall be paid annually regardless of whether such machines are used by
the game room’s patrons.
   (M)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed or have the effect to
license, permit, authorize or legalize any machine, device, tablel or gaming
machine, the keeping, exhibition, operation, display or maintenance of which is
illegal or in violation of any ordinance of the city, any section of the penal
code of this state, or the constitution of this state.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)  Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.08  APPLICATION FOR AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE GAME ROOM LICENSE.
   (A)   An applicant for a license under the provisions of this chapter shal
file with the City Secretary a written application on a form provided for that
purpose by the City of Canton which shall be signed by the applicant, who Shall
be the owner of the amusement redemption machine game room sought to be
licensed. A separate application must be filed for each location sought to be
licensed. The following information is required in the application:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number, and driver’s license number of the
applicant if the applicant is a natural person;
      (2)   Name, address, telephone number and driver’s license number of all
persons who own 25% or more interest in the amusement redemption machine game
room;
      (3)   Name, address, telephone number and driver’s license number of all
corporate officers, if any, of the such business;
      (4)   Name, address, telephone number of the business;
      (5)   If incorporated, the name of the business registered with the Texas
Secretary of State;
      (6)   If a partnership, the name, address, telephone number and driver’s
license of each of the general and limited partners;
      (7)   The trade name by which the applicant does business and a true and
correct copy of the registration of the applicant’s assumed name filed in the
office of the Van Zandt County Clerk, bearing the file mark or stamp that
evidences its filing in that office;
      (8)   The street address of the premises;
      (9)   If applicant is not the owner of the premises, the applicant shall
furnish the name, address, and telephone number of the property owner;
      (10)   Name, address, and telephone number of the operator of the
premises to be permitted;
      (11)   Number of amusement redemption machines in the premises to be
permitted and the serial number of each amusement redemption machine;
      (12)   Whether a previous license of the applicant or, if applicable, a
corporate officer of the applicant, has been revoked within two years of filing
of the application;
      (13)   The previous occupation(s) of the applicant and, if applicable,
all corporate officers and partners of the applicant within the preceding five
years;
      (14)   A notarized statement, under oath, that:
         (a)   All the facts contained in the application are true and correct;
         (b)   The amusement redemption machines are not and will not be used
as gambling devices;
         (c)   The location and operation of the amusement redemption machine
game room will not violate any applicable deed restrictions;
         (d)   Amusement redemption machine game room will be operated in
accordance with all laws;
      (15)   Name, address, and telephone number of an emergency contact person
who can be reached after hours;
      (16)   A floor plan of the amusement redemption machine game room
interior depicting the layout of the amusement redemption machine game room
interior specifically including, but not limited to, the location of all
amusement redemption machines, coin-operated machines or devices, the manager’s
station(s), restroom facilities, kitchen and bar facilities, if any, and ail
areas to which patrons will not be permitted; and
      (17)   Any other plans that may be required by the city’s code of
ordinances.
   (B)   Any failure to provide the documents required by this section shall be
grounds for denial of the application to which it applies.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.09  RENEWAL OF AMUSEMENT REDEMPTION MACHINE GAME ROOM LICENSE.
   (A)   A license may be renewed for the following calendar year beginning
October 1 of each year by filing a completed application for each license and
paying the applicable fee set forth in this chapter. A renewal application
shall be subject to the same requirements in this section for a license
application.
   (B)   Upon the expiration of a licensey the licensee shall be required to
obtain a renewal of the expired license if the licensee wishes to continue
operating an amusement redemption machine game room. Failure to obtain the
renewal within 30 days after expiration will require such person to pay an
additional late fee jn an amount equal to 20% of the fee actually due or 20% of
the previous year’s fee, whichever amount is greater, in order to obtain
reinstatement of his or her license. Nothing herein authorizes the licensee to
operate after the expiration of a license and before a renewal is effective.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.10  GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE; APPLICANTS OR LICENSEES INDEBTED TO
CITY.
   (A)   The City of Canton shall refuse to approve issuance or renewal of a
permit for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   Any failure to provide the information required by this chapter;
      (2)   A determination by the City of Canton that inaccurate, erroneous or
incomplete information has been submitted;
      (3)   A false statement as to a material matter made in an application
for a license;
      (4)   Revocation of a license, pursuant to this chapter, of the applicant
or a co-owner or a corporate officer of the applicant within two years
preceding the filing of the application;
      (5)   Refusal or failure to pay the occupation tax on any amusement
redemption machine;
      (6)   Refusal or failure to pay the correct license fee amount;
      (7)   The applicant or a co-owner for such license has, within the past
three years, been convicted of any violation of this chapter; and/or
      (8)   The appticant or a co-owner for such license has, within the past
ten years, been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   The City of Canton shall not issue or renew a license under this
chapter and shall suspend or cancel a license if it be determined that the
applicant or licensee is indebted to the city for any fee, costs, penalties, or
delinquent taxes.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.11  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE FOR VIOLATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Power and authority. If any individual, company, corporation or
association who owns, operates, exhibits, or displays any amusement redemption
machine(s) in an amusement redemption machine game room in this city shall
violate any provision of this chapter, the City of Canton shall have the power
and authority to suspend or revoke the license(s) issued hereunder to any of
the foregoing by giving written notice, stating the reason justifying such
suspension or revocation, and the same shall be suspended or revoked ten days
from date of such notice.
   (B)   Suspension. The City Manager or his or her designee shall suspend a
license for a period not to exceed 30 days if he determines that a licensee or
an employee of a licensee has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this
chapter;
      (2)   Refused to allow or interfered with an inspection of the amusement
redemption machine game room premises; or
      (3)   Demonstrated an inability to operate or manage an amusement
redemption machine game Room in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus
necessitating action by law enforcement officers.
   (C)   Revocation for continuing violations. The City Manager or his or her
designee shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension occurs and the license
has been previously suspended within the preceding twelve months.
   (D)   Automatic revocation. The City Manager or his or her designee shall
revoke a license if he determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee of a licensee knowingly allowed the
possession, or sale of a controlled substance on the premises; or
      (3)   A licensee or an employee of a licensee knowingly operated the
amusement redemption machine game room during a period of time when the
licensee’s permit was suspended.
   (D)   Effect of revocation. No license shall be issued within a period of
one year to anyone whose license has been revoked, except at the discretion of
the City Council. If the license of an individual, companyq corporation, or
association owning, operating, or displaying amusement redemption machines in
this city is cancelled, such individual, company, corporation or association
shall not operate, display or permit to be operated or displayed such amusement
redemption machines in any amusement redemption machine game room until a new
license is granted.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.12  APPEAL FROM DENIAL SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   If the City of Canton refuses to approve the issuance of a license or the
renewal of a license to an applicant, or suspends or revokes a license issued
under this chapter, this action is final unless the applicant or licensee,
within ten days after the receipt of written notice of the action, files a
written appeal with the judge of the municipal court, who shall, within ten
days after the appeal is filed, consider all the evidence in support of or
against the action appealed, and render a decision, either sustaining or
reversing the action. If the judge of the municipal court sustains the action
of the City of Canton, the applicant or licensee may, within ten days of that
decision, file a written appeal with the City Secretary to the City Council
setting forth specific grounds for the appeal. Similarly, if the judge of the
municipal court overturns the action of the City Manager or his designee, the
City Manager may, within ten days of that decision, file a written appeal with
the City Secretary to the City Council setting forth specific grounds for the
appeal. The City Council shall, within 30 days, grant a hearing to consider the
action. The City Council has authority to sustain, reverse, or modify the
action appealed. The decision of the City Council is final.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.13  DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   A license issued under this chapter for an amusement redemption machine game
room shall be displayed at or near the entrance of the business premises, and
such display shall be permanent and conspicuous.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)  Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.14  REPLACEMENT LICENSE.
   A replacement license may be issued for one lost, destroyed, or mutilated,
upon application on a form provided by the City of Canton. A replacement
license shall have the word “REPLACEMENT” stamped across its face and shall
bear the same number as the one it replaces.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.15  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The premises in which such amusement redemption machines are located
shall conform to all building codes and fire prevention codes of the city and
the Fire Marshal of the city and his or her assistants and the Chief Building
Official may enter into the premises where such amusement redemption machines
are located at any time during normal business hours for the purposes of
inspecting said premises for fire hazards.
   (B)   All law enforcement personnel of the city shall have the right to
enter into said premises at any time during normal business hours for the
purpose of enforcement of the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   The city shall have the authority to seal any coin-operated machine
located in any amusement redemption machine game room for which the occupation
tax has not been paid. A fee in the amount identified in §
118.99 will be charged for the release of any machine sealed for non-payment of
said occupation tax.
   (D)   The city shall have the authority to seal any coin-operated machine
located in any amusement redemption machine game room for which a license fee
has not been paid. A fee in the amount identified in §
118.99 will be charged for the release of any machine sealed for non-payment of
said license fee.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.16  RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE.
   A licensee hereunder shall not permit any of the following activities within
the licensed premises:
   (A)   The sale, purchase, possession or consumption of any alcoholic
beverages as the same is defined by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code;
   (B)   The operation of any amusement redemption machine by a person younger
than 18 years of age;
   (C)   Gambling by any person;
   (D)   The possession of gambling materials; and
   (E)   Unlawful or criminal activity of any kind.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)  Penalty, see §
118.99
§ 118.17  PARKING FACILITIES.
   Any person who desires a license for the operation of two or more amusement
redemption machines in one specific location shall be required to provide
sufficient off-street parking to accommodate the vehicles of the patrons as
provided herein. Such parking area shall be maintained in a safe, clean manner
and shall not interfere with safe and expeditious movement of other vehicular
or pedestrian traffic. Depending on the location of licensed premises, bicycle
racks may be required.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.18  VIOLATIONS OF EXISTING LAWS NOT AUTHORIZED.
   Nothing herein shall be construed or have the effect to license, permit,
authorize or legalize any machine, device, table, or gaming machine, the
keeping, exhibition, operation, display or maintenance of which is illegal or
in violation of any ordinance of the city, any section of the penal code of
this state, or the constitution of this state.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.19  MASTER FEE SCHEDULE, OCCUPATION TAX, ANNUAL INSPECTION AND LICENSE
FEE.
 
Service             Fee
Amusement
redemption machine  25% of state occupation tax to be paid annually =  $15 per
occupation tax (per machine
machine)
Release of seal on
any machine for
which occupation    $5 plus payment of occupation tax
tax was not
properly paid
Amusement
redemption machine  $100 per machine located in the game room
game room license
Release of seal on
any machine for
which game room     $50 plus payment of game room license fee
license fee was not
properly paid
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
§ 118.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in the
municipal court of the City of Canton, Texas, shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed the sum of $500 for each offense; and each and every day such
violation shall continue shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2018-29, passed 11-20-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   LOITERING AND LITTERING
      
131.   WEAPONS
      
132.   MINORS; CURFEW
      
133.   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
CHAPTER 130:  LOITERING AND LITTERING
Section
   
130.01   Congregating, loitering and littering on or about business premises;
disturbances and alcoholic beverage consumption unlawful
§ 130.01  CONGREGATING, LOITERING AND LITTERING ON OR ABOUT BUSINESS PREMISES;
DISTURBANCES AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION UNLAWFUL.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person or groups of persons to consume any alcoholic beverage
upon any public parking lot with the City of Canton after the owners or
managers of the premises shall post a sign or notice stating the premises are
protected by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in their possession any
alcoholic beverage for the purpose of immediate consumption. It shall be prima
facie evidence of that intent when the possession of beer is in what is
commonly called a COOLER, whether or not the containers are opened, and any
other container of alcoholic beverages which are opened, or which are in a
cooler. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES as used in this chapter are intended to include but
not limited to, beer, wine, whisky, gin, vodka or any mixture thereof, with any
other substance, or distillates, or derivatives of the same, and/or any other
substance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any litter,
paper, bottles, cans or any other item ordinarily known as trash, upon any
parking lot or any business within the City of Canton.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or groups of persons to create any
loud or unnecessary noise upon business parking lots whereby the residents of
nearby premises are unduly disturbed at any time. DISTURBANCES shall be
intended to include, but not be limited to, loud talking, cursing, accelerating
a motor vehicle in such a manner as to cause the wheels to spin loudly, loud
muffler, fighting or any other deed, word or action done in such a manner as to
cause a person of normal sensibilities to become upset, angered or unduly
disturbed.
   (E)   (1)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity.  Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object.  Unless
flight by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police
officer shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford
the person an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be
warranted, by requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to
explain his or her presence or conduct.  No person shall be convicted of an
offense under this section if the police officer did not comply with the
preceding sentence, or if it appears at trial that the explanation given by the
person was true and, if it had been believed by the police officer at the time,
would have dispelled the alarm.  Any police officer may arrest any person
suspected of being a loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably
appears that the delay in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant
would result in the suspect’s escape.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably, the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon.  It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACEhas the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:  an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
   (F)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not less that $25 nor more than
$200, and each breach of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (G)   This chapter shall become effective on the date following its
publication in the local newspaper in accordance with the state law.
   (H)   This chapter shall become effective by resolution upon request in
writing from the owners and/or managers of business establishments or shopping
centers or areas, and the posting of proper signs upon their premises stating
that the premises are protected by city ordinance and giving the ordinance
number.
   (I)   This chapter shall be effective only upon premises whose owners and/or
managers request the same, but the failure to have full participation of all
merchants shall not invalidate the provisions of this chapter against those who
wish the same to be enforced upon their premises.
   (J)   Removal of the sign or signs from the premises by unauthorized persons
shall not defeat the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-04, passed 6-4-1996)
CHAPTER 131:  WEAPONS
Section
   
131.01   Firearms
§ 131.01  FIREARMS.
   (A)   Definition.
      FIREARM.  A pistol, revolver, rifle, bow and arrow, shotgun, short-barrel
firearm, gas gun or gas pistol, BB gun or BB pistol, pellet gun or pellet
pistol, zip gun, air gun, or any other device designed, made or adapted to
expel a projectile through a barrel by using the energy generated by an
explosion or burning substance or any device readily convertible to that use.
   (B)   Unlawful activity.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly:
         (a)   Shoot, discharge or flourish any firearm, within the City of
Canton except in those areas open to the public for lawful hunting or upon
established shooting ranges.
         (b)   Have in his or her possession or under his or her control, or
use or discharge, a firearm while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
a controlled substance.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any officer of the United States,
the state, the county or the municipality who is authorized to use firearms in
the enforcement of any law or ordinance and who is actually engaged in such
enforcement.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to a firearm utilizing blank
cartridges or other means of non-projectile discharge as part of a military
funeral, reception for a visiting head of state or dignitary, or other
athletic, theatrical, ceremonial or commemorative events, if performed safely
and directed away from persons, animals, equipment or structures so as to
prevent personal injury or property damage.
   (C)   Violations and penalties.  Violation of this section shall be a Class
C Misdemeanor and, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine of not more than
$500 for each offense.  In addition, the firearm shall be forfeited to the City
of Canton.  If the conviction under division (B)(1) and (B)(2) is for the
discharge of a firearm from a vehicle, the court may order forfeiture of the
defendant’s interest in the vehicle to the municipality in addition to any
other penalties.
   (D)   Effective date.  The City Manager of the City of Canton is hereby
authorized and directed to cause a true and correct copy of the caption,
penalties and effective date of this section to be published in a newspaper
having general circulation in the City of Canton, Texas, prior to its effective
date.  Following the publication, this ordinance shall be in full force and
effect.
(Ord. 2006-23, passed 9-19-2006; Ord. 2008-13, passed 7-15-2008)
CHAPTER 132:  MINORS; CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Curfew hours for minors
   
132.02   Review
   
132.03   Effective date
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01  CURFEW HOURS FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS.
         (a)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      EMERGENCY.  An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action.  The term includes, but is not limited
to, a fire, a natural disaster, or automobile accident, or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT.  Any privately-owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited to any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN.
         (a)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor, or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR.  Any person under 17 years of age.
      OPERATOR.  Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment.  The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PARENT.  A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  Any place to which the public or a substantial group of
the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      REMAIN.
         (a)   Linger or stay; or
         (b)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY.  Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Offenses.
      (1)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in
any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he or she knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of
the establishment during curfew hours.
(C)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B) that the minor
was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the City of Canton, a civic
organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor, or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an
official school, religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults
and sponsored by the City of Canton, a civic organization, or another similar
entity that takes responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with Tex. Family Code, Chapter 31.
      (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (B)(3) above that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the police
department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement.  Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
the public place.  The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
division (C) above is present.
(Ord. 2008-27, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 132.02  REVIEW.
   Within six months after the initial enforcement of this ordinance, the City
Manager shall review this chapter and report and make recommendations to the
City Council concerning the effectiveness of and the continuing need for the
ordinance.  The City Manager’s report shall specifically include the following
information:
   (A)   The practicality of enforcing the chapter and any problems with
enforcement identified by the police department;
   (B)   The impact of the chapter on crime statistics;
   (C)   The number of persons successfully prosecuted for a violation of the
chapter; and
   (D)   The city’s net cost of enforcing the chapter.
(Ord. 2008-27, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 132.03  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective immediately upon its passage and
publication as approved by law.
(Ord. 2008-27, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued, or permitted.  Each offense, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (B)   When required by Tex. Family Code, § 51.08, as amended, the municipal
court shall waive original jurisdiction over a minor who violates division (B)
(1) above and shall refer the minor to juvenile court.
(Ord. 2008-27, passed 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 133: SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
133.01   Synthetic cannabinoids prohibited
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01  SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to possess,
use, consume, smoke, transfer, buy, display, sell, attempt to sell, distribute,
or deliver any one or more of the following substances in the City of Canton,
Texas:
      (1)   Salvia divinorum or Salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      (2)   Synthetic cannabinoids, synthetic cannabinoid mimicking compounds,
substances containing the HU-210, HU-211, JWH-018, JWH-073, JWH-081, or CP47,
497 compounds, or substances having cannabinoid mimicking effects used to
adulterate plant or other materials;
      (3)   Products containing any of the above substances and marketed as "K-
2", "K-2 Summit", "K-2 Sex", "Genie", "Dascents", "Zohai", "Sage", "Spice", "KO
Knockout 2", "Spice Gold", "Spice Diamond", "Spice Silver", "Yucatan Fire",
"Solar Flare", "Pep Spice", "Fire 'n Ice", "Diablo", "Spicy Green", "Skunk",
"Sence" and "Salvia Divinorum", or products by any other name containing a
synthetic cannabinoic, synthetic cannabinoid mimicking compound or substance
containing the HU-210 compound; or
      (4)   Any substance similar to those described, which when inhaled or
otherwise ingested produces intoxication, stupefaction, giddiness, paralysis,
irrational behavior, or in any manner, changes, distorts or disturbs the
auditory, visual or mental process and the product or substance has no other
apparent legitimate purpose for consumption.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowingly, to breathe, inhale,
drink, or otherwise ingest any compound, liquid or chemical listed within this
chapter or a similar substance, for the purpose of inducing a condition of
intoxication, stupefaction, giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior, or in
any manner, changing, distorting or disturbing the auditory, visual, or mental
process.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to possess,
use, transfer, buy, display, sell, attempt to sell, distribute, or deliver
within the city any paraphernalia, equipment or utensils used for ingesting or
inhaling any compound, liquid or chemical listed in this chapter or similar
substance.
   (D)   It shall be a defense to a violation of this chapter that any act
described in this chapter is under and pursuant to the direction or
prescription of a licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct or
prescribe such act.
(Ord. 2010-22, passed 9-21-2010)
§ 133.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction in the
Municipal Court of the City of Canton, Texas, shall be punished by a fine not
to exceed the sum of $2,000 for each offense, and each and every day any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2010-22, passed 9-21-2010)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDINGS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SIGNS REGULATIONS
      
154.   USE OF CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND PUBLIC EASEMENTS
      
155.   ZONING ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
150.01   Drilling; oil, gas or minerals
Codes Adopted
   
150.15   Comprehensive plan adopted
   
150.16   International and standard codes adopted
   
150.17   Subdivision Ordinance adopted
   
150.18   Airport Zoning Ordinance adopted
   
150.19   Reserved
   
150.20   Reserved
   
150.21   Minimum exterior standards adopted
   
150.22   National Incident Management System (NIMS)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 150.01  DRILLING; OIL, GAS OR MINERALS.
    From and after the date of the passage of this section, there shall be no
drilling or exploration for oil, gas or minerals upon any of the premises
embodied within the limits of the City of Canton, Van Zandt County, Texas.
(Ord. 86-9, passed 9-23-1986)
CODES ADOPTED
§ 150.15  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED.
   The comprehensive plan is adopted and incorporated as part of this code of
ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
§ 150.16  INTERNATIONAL AND STANDARD CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)    There is hereby adopted by the City of Canton for the purpose of
establishing rules and regulations for the construction, alteration and removal
of buildings, electrical wiring and plumbing, the following codes by reference
as though they were copied herein fully:
      (1)   International Building Code; 2015 Edition;
      (2)   International Fire Code; 2015 Edition;
      (3)   International Fuel Gas Code; 2015 Edition;
      (4)   International Property Maintenance Code; 2015 Edition;
      (5)   International Plumbing Code; 2015 Edition;
      (6)   International Private Sewage Disposal Code; 2015 Edition;
      (7)   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code; 2015 ISPSC (federal law);
      (8)   National Electric Code; 2017 Edition;
      (9)   International Residential Code; 2015 Edition;
      (10)   International Mechanical Code; 2015 Edition; and
      (11)   International Energy Conservation Code; 2015 Edition (required by
state).
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this section shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $2,000,
together with the costs of the prosecution. Each day during which a violation
continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 2006-01, passed 1-17-2006; Ord. 2015-10, passed 6-16-2015; Ord. 2016-08,
passed 4-19-2016; Ord. 2018-09, passed 3-20-2018)
§ 150.17  SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The Subdivision Ordinance is adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
§ 150.18  AIRPORT ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED.
   The Airport Zoning Ordinance is adopted and incorporated as part of this
code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
§ 150.19  RESERVED.
§ 150.20  RESERVED.
§ 150.21  MINIMUM EXTERIOR STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   The Minimum Exterior Standards Code is adopted and incorporated as part of
this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
§ 150.22  NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS).
   The National Incident Management System (NIMS) is adopted and incorporated
as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
CHAPTER 151: BUILDINGS*
Section
Substandard Buildings
   
151.01   Adoption of substandard building ordinance pursuant to Chapter 214,
Texas Local Government Code
   
151.02   Public hearing to be conducted by City Council
   
151.03   Alterations, additions, and repairs
   
151.04   Declaration of public nuisance
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Specific nuisances
   
151.07   Minimum standards
   
151.08   Notice to property owners and others of public hearing
   
151.09   Date of public hearing
   
151.10   Filing of notice of public hearing in public records
   
151.11   Effect of filing of notice in public records
   
151.12   Conduct of public hearing
   
151.13   Orders and notice after public hearing
   
151.14   Repair, vacation or demolition
   
151.15   Designation of enforcement officer
   
151.16   Enforcement authority and liability
   
151.17   Remedies
   
151.18   Twenty-four hour abatement under certain circumstances
   
151.19   Contracting for abatement
   
151.19A   Recovery of costs
   
151.19B   Judicial review
   
151.19C   Municipal court proceedings not affected
Housing Code
   
151.20   Title and scope
   
151.21   Powers and duties of Building Inspector
   
151.22   Hardships
   
151.23   Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
151.24   General provisions
   
151.25   Definitions
   
151.26   Facilities required
   
151.27   Minimum requirements for electricity
   
151.28   General requirements for the exterior and interior of structures
   
151.29   Minimum dwelling space requirement
   
151.30   Designation of unfit dwellings and legal procedure
Building Code
   
151.45   Short title and statutory authority
   
151.46   Findings of fact; purpose
   
151.47   Definitions
   
151.48   Administration
   
151.49   Subdivisions
   
151.50   Water and sanitary sewer design
   
151.51   Alteration or relocation of a watercourse
   
151.52   Abrogation and greater resolution
   
151.53   Waiver and disclaimer
   
151.54   Builder/contractor; legal address
Minimum Exterior Standards
   
151.65   Exceptions
   
151.66   Building façade requirements
   
151.67   Refuse storage container screening requirements
   
151.68   Mechanical screening requirements
   
151.69   Screening walls or visual barriers
   
151.70   General fence and wall regulations
   
151.71   General provisions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
§ 151.01  ADOPTION OF SUBSTANDARD BUILDING ORDINANCE PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 214,
TEXAS LOCAL GOVERNMENT CODE.
   The city hereby adopts this subchapter pursuant to Chapter 214 of the Texas
Local Government Code, as amended, and the following minimum standards for the
continued use and occupancy of all buildings regardless of the date of their
construction; (ii) the following provisions for giving proper notice to the
owner of a building; and (iii) the following provisions for a public hearing to
determine compliance of buildings. In the event that any provision of this
chapter conflicts with said Chapter 214, or in the event that any provision of
said Chapter 214, has been omitted from this chapter, the city shall be
entitled to pursue its remedies in conformity with said state law, as hereafter
amended.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.02  PUBLIC HEARING TO BE CONDUCTED BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Public hearing. Any public hearing conducted under Chapter 214, of the
Texas Local Government Code, or this chapter, shall be conducted by the City
Council, which, when performing review of substandard building matters, will be
referred to as the “Council Hearing Panel”. At its option, or if no quorum can
be assembled because of recusals, the Council Hearing Panel may refer the
matter to be heard by the City municipal court pursuant to § 214.001 (p), Texas
Local Government Code.
   (B)   Duties of code enforcement personnel. One or more of the Code
Enforcement Officer, Fire Marshal, and the Building Inspector of the city shall
inspect all buildings reported to be or believed to be substandard and present
an oral report of such inspection, together with such documents as he or they
may deem necessary, to the Council Hearing Panel at the public hearing.
   (C)   Officers of the Council Hearing Panel. At its first meeting of each
year, the Council Hearing Panel shall select from its members a chairperson,
vicechairperson and a secretary of the Hearing Panel.
   (D)   Rules and procedures.
      (1)   Four members of the Council Hearing Panel shall be required to
constitute a quorum and the concurring vote of four members of the Council
Hearing Panel is necessary to take any action under this chapter.
      (2)   A Council Hearing Panel member having a personal or financial
interest in any matter before the Council Hearing Panel shall recuse himself or
herself from the discussion and the vote on that matter.
      (3)   The person acting as secretary of the Council Hearing Panel shall
make a record of all proceedings of the Council Hearing Panel, which shall set
forth the particulars of the matter before the Council Hearing Panel, the
decision rendered by the Council Hearing Panel, the reason for the said
decision and the vote of each member participating therein.
      (4)   The City Secretary or chairperson may call meetings of the Council
Hearing Panel when necessary to rule on any case brought before it regarding
substandard buildings.
      (5)   Any materials to be presented at the Council Hearing Panel may be
submitted to the City Secretary.
      (6)   The Council Hearing Panel shall establish such other rules and
procedures it deems necessary for the election of officers and the conduct of
its business.
   (E)   Duties. The Council Hearing Panel (or municipal court, when the matter
has been referred) shall hear any case dealing with a substandard building and
make a ruling as to whether such building complies with the standards set forth
in this ordinance, and, should the building be found to be in violation of the
standards, whether the building should be vacated, secured, repaired, removed,
or demolished, and whether the occupants should be relocated.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
*State Law Reference - Authority of municipality to regulate unsafe and
substandard structures, V.T.C.A., Local Government Code, Chapter 214.
§ 151.03  ALTERATIONS, ADDITIONS, AND REPAIRS.
   All buildings that are required to be repaired under provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to all applicable sections of the International
Building Code, and International Property Maintenance Code as adopted by the
city.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.04  DECLARATION OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any building, in or on which there exists a condition not in compliance with
this chapter shall be deemed and is hereby declared to be (I) a public
nuisance, (ii) a violation of this chapter, and (iii) subject to the penalty
clauses and remedies available to the city hereunder and under the common law
or equity jurisprudence of the State of Texas.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.05  DEFINITIONS.
   Terms, words, phrases and their derivatives used, but not specifically
defined in this Chapter, shall have the meanings defined in Chapters 54 and 214
of the Texas Local Government Code, and the International Building Code and
International Properly Maintenance Code, as adopted by the city. Words used in
the singular include the plural and the plural the singular. Words used in the
masculine gender include the feminine and the feminine the masculine. For
purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different meaning is
intended:
   BUILDING.  Any real property, structure, premises or any portion thereof,
including a vacant lot.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  The Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Marshal or Building
Inspector, or their designated representatives, charged by the city with any
enforcement and administration of this chapter.
   INSPECTION.  The examination of a building by the Enforcement Officer or his
authorized representative for the purpose of evaluating its condition as
provided for in this chapter.
   MANIFESTLY UNSAFE.  A building that is a public nuisance, as that term is
defined in this section, or unsafe for human occupation, whether temporary or
permanent, or a hazard to the public health, safety and welfare.
   OCCUPANT.  Any person who occupies a building and who is not the owner.
   OWNER.  Any person having a legal or equitable interest in a building as
shown on the most recent tax roll.
   PERSON.  An individual, corporation, organization, government, business
trust, partnership, association or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE.
      (1)   The physical condition or use of any building regarded as a public
nuisance at common law or as defined elsewhere in the city’s code of
ordinances;
      (2)   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any building or its
appurtenances considered an attractive nuisance to children, including, but not
limited to, abandoned wells, shafts, basements, excavations and unsafe fences
or structures;
      (3)   Any building that is manifestly capable of being a fire hazard, or
is manifestly unsafe or unsecure as to endanger life, limb or property;
      (4)   Any building from which the plumbing, heating and/or facilities
required by the city’s code of ordinances have been removed, or from which
utilities have been disconnected, destroyed, removed, or rendered ineffective,
or the required precautions against unauthorized use or entry have not been
provided;
      (5)   Any building that is in a state of dilapidation, deterioration or
decay, faulty construction, overcrowded, open, vacant or abandoned, damaged by
fire to the extent as not to provide shelter, in danger of collapse or failure
and dangerous to anyone on or near the building;
      (6)   Any physical condition, use or occupancy of any building or its
appurtenances that is dangerous to the physical health or safety of an occupant
or other person; or
      (7)   Because of violations of §
151.07 of this chapter, the state of disrepair is such that it could reasonably
cause injury, damage, or harm to a considerable portion of the community in the
use and enjoyment of property, materially interfering with the proper use or
comfort and enjoyment of surrounding property, taking into consideration the
nature and use of the properties in the area and the character of the community
in which they are situated, which condition would be substantially offensive
and annoying to persons of ordinary sensibilities living in the community.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.06  SPECIFIC NUISANCES.
   Without limiting the power of the city to hereafter declare as public
nuisances any other act, condition or thing, by ordinance, the following
specific acts, conditions and things are, each and all of them, hereby declared
to be and constitute public nuisances:
   (A)   Any building that is:
      (1)   Dilapidated, substandard, or unfit for human habitation and a
hazard to the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (2)   Regardless of its structural condition, unoccupied by its owners,
lessees, or other invitees and is unsecured from unauthorized entry to the
extent that it could be entered or used by vagrants or other uninvited persons
as a place of harborage or could be entered or used by children; or
      (3)   Boarded up, fenced or otherwise secured in any manner if:
         (a)   The building constitutes a danger to the public even though
secured from entry; or
         (b)   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building by vagrants or other uninvited
persons as a place of harborage or by children.
   (B)   Any building that has any or all of the conditions or defects
hereinafter described shall be deemed to be a dangerous building, provided that
such conditions or defects exist to the extent that the life, health, property
or safety of the public or its occupants is endangered:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
exit is not of sufficient width or size or is not arranged so as to provide
safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (2)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic.
      (3)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed by the International Building Code for new buildings
of similar structure, purpose or location.
      (4)   Whenever any portion of a building has been damaged by fire,
earthquake, wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the
structural strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before
such a catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements set forth by the
International Building Code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location.
      (5)   Whenever any portion of a building, or member or appurtenance
thereof, is likely to fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse
and thereby injure persons or damage property.
      (6)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof, is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified in the
International Building Code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or
location without exceeding the working stresses permitted by the International
Building Code for such buildings.
      (7)   Whenever any portion of a building has wracked, warped, buckled or
settled to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have
materially less resistance to wind or earthquakes than is required in the case
of similar new construction.
      (8)   Whenever the building, or any portion thereof, is manifestly unsafe
because of:
         (a)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
         (b)   Faulty construction;
         (c)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the
ground necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
         (d)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
         (e)   Any other cause, or is likely to partially or completely
collapse.
      (9)   Whenever, for any reason, the building, or any portion thereof, is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used.
      (10)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one third of the base.
      (11)   Whenever the building, exclusive of the foundation, shows 33% or
more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50% or
more damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or
outside walls or coverings.
      (12)   Whenever the building has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to:
         (a)   Become an attractive nuisance to children;
         (b)   Become a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons; or
         (c)   Enable persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing
unlawful or immoral acts.
      (13)   Whenever any building has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to such building provided by the building regulations of the city, as specified
in the International Building Code or International Property Maintenance Code,
as adopted by the city, or of any law of this state or ordinance of the city
relating to the condition, location or structure of buildings.
      (14)   Whenever any building, whether or not erected in accordance with
all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-supporting part, member or
portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or portion less than
66% of the:
         (a)   Strength;
         (b)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
         (c)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics
         required by law in the case of a newly constructed building of like
area, height and occupancy in the same location.
      (15)   Whenever a building, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Enforcement Officer to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that it is likely
to cause sickness or disease.
      (16)   Whenever any building, because of obsolescence, dilapidated
condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient fire-
resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections or heating
apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Fire Marshal to be a fire
hazard.
      (17)   Whenever any building is in such a condition as to constitute a
public nuisance known to the common law or in equity jurisprudence.
      (18)   Whenever any portion of a building remains on a site after the
demolition or destruction of the building or whenever any building is abandoned
for a period in excess of six months so as to make such building or portion
thereof an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
      (19)   Whenever water heating facilities are not properly installed or
maintained in a safe and good working condition and/or such water heating
facilities are not capable of heating water to such a temperature as to permit
an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required kitchen sink,
lavatory basin, bathtub or shower at a temperature of not less than 120 degrees
Fahrenheit. Such water heating facilities shall be capable of meeting the
requirements of this subsection when the dwelling or dwelling unit heating
facilities required under the provisions of this subsection are not in
operation.
      (20)   Whenever any minimum standards provided by the International
Building Code, the International Properly Maintenance Code, the International
Residential Code, the International Fire Code, the International Mechanical
Code, the International Plumbing Code, the International Fuel Gas Code or
National Electrical Code, as amended, and as adopted by the city, are not met
for any building.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.07  MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The minimum standards for the continued use and occupancy of all buildings,
regardless of the date of construction thereof, shall be those established by
the International Property Maintenance Code, which standards are hereby
adopted, as well as those standards established by the International Building
Code as heretofore previously adopted or hereafter adopted or amended by the
city, and those standards established by this chapter. If a building fails to
meet the minimum standards set forth herein, or if a building is a public
nuisance as defined herein, the building shall be in violation of the minimum
standards, and shall be subject to the order of the Council Hearing Panel.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.08  NOTICE TO PROPERTY OWNERS AND OTHERS OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   If an Enforcement Officer determines that a building condition
requires the vacation, securing, repair, or removal of a building, the abating
of a nuisance condition, or the relocation of the occupants of the building,
the Enforcement Officer shall:
      (1)   Give notice of the nuisance to the owner of the building by
personal service or by certified mail (with a duplicate copy addressed to such
owner or occupant as shown in the most recent tax roll or utility records of
the city and deposited in the U. S. Mail, postage paid). A copy will also be
provided or sent to at least one known occupant, (if the building is occupied);
      (2)   Provide detail in such notice of the standard(s) violated under
this chapter and the necessary action to abate the nuisance (a copy of an
Enforcement Officer’s report is sufficient for this purpose);
      (3)   Advise such owner or occupant of the date and time of the public
hearing at which a determination will be made by the Council Hearing Panel as
to whether the nuisance exists and whether the building complies with the
standards of this chapter;
      (4)   Include a statement in such notice that the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee will be required to submit at the hearing proof of the scope of any
work that may be required to comply with this ordinance and the time it will
take to reasonably perform the work;
      (5)   Provide a copy of such notice of nuisance, details thereof, the
required action necessary to abate the nuisance, and the date and time of the
hearing to any mortgagee or lienholder of record after a diligent effort to
discover such mortgagee or lienholder.
   (B)   If the city mails a notice in accordance with this section to a
property owner, occupant, lienholder, mortgagee or registered agent and the
United States Postal Service returns the notice as “refused” or “unclaimed,”
the validity of the notice is not affected, and the notice is considered
delivered.
   (C)   The city satisfies the requirements of this chapter to make a diligent
effort, to use its best efforts, or to make a reasonable effort to determine
the identity and address of an owner, an occupant, a lienholder, or a mortgagee
if the city searches the following records:
      (1)   County real property records of Van Zandt County;
      (2)   Appraisal district records of Van Zandt County;
      (3)   Records of the Secretary of State;
      (4)   Assumed name records of Van Zandt County;
      (5)   Tax records of the city; and
      (6)   Utility records of the city.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.09  DATE OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   The date of the public hearing before the Council Hearing Panel shall not be
less than 30 days from the earlier of the date of (i) personal service or (ii)
deposit of the notice in the U.S. Mail, except when an immediate threat to
public health and safety has been declared by an Enforcement Officer pursuant
to §
151.18.
§ 151.10  FILING OF NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING IN PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Except where an immediate threat to public health and safety has been
declared pursuant to §
151.18, the city shall file a notice of the hearing in the Official Public
Records of Real Property in Van Zandt County at least ten days before the date
of the hearing. The notice must contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the owner of the affected property, if that
information can be determined from a reasonable search of the instruments on
file with the County Clerk;
   (B)   A legal description of the affected property; and
   (C)   A description of the hearing.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.11  EFFECT OF FILING OF NOTICE IN PUBLIC RECORDS.
   The filing of the notice under §
151.10 of this chapter is binding on subsequent grantees, lienholders, or other
transferees of any interest in the building who acquire such interest after the
filing of the notice, and constitutes notice of the hearing on any subsequent
recipient of any interest in the building who acquires such interest after the
filing of the notice.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.12  CONDUCT OF PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Council Hearing Panel shall conduct a public hearing to determine
whether a building complies with the standards set out in this chapter. At the
hearing, if a building is held to violate the minimum standards herein, the
owner, lienholder or mortgagee shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate
the scope of any work that may be required to comply with this chapter and the
time it will take to reasonably perform the work.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.13  ORDERS AND NOTICE AFTER PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   If, after conducting a public hearing, the Council Hearing Panel finds
that a building is in violation of the standards set out in this chapter, the
Council Hearing Panel shall require the owner, lienholder or mortgagee of the
building to within 30 days:
      (1)   Secure the building from unauthorized entry; or
      (2)   Repair, remove or demolish the building unless the owner, mortgagee
or lienholder establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
performed within 30 days. If the Council Hearing Panel allows the owner,
lienholder or mortgagee more than 30 days to repair, remove or demolish the
building, the Council Hearing Panel shall establish specific time schedules for
the commencement and performance of the work and shall require the owner,
lienholder or mortgagee to secure the building in a reasonable manner from
unauthorized entry while the work is being performed. The Council Hearing Panel
may also order that occupants of the building be relocated within a reasonable
time.
   (B)   The Council Hearing Panel may not allow the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee more than 90 days to complete any part of the work required to comply
with the order unless the owner, lienholder or mortgagee has: (1) submitted at
the hearing a detailed plan and time schedule and (2) establishes at the
hearing that the work cannot be reasonably completed within  90 days because of
the scope and complexity of the work, If the Council Hearing Panel allows the
owner, lienholder, or mortgagee more than 90 days to complete any part of the
work required to repair, remove or demolish the building, the Council Hearing
Panel shall require the owner, lienholder or mortgagee to regularly submit
progress reports to the Council Hearing Panel through an Enforcement Officer to
demonstrate compliance with time schedules established for commencement and
performance of the work and may require that the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee appear before the Enforcement Officer, the Council Hearing Panel, or
their designees, to demonstrate compliance with the time schedules. If the
owner, lienholder, or mortgagee owns property, including structures or
improvements on property, within the city’s boundaries that exceeds $100,000 in
total value, the Council Hearing Panel may require the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee to post a cash or surety bond in an amount adequate to cover the cost
of repairing, removing, or demolishing a building under this subsection. In
lieu of a bond, the Council Hearing Panel may require the owner, lienholder, or
mortgagee to provide a letter of credit from a financial institution or a
guaranty from a third party approved by the Council Hearing Panel. The bond
must be posted, or the letter of credit or third party guaranty provided, not
later than the 30th day after the date the city issues the order.
   (C)   Within ten days after the date that the order is issued, the city
shall:
      (1)   File a copy of the order in the office of the City Secretary; and
      (2)   Publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the city a notice
containing:
         (a)   The street address or legal description of the property;
         (b)   The date of the hearing;
         (c)   A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and
         (d)   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
   (D)   After the hearing, the city shall promptly mail by certified mail with
return receipt requested, deliver by the United States Postal Service using
signature confirmation service, or personally deliver a copy of the order to
the owner of the building and to any lienholder or mortgagee of the building.
The city shall use its best efforts to determine the identity and address of
any owner, lienholder, or mortgagee of the building.
   (E)   If the building is not vacated, secured, repaired, removed, or
demolished, or the occupants are not relocated within the allotted time, the
city may vacate, secure, remove, or demolish the building or relocate the
occupants at its own expense. This subsection does not limit the ability of the
city to collect on a bond or other financial guaranty that may be required by
subsection (C) of this section.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.14  REPAIR, VACATION OR DEMOLITION.
   The following standards shall be followed by the Council Hearing Panel in
ordering the repair, vacation or demolition of any building, and any building
declared a nuisance under this chapter shall be made to comply with one or more
of the following:
   (A)   The building shall be repaired in accordance with the current
International Building Code or other current codes applicable to the type of
substandard conditions requiring repair.
   (B)   Repairs shall be deemed feasible only if less than 50% of the building
must be repaired or replaced, and the repairs amount to less than 50% of the
building’s value.
   (C)   If the building is in such a condition as to make it dangerous to the
health, safety and welfare of the occupants, it shall be ordered vacated and
secured from unlawful entry.
   (D)   If the building requires repairs over greater than 50% of its surface
or amounting to greater than 50% of its value, it shall be demolished. Further,
if a building cannot be repaired so that it will be brought into compliance
with this chapter, it shall be demolished. Additionally, if the building as it
stands presents an incurable fire hazard in violation of the terms of this
chapter or any ordinance of the city or law of the state, it shall be
demolished. For the purpose of this chapter, the term “demolished” includes the
cleaning and grading of the building and the removal of all debris and trash.
   (E)   If the building is not vacated, secured, repaired, removed or
demolished, or the occupants are not relocated within the allotted time, the
city may vacate, secure, remove or demolish the building or relocate the
occupants at its own expense, and may thereafter assess expenses, and establish
a lien against the property, as set forth in §
151.19A of this chapter.
   (F)   If, after the expiration of the time allotted under §
151.13 of this chapter, the owner, lienholder or mortgagee fails to comply, the
city may repair or cause the repairs necessary to bring the building into
compliance with this chapter and only if the building is a residential building
with ten or fewer dwelling units. The repairs may not improve the building to
the extent that the building exceeds the minimum standards, as defined by this
chapter, and expenses may be assessed as provided in §
151.19A of this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.15  DESIGNATION OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   Any enforcement officer, or his or her designated representative(s), is
hereby directed and authorized to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Nothing contained herein is meant to limit discretion of the
enforcement officer(s) in evaluating and directing compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.16  ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY AND LIABILITY.
   An enforcement officer, or his or her designated representative(s), acting
in good faith and without malice in the discharge of his or her duties, shall
not render himself or herself personally liable for any damage that may accrue
to persons or property as a result of any act or by reason of any act or
omission in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit brought against the
enforcement officer, or his or her designated representative(s), because of
such act or omission performed in the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter, shall be defended by legal counsel provided by the city until final
determination of such proceedings.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.17  REMEDIES.
   To enforce any requirement of this chapter, the Enforcement Officer may gain
compliance by any or all of the following:
   (A)   Taking such action as the enforcement officer deems appropriate within
the authorization provided for in this chapter or any other ordinance of the
city;
   (B)   Causing appropriate action to be instituted in a court of competent
jurisdiction;
   (C)   Ordering the abatement of the nuisance and assessing the costs of
abatement against the property if the owner of the property does not abate same
after the required notice; and
   (D)   Any other remedies permitted or authorized at law or in equity.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.18  TWENTY-FOUR HOUR ABATEMENT UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the requirement for abatement within
24 hours, or a period of time less than as prescribed herein for public
hearings, notice thereof, or the recovery of costs and establishment of liens,
when a nuisance has been declared an immediate threat to the public health and
safety by an enforcement officer.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.19  CONTRACTING FOR ABATEMENT.
   Whenever the property owner, or agent fails to abate the nuisance within the
time allowed, an enforcement officer is hereby authorized to contract with a
contractor to perform such work as may be required to abate the nuisance.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.19A  RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever the city enters a building and causes any work to be
performed to abate a nuisance, or if the building is not vacated, secured,
repaired, removed, or demolished, or if the occupants are not relocated within
the allotted time, the city may take such action at its own expense, and a
charge will be made to the property owner, or agent to recover the costs
associated with the abatement. The charge shall be the actual cost of
abatement, plus applicable sales taxes.
   (B)   An administrative fee of $200 shall be assessed for each such charge.
   (C)   If the actual charge and the administrative fee are not paid to the
city within 30 days after billing, the city shall file a lien against the
property. The lien shall be filed in the Deed Records of Van Zandt County,
Texas. The charges shown on the lien shall bear interest at the rate of 10% 
per annum from the due date until paid. The lien shall be collected under the
same terms and provisions of law as the city’s ad valorem taxes. The lien may
be extinguished prior to foreclosure if the owner or other person having an
interest in the legal title to the building reimburses the city for its
expenses. If the notice is given pursuant to §
151.10, and the opportunity to abate the nuisance or repair, remove, or
demolish the building is afforded to each mortgagee or lienholder under said §
151.10 of this chapter, the lien is a privileged lien subordinate only to tax
liens as authorized by Texas Local Government Code Section 214.001(o).
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.19B  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any owner, lienholder, or mortgagee of record of a building jointly or
severally aggrieved by an order of the Council Hearing Panel issued under this
chapter may file in district court a verified petition pursuant to § 214.0012
of the Texas Local Government Code, as amended. The city shall be entitled to
an award of attorney’s fees and other costs and expenses, and judgment
therefor, pursuant to and as authorized by § 214.0012(h) of the Texas Local
Government Code.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
§ 151.19C  MUNICIPAL COURT PROCEEDINGS NOT AFFECTED.
   Action taken by the city pursuant to this chapter shall not affect the
ability of the city to proceed under the jurisdiction of the city’s municipal
court, and the city may elect to pursue substandard building remedies pursuant
to this subchapter, applicable state law, or municipal court proceedings
without limitation and in combination where applicable.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016)
HOUSING CODE
§ 151.20  TITLE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Title. The provisions embraced within the following chapters and
sections shall constitute and be known and cited as The Canton Housing Code,
hereinafter referred to as this code.
   (B)   Purpose. This code shall be construed to secure the beneficial
interests and purposes thereof; which are public safety, health and general
welfare; through structural strength, stability, sanitation, adequate light and
ventilation, and safety to life and property from fire and other hazards
incident to the construction, alteration, repair, removal and demolition of
residential buildings.
   (C)   Scope.
      (1)   The provisions of this code shall apply to buildings, or portions
thereof, designed or intended to be used, or used, for human habitation,
regardless of when the building may have been constructed.
      (2)   This code establishes minimum standards for occupancy, and does not
replace or modify standards otherwise established for construction, replacement
or repair of buildings, except as are contrary to the provisions of this code.
   (D)   Existing buildings. The provisions of this code shall apply to any
dwelling, apartment, apartment house or rooming house, irrespective of when the
building was constructed, altered or repaired.
   (E)   Maintenance.
      (1)   All buildings or structures, both existing and new, and all parts
thereof, shall be maintained in a safe and sanitary condition.
      (2)   All devices or safeguards which are required by this code in a
building when erected, altered or repaired, shall be maintained in good working
order.
      (3)   The owner, or his or her designated agent, shall be responsible for
the maintenance of buildings, structures and premises.
   (F)   Application of Zoning Ordinance. Nothing in this code shall be
construed to cancel, modify or set aside any provision of the zoning ordinance
of the City of Canton.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.21  POWERS AND DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Enforcement Officer. There is hereby established by the City of
Canton, provisions for the enforcement of this code by the Building Inspector.
   (B)   Restrictions on employees.
      (1)   An officer or employee connected with the department, except one
whose only connection is a member of the Board established by this subchapter,
shall not be financially interested in the furnishing of labor, material or
appliances for the construction, alteration or maintenance of a building, or in
the making of plans or of specifications therefor, unless he or she is the
owner of the building.
      (2)   The officer or employee shall not engage in any work which is
inconsistent with his or her duties or with the interests of the Department.
   (C)   Records. The Building Inspector shall keep, or cause to be kept, a
record of the business of the Department. The Records of the Department shall
be open to public inspection.
   (D)   Right of entry; inspections.
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall enforce the provisions of this code,
and he or she, or his or her duly authorized representative, upon presentation
of proper identification to the owner, agent or tenant in charge of the
property, may enter any building, structure, dwelling, apartment, apartment
house or premises, during all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspection,
examination and survey, and in the interest of safeguarding the health and
safety of occupants and the general public.
      (2)   In cases of emergency where extreme hazards are known to exist
which may involve the potential loss of life or severe property damage the
above limitations shall not apply.
   (E)   Unsafe residential buildings.
      (1)   All residential buildings or structures used as such, which are
unsafe, unsanitary, unfit for human habitation, or not provided with adequate
egress, or which constitute a fire hazard, or are otherwise dangerous to human
life, or which in relation to existing use constitute a hazard to safety or
health by reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsolescence or
abandonment, are severally, in contemplation of this section, unsafe buildings.
      (2)   All the unsafe buildings are hereby declared illegal and shall be
abated by repair and rehabilitation or by demolition in accordance with the
following procedure:
   (F)   Notice.
      (1)   Whenever the Building Inspector determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision
of this subchapter or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, he or
she shall give notice of the alleged violation to the person or persons
responsible therefor and the alleged violation shall constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The notice shall:
         (a)   Be put in writing;
         (b)   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued;
         (c)   Allow 30-days’ time to initiate the actual construction of
improvements to correct the deficiencies in the notice or the performance of
any act it requires; and
         (d)   The notice shall further state that if the repairs,
reconstruction, alterations, removal or demolition are not voluntarily
completed within the stated time as set forth in the notice, the Building
Inspector shall institute legal proceedings charging the person or persons,
firm, corporation or agent with a violation of this code.
   (G)   Service of notice. Service of notice shall be as follows:
      (1)   By delivery to the owner personally, or by leaving the notice at
the usual place of abode of the owner with a person of suitable age and
discretion; or
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United State Post Office addressed
to the owner at his or her last known address with postage prepaid thereon; and
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted for 24 hours a copy of the notice in
a conspicuous place on the premises to be repaired.
   (H)   Liability.
      (1)   Any officer or employee, or member of the Housing Board of
Adjustments and Appeals, charged with the enforcement of this code, in the
discharge of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself liable
personally, and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for
any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties.
      (2)   Any suit brought against any officer or employee because of this
code shall be defended by the City Attorney until the final termination of the
proceedings.
   (I)   Reports. The Building Inspector shall annually submit a report to the
City Administrator covering the work of the Department during the preceding
year. He or she shall incorporate in the report a summary of the decisions of
the Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals during that year.
   (J)   Letter of compliance. A letter indicating compliance with the
provisions of this code may be issued by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.22  HARDSHIPS.
   Where the literal application of the requirements of this code are claimed
to cause undue hardship on an owner, or when it is claimed that the true intent
and meaning of this code or any of the regulations therein have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the owner of the building or structure, or
his or her duly authorized agent, may appeal from the decision of the Building
Inspector to the Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals, as set forth in §
151.24(A) below.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.23  HOUSING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Appointment.
      (1)   There is hereby created by the City Council a board to be known as
the Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals, which shall consist of not less
than five members appointed by the City Council.
      (2)    The membership, term of office, and officers thereof, shall
coincide with, and be the same as, the membership of the Board of Adjustment,
as created and established by the Zoning Ordinance for the City of Canton,
Texas, § 18.3, passed and approved October 4, 1985.
   (B)   Meetings. The Board shall meet at regular intervals to be determined
by the Chairperson, but shall, in any event, meet within ten days after notice
of an appeal has been received. Reasonable notice of the place, time and date
of the meeting shall be given all the members of the Board and all interested
parties in each case to be heard by the Board. Three members shall constitute a
quorum.
   (C)   Records. All minutes of the Board meetings shall be public records and
the Secretary of the Board shall keep all records and perform additional duties
as the Board may deem proper.
   (D)   Duties. The duties of the Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals
shall be:
      (1)   To consider and determine appeals whenever it is claimed that the
true intent and meaning of this code or any of the regulations thereunder have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted.
      (2)   To grant, in appropriate cases, where the application of the strict
requirements of this code or of the stated time for the performance of any
action required hereunder would appear to cause undue hardship on an owner, one
or more extensions of time, not to exceed 120 days each, from the date of the
decision by the Board. Applications for additional extensions of time shall be
heard by the Board. The requests for additional extensions of time shall be
filed with the Building Inspector not less than 30 days prior to the expiration
of the current extension.
   (E)   Procedure. The Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall
establish its own rules of procedure for accomplishment of its duties and
functions, provided that the rules shall not be in conflict with the provisions
of this code, and the laws of the state.
   (F)   Decisions.
      (1)   All decisions of the Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals to
vary the application of any provision of this code or to modify an order of the
Building Inspector shall specify in what manner such variance or modification
is made, the conditions upon which it is made, and the reasons therefor.
      (2)   Every decision shall be in writing and shall indicate the vote upon
the decision.
      (3)   A copy of all decisions shall be promptly filed in the office of
the Building Inspector and shall be open to public inspection.
      (4)   The Secretary shall notify the appellant in writing of the final
action of the Board.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.24  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person receiving written notice from the Building Inspector of
deficiencies of his or her property under this code may, within 30 days
following the date of the notice, enter an appeal in writing to the Housing
Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
      (2)   The appeal shall state the location of the property, and the date
of the notice of violations. The appellant must state the variance or
modifications requested, the reasons therefor, and the hardship or conditions
upon which the appeal is made.
   (B)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation or agent, who shall violate a
provision of this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, or who shall erect, construct, alter, demolish or move
any structure, or who has erected, constructed, altered, repaired, moved or
demolished a building or structure in violation of this code shall be
prosecuted within the limits provided by law.
      (2)   Each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for
each and every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the
provisions of this code is committed, or continued, and upon conviction of any
such violation the person shall be punished within the limits of, and as
provided by law.
   (C)   Permits. Any owner, authorized agent, or contractor who desires to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish or change an unsafe
residential building or structure or to cause any such work to be done, shall
first make application to the Building Inspector and obtain the required permit
therefor. Ordinary minor repairs may be made with the approval of the Building
Inspector without a permit; provided, that the repairs shall not violate any of
the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.25  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General. For the purpose of this subchapter, certain abbreviations,
terms, phrases, words and their derivatives, shall be construed as set forth in
this section. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   (B)   Meaning of certain words. Whenever the words DWELLING, DWELLING UNITS
or PREMISES, are used in this subchapter, they shall be construed as though
they were followed by the words, “or any part thereof.”
      ADDITION.  An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building
or structure.
      ALTER or ALTERATION.  Any change or modification in construction or
occupancy.
      APARTMENT.  A dwelling unit as defined in this code.
      APARTMENT HOUSE.  Any building or portion thereof used as a multiple
dwelling for the purpose of providing three or more separate dwelling units
which may share means of egress and other essential facilities.
      APPLICABLE GOVERNING BODY.  A city, county, state, state agency or other
political government subdivision or entity authorized to administer and enforce
the provisions of this code, as adopted or amended.
      APPROVED.  Approved by the Building Inspector or other authority having
jurisdiction.
      BUILDING.  Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof,
and used or built for the enclosure or shelter of persons, animals, vehicles,
goods, merchandise, equipment, materials, or property of any kind. This
definition shall include tents, dining cars, trailers, mobile homes, sheds,
garages, carports, animal kennels, storerooms or vehicles serving in any way
the function of a building as described herein.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR.  The officer, or other person charged with the
administration and enforcement of this subchapter, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
      DWELLING.  When used in this code without other qualifications, means a
structure occupied exclusively for residential purposes by not more than two
families.
      DWELLING UNIT.  A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
      EXTERMINATION.  The control and extermination of insects, rodents or
other pests by eliminating their harboring places; by removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating, trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination
methods.
      FAMILY.  One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit provided
that unless all members are related by law, blood or marriage, no such family
shall contain over three persons, but further provided that domestic servants
employed on the premises may be housed on the premises without being counted as
separate or additional family or families.
      FLOOR AREA.  The total area of all habitable space in a building or
structure.
      GARBAGE.  The animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
      HABITABLE ROOM.  A space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet compartments, closets, halls, storage or utility
space, and similar areas are not considered habitable space.
      INFESTATION.  The presence within or around a dwelling, of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING.  Any building, or portion thereof, which is occupied
as the home or residence of more than two families living independently of each
other and doing their own cooking in the building, and shall include flats and
apartments.
      NUISANCE.
         (a)   Any public nuisance known at common law or in equity
jurisprudence;
         (b)   Any attractive nuisance which may prove detrimental to children
whether in a building, on the premises of a building, or upon an unoccupied
lot. This includes any abandoned wells, shafts, basements or excavations;
abandoned refrigerators and motor vehicles; or any structurally unsound fences
or structures; or any, lumber, trash, fences, debris or vegetation which may
prove to be a hazard for inquisitive minors;
         (c)   Whatever is dangerous to human life or is detrimental to health,
as determined by the Health Officer;
         (d)   Overcrowding a room with occupants;
         (e)   Insufficient ventilation or illumination;
         (f)   Inadequate or unsanitary sewage or plumbing facilities;
         (g)   Uncleanliness, as determined by the Health Officer; or
         (h)   Whatever renders air, food or drink unwholesome or detrimental
to the health of human beings, as determined by the Health Officer;
      OPERATOR.  Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or
part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
      OWNER.  The holder of the title and any person, group of persons,
company, association or corporation in whose name tax bills on the property are
submitted. It shall also mean any person who, alone, or jointly or severally
with others:
         (a)   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
         (b)   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner, executor, executrix, administrator, trustee, guardian of the
estate of the owner, mortgagee or vendee in possession, or assignee of rents,
lessee or other person, firm or corporation in control of a building; or their
duly authorized agents. Any such person shall be bound to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, and of rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, to the same extent as if he or she were the owner. It is his
responsibility to notify the actual owner of the reported infractions of these
regulations pertaining to the property which apply to the owner.
      PERSON.  And includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
      PLUMBING.  The practice, materials and fixtures used in the installation,
maintenance, extension and alteration of all piping, fixtures, appliances and
appurtenances in connection with any of the following: sanitary drainage or
storm drainage facilities, the venting system and the public or private water-
supply or conveyance; also the practice and materials used in the installation,
maintenance extension or alteration of storm-water, liquid-waste or sewage, and
water-supply systems of any premises to their connection with any point of
public disposal or other acceptable terminal.
      PREMISES.  A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings or
structures thereon.
      PUBLIC AREAS.  An unoccupied open space adjoining a building and on the
same property, that is permanently maintained, accessible to the Fire
Department, and free of all encumbrances that might interfere with its use by
the Fire Department.
      REPAIR.  The replacement of existing work with the same kind of material
used in the existing work, not including additional work that would change the
structural safety of the building, or that would affect or change required exit
facilities, a vital element of an elevator, plumbing, gas piping, wiring or
heating installations, or that would be in violation of a provision of law or
ordinance. The term REPAIR or REPAIRS shall not apply to any change of
construction.
      REQUIRED.  Required by some provision of this code.
      RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.  Buildings in which families or households live or
in which sleeping accommodations are provided, and all dormitories, shall be
classified as Residential Occupancy. The buildings include, among others, the
following: dwellings, multiple dwellings and rooming houses.
      RUBBISH.  Combustible and non-combustible waste materials except garbage;
and the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, or
other combustible material, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metal, mineral
matter, glass crockery and dust.
      STAIRWAY.  One or more flights of stairs and the necessary landings and
platforms connecting them, to form a continuous and uninterrupted passage from
one story to another in a building or structure.
      STRUCTURE.
         (a)   That which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of
any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of parts
joined together in some definite manner.
         (b)   The term STRUCTURE shall be construed as if followed by the
words “or part thereof.”
      SUPPLIED.  Paid for, furnished or provided by or under control of, the
owner or operator.
      TEMPORARY HOUSING.  Any tent, trailer or other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utility system on the same premises for
more than 30 consecutive days.
      YARD.  An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building extending
along the entire length of a street, or rear, or interior lot line.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.26  FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required sanitary facilities.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain not less than a kitchen sink,
lavatory, tub or shower, and a toilet, all in good working condition and
properly connected to an approved water and sewer system.
      (2)   Every plumbing fixture and water and waste pipe shall be properly
installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free from defects,
leaks and obstructions.
   (B)   Location of sanitary facilities.
      (1)   All required plumbing fixtures shall be located within the dwelling
unit and be accessible to the occupants of same.
      (2)   The toilet, tub or shower, and lavatory shall be located in a room
affording privacy to the user and the room shall have a minimum floor space of
30 square feet, with no dimension less than four feet.
      (3)   Bathrooms shall be accessible from habitable rooms, hallways,
corridors or other protected or enclosed areas, not including kitchens or other
food preparation areas.
   (C)   Hot and cold water supply.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall have connected to the kitchen sink,
lavatory and tub or shower an adequate supply of both cold and hot water.
      (2)   All water shall be supplied through an approved distribution system
connected to a potable water supply.
   (D)   Water heating facilities.
      (1)   Every dwelling shall have water heating facilities which are
properly installed and maintained in a safe and good working condition and
which are capable of heating water to such a temperature as to permit an
adequate amount of water to be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory,
basin, bathtub or shower at a temperature of not less than 120°F.
      (2)   Minimum storage capacity of the water heater shall be 30 gallons.
   (E)   Heating facilities. Every dwelling unit shall have heating facilities,
or gas and electric heating connections, which are properly installed,
maintained in safe and good working condition, and capable of safely and
adequately heating all habitable rooms and bathrooms in every dwelling unit
located therein to a temperature of at least 68°F under ordinary minimum winter
conditions.
   (F)   Cooking and heating equipment. All cooking and heating facilities
shall be installed in accordance with the building, mechanical, gas or
electrical code, and shall be maintained in a safe and good working condition.
Portable cooking equipment employing flame is prohibited for indoor use.
   (G)   Garbage disposal facilities. Every dwelling unit shall have adequate
garbage disposal facilities or garbage storage containers.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.27  MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR ELECTRICITY.
   (A)   Electric lights and outlets required.
      (1)   Where there is electric service available to the building
structure, every habitable room or space shall contain at least two separate
and remote convenience outlets and bedrooms shall have, in addition, at least
one wall switch controlled ceiling or wall type light fixture.
      (2)   In kitchens, three separate and remote convenience outlets shall be
provided, and a wall or ceiling type light fixture controlled by a wall switch
shall be required.
      (3)   Every hall, water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room or
furnace room shall contain at least one electric fixture.
      (4)   In bathrooms, the electric light fixture shall be controlled by a
wall switch.
      (5)   In addition to the electric light fixture in every bathroom and
laundry room, there shall be provided at least one convenience outlet.
      (6)   Every such outlet and fixture shall be properly installed, shall be
maintained in good and safe working condition, and shall be connected to the
source of electric power in a safe manner.
   (B)   Minimum requirements for electrical systems. Every electrical outlet
and fixture required by this code shall be installed, maintained, and connected
to a source of electric power in accordance with the provisions of the
electrical code.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.28  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR THE EXTERIOR AND INTERIOR OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Foundation. The building foundation system shall be maintained in a
safe manner and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be
placed thereon.
   (B)   Exterior walls.
      (1)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or
rotting boards or timbers, and any other conditions which might admit rain or
dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the occupied spaces of the
building.
      (2)   All siding material shall be kept in repair.
   (C)   Roofs. Roofs shall be structurally sound and maintained in a safe
manner and have no defects which might admit rain or cause dampness in the
walls or interior portion of the building.
   (D)   Means of egress.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
with minimum ceiling height of seven feet leading to a safe and open space at
ground level.
      (2)   Stairs shall have a minimum head room of six feet eight inches.
   (E)   Stairs, porches and appurtenances. Every inside and outside stair,
porch and any appurtenance thereto shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon; and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   (F)   Protective railings. Protective railings shall be required on any
unenclosed structure over 30 inches from the ground level or any steps
containing four risers or more.
   (G)   Windows and doors.
      (1)   Every window, exterior door and basement or cellar door and
hatchway shall be substantially weather-tight, watertight and rodent proof; and
shall be kept in sound working condition and good repair.
      (2)   Every window sash shall be fully supplied with glass window panes
or an approved substitute which are without open cracks or holes, and shall be
properly fitted and weather-tight within the window frame.
   (H)   Windows to be openable. Every window required for light and
ventilation for habitable rooms shall be capable of being easily opened and
secured in position by window hardware.
   (I)   Hardware. Every exterior door shall be provided with proper hardware
and maintained in good condition.
   (J)   Door frames. Every exterior door shall fit reasonably well within its
frame so as to substantially exclude rain and wind from entering the dwelling
building.
   (K)   Screens. Every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor
space shall have screen doors with a self-closing device; and every window or
other device with opening to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for
ventilation, shall likewise have screens.
   (L)   Protective treatment. All exterior wood surface, other than decay
resistant woods, shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or
other protective covering or treatment.
   (M)   Accessory structures. Garages, storage buildings and other accessory
structures shall be maintained and kept in good repair and sound structural
condition.
   (N)   Interior floor, walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Every floor, interior wall and ceiling shall be substantially
rodent proof; shall be kept in sound condition and good repair; and shall be
safe to use and capable of supporting the load which normal use may cause to be
placed thereon.
      (2)   Every toilet, bathroom and kitchen floor surface shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be substantially impervious to water and so
as to permit the floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (O)   Structural supports. Every structural element of the dwelling shall be
maintained in a structurally sound condition and show no evidence of
deterioration which would render it incapable of carrying loads which normal
use may cause to be placed thereon.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.29  MINIMUM DWELLING SPACE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Required space in dwelling unit.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 150 square feet of floor
space for the first occupant thereof, and at least 100 additional square feet
of floor area per additional occupant.
      (2)   The floor area shall be calculated on the basis of the total area
of all habitable rooms.
   (B)   Minimum ceiling height. Habitable rooms other than storage rooms and
laundry rooms shall have a ceiling height of not less than seven feet.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991)
§ 151.30  DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS AND LEGAL PROCEDURE.
   The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the condemnation and placarding of the unfit dwellings or
dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements.
   (A)   Dangerous structures. Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be
found to have any of the following defects shall be condemned as unfit for
human habitation and declared to be a nuisance and shall be so designated and
placarded by the Housing Official:
      (1)   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe
or vermin-infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of
the occupants or the public; or
      (2)   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or the public.
   (B)   Form of notice.
      (1)   Whenever the Building Inspector has declared a dwelling as unfit
for human habitation and constituting a nuisance, he or she shall give notice
to the owner of the declaration and placarding of the dwelling or multi-family
dwelling as unfit for human habitation.
      (2)   The notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
         (c)   State that if the repairs, reconstruction, alterations, removal
or demolition are not voluntarily completed within the stated time as set forth
in the notice, the Building Inspector shall institute legal proceedings
charging the person or persons, firm, corporation or agent with a violation of
this code.
   (C)   Service of notice. Service of notice of violation shall be as follows:
      (1)   By delivery to the owner personally, or by leaving the notice at
the usual place of abode of the owner with a person of suitable age and
discretion; or
      (2)   By depositing the notice in the United State Post Office addressed
to the owner at his last known address with postage prepaid thereon; and
      (3)   By posting and keeping posted for 24 hours a copy of the notice in
a conspicuous place on the premises to be repaired.
   (D)   Occupancy of dwellings.
      (1)   No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded
as unfit for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until
approval is secured and the placard is removed by the Building Inspector.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall remove the placard whenever the defect
or defects upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have
been eliminated.
   (E)   Removal of placard or notice.
      (1)   No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or
dwelling unit which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and
placarded as such, except as provided in division (D) above.
      (2)   A person who violates this provision by defacing or removing the
placard is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during
which the violation is committed, continued or permitted.
      (3)   Each offense, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine of not less
than $50 nor more than $250.
   (F)   Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
      (1)   After the notice is posted, a date for a public hearing before the
Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall be set.
      (2)   Notice of this hearing shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the last known owner of the property at least ten days
prior to the date of the public hearing.
      (3)   This notice of public hearing shall also state the defects of the
structure which caused the building or structure, or portion thereof, to be
unsafe, unsanitary or unfit for human habitation.
      (4)   At the public hearing the owner shall have the right to appear and
present evidence concerning the condition of the building or structure; the
work, if any, required to render the building or structure safe, sanitary or
fit for human habitation; or a reasonable time schedule for completing any of
this work.
      (5)   Following the public hearing, the Housing Board of Adjustments and
Appeals shall issue an order either finding the building to be safe, sanitary
and fit for human habitation or setting forth the repairs and improvements
necessary to make the building or structure, or portion thereof, safe, sanitary
and fit for human habitation and the time schedule for accomplishing the repair
of the defects or recommending to the City Council that the building be
demolished.
      (6)   This order shall be sent by first class mail to the last known
property owner within ten days of the public hearing.
      (7)   If the order recommends demolition, it shall state the date of the
City Council meeting at which the matter will be considered.
      (8)   In those cases, the demolition order will be mailed at least 15
days before the City Council meeting at which the matter will be considered.
      (9)   If the order recommends that the building be repaired, at the
conclusion of the period of time stated in the order for completion of the
repairs the matter will again be reviewed by the Housing Board of Adjustments
and Appeals.
      (10)   The owner will be given notice of this consideration by first
class mail. Following this hearing, the Housing Board of Adjustments and
Appeals shall enter any additional order which it determines necessary to cause
the building or structure, or portion thereof, to become safe, sanitary and fit
for human habitation, or to have the building or structure demolished.
   (G)   Action by City Council.
      (1)   If the Housing Board of Adjustments and Appeals recommends
demolition of the structure or building, it shall have the matter placed on the
agenda of a meeting of the City Council for further action.
      (2)   The City Council shall either order demolition of the building or
structure or refer the matter back to the Housing Board of Adjustments and
Appeals for further action directed toward obtaining compliance with this code.
      (3)   If the City Council orders the demolition of the building or
structure, it shall enter a written order of demolition.
      (4)   A copy of this order shall be sent by first class mail to the
property owner, agent or person in control of the structure.
      (5)   The order may provide that the building or structure be demolished
immediately by a licensed contractor employed by the city.
      (6)   It shall be the responsibility of the Building Inspector to carry
out the terms and conditions of the demolition order.
      (7)   In so doing, he or she is authorized to contract the work at city
expense.
      (8)   The Building Inspector shall prepare a certified statement of
charges incurred by the city to repair or demolish the building or structure.
      (9)   All costs of demolition or repairs shall be at the personal
obligation of the person who owns the building at the time the demolition order
was issued and shall also be assessed as a lien against the land.
      (10)   An affidavit of lien shall be filed with the Van Zandt County
Clerk and a demand for payment issued to the owner.
      (11)   If timely payment does not follow the issuance of the demand, the
City Attorney is authorized to bring a legal action for foreclosure of the lien
and for a judicially authorized sale of the property to pay demolition costs.
      (12)   Any money received at the sale of the property in excess of
demolition costs and costs of sale shall be credited to the owner of the
property.
   (H)   Notice prior to sale. Before selling any building, structure or
portion thereof, upon which a notice has been posted pursuant to division (B)
above, the owner is required to give the following notices in writing:
      (1)   To the buyer, a notice stating:
   “The Building Inspector of the City of Canton as determined that the
building on (Lot and Block) (Street Address)  is unsafe for occupancy.
Occupancy of this building is prohibited and administrative proceedings are in
progress to require repair or demolition of this building to be accomplished at
the expense of the owner.”
      (2)   To the City Building Inspector, P.O. Box 245, Canton, Texas, 75103,
a notice stating:
   “I am selling the property located (Lot And Block) (Street Address) to (Name
of Buyer) whose address is (Mailing address and street address). The date of
the sale is (Month, day and year).”
      (3)   If the owner fails to give the notices required by this section, he
or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction be punished
by a fine of not more than $1,000.
(Ord. 91-5, passed 4-16-1991; Ord. passed - -)
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.45  SHORT TITLE AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Title; map adopted. This subchapter shall be known as the Flood Hazard
Prevention Ordinance for the City of Canton, Texas. The flood hazard boundary
map issued by the Federal Insurance Administration of the City of Canton,
Texas, dated 6-26-1975 with Panel Number(s) H, and any officially published
revisions to this map, is hereby adopted as the official map for the
enforcement of this subchapter. Zone A on this map delineates the area within
which the requirements of this subchapter will be enforced.
   (B)   Statutory authority. The Legislature of the State of Texas has in Tex.
Rev. Civ. Stat., Art. 8280-13 delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood bases.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 151.46  FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the City of Canton are subject to
periodic innundation which results in loss of life and property, health and
safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)    These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in flood plains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (B)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private losses
due to flood conditions in specific areas by provision designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in flood plains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Ensure the potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 151.47  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL.  A request for a review of the administrative and interpretation of
any provision of this subchapter or a request for a variance.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general or temporary condition or partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of streams, rivers or
other inland water or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface
waters from any source.
   FLOOD PLAIN or FLOOD PRONE AREA.  Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source.
   FLOOD-PROOFING.  Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   HABITABLE FLOOR.  Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL.  The average height of the sea for all stages of the tide.
   MOBILE HOME.  A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers. The term includes but it is
not limited to, the definition of MOBILE HOME as set forth in regulations
governing the Mobile Home Safety and Construction Standards Program (24 C.F.R.
§ 3282.8(a) and (b)).
   PERSON.  Any individual or group of individuals, corporation, partnership,
association or any other entity, including state and local governments and
agencies.
   RIVERINE.  Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage
tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a mobile home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any repair, reconstruction, improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either, (a) before the improvement or repair is started, or (b) if
the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before the damage
occurred. For the purposes of this definition SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure.
   VARIANCE.  A grant or relief by the City of Canton from the terms of the
Flood Hazard Prevention Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 151.48  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Administrative official.
      (1)   The provisions of this subchapter shall be administered and
enforced by the Director of Public Works of the City of Canton (Local
Administrator).
      (2)   Whenever any construction work is being done contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter, the  Director of Public Works (Local
Administrator) may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on the
owner or contractor doing or causing the work to be done, and any such persons
shall forthwith stop the work until authorized by the Director of Public Works
(Local Administrator) to proceed with the work.
   (B)   Building permit requirements.
      (1)   No person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve,
move or demolish any building or structure without first obtaining a separate
permit for each building or structure from the Public Works Director (Local
Administrator).
      (2)   No human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, shall be commenced
until a separate permit has been obtained from the Director of Public Works
(Local Administrator).
      (3)   No mobile home shall be placed on improved or unimproved real
estate without first obtaining a separate permit for each mobile home from the
Director of Public Works (Local Administrator).
      (4)   To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file a permit
application on a form furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed
and submitted to the  Director of Public Works before (Local Administrator) the
issuance of a permit will be considered.
   (C)   Application review procedures.
      (1)   To ensure that a building permit shall indicate the following
regulations have been adhered to for all proposed development located within
any officially identified flood hazard area (Zone A), the Director of Public
Works (Local Administrator) shall review:
         (a)   All applications for construction and other development to
determine whether all necessary permits have been received from those
governmental agencies from which approval is required by federal and state law.
         (b)   All applications for construction and other development to
determine whether the mean sea level elevation has been provided for the lowest
habitable floor including basement.
         (c)   All applications for new construction and substantial
improvements including prefabricated buildings and mobile homes to determine
whether such are:
            1.   Protected against flood damage;
            2.   Designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent flotation,
collapse or lateral movement;
            3.   Contain construction material and utility equipment that are
resistant to flood damage; and
            4.   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage.
         (d)   All applications for mobile homes to determine whether the
structures are anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement in
accordance with the Texas Department of Labor and Standards’ Texas Mobile Home
Tie-down Standards.
      (2)   The  Director of Public Works shall obtain, review and reasonably
(Local Administrator) utilize any base flood elevation data available from a
federal, state or other source, until such other data has been provided by the
Federal Insurance Administration, as criteria for requiring that:
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood; and
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements of
nonresidential structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated
or flood-proofed to or above the base flood level.
      (3)   The Director of Public Works shall maintain and hold open for
public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of this subchapter.
   (D)   Variance procedures.
      (1)   The Appeals Board as established by the City of Canton shall hear
and render judgement on requests for variances from the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (2)    The Appeals Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only
when it is alleged there is an error in any requirements, decision or
determination made by the  Director of Public Works  (Local Administrator) in
the enforcement or administration of this subchapter.
      (3)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeals
Board may appeal the decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
      (4)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
      (5)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of
this subchapter, the Appeals Board may attach such conditions to the granting
of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of
this subchapter.
      (6)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
         (a)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief; and
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 151.49  SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Subdivision proposals. All subdivision proposals and other proposed
new developments greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever is the lesser,
shall include within the proposals base flood elevation data.
   (B)   Subdivision approval. An approval of subdivision shall indicate that
the following regulations, have been adhered to for parts of the subdivision
having areas officially identified as flood hazard areas (Zone A).
      (1)   All subdivisions shall be required to:
         (a)   Be consistent with the need to minimize flood damage;
         (b)   Locate, elevate and construct all public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, so as to minimize
flood damage;
         (c)   Provide adequate drainage so as to reduce exposure to flood
hazards;
         (d)   Locate, elevate streets and curbing and locate, size and shape
lots in a manner which will permit each lot to provide an adequate building
site for residential or non-residential structures with the building permit
requirements contained in this subchapter; and
         (e)   As a part of subdivision plat approval, water supply and
sanitary sewer systems shall be designed and installed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of flood waters into water systems and discharge of sewer systems
into flood waters. Plats with planned on-site waste disposal systems shall be
approved only where the systems can be designed, located and constructed so as
to avoid impairment of these or contamination from these during flooding.
      (2)   All mobile home parks and subdivisions located in a flood hazard
area in which the base flood elevation data is available shall file an
evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and escape routes with
the appropriate Disaster Preparedness Authorities.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 151.50  WATER AND SANITARY SEWER DESIGN.
   All new or replacement water supply systems and/or sanitary sewer systems
shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into
the systems and/or discharge from the systems into the flood waters.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 151.51  ALTERATION OR RELOCATION OF A WATERCOURSE.
   The  Director of Public Works (Local Administrator) shall notify, in
riverine situations, adjacent communities and the Texas Development of Water
Resources prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and assure
that the flood carrying capacity is maintained.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 151.52  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESOLUTION.
   (A)   It is not intended by this subchapter to repeal, abrogate or impair
any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where the
administration of terms of this subchapter will impose greater restrictions,
the provisions of this subchapter shall prevail.
   (B)   All other ordinances or regulations inconsistent with provisions
herein are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 151.53  WAIVER AND DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   Flood protection required by this subchapter is reasonable and is
based upon sound surveys, data interpretations and computations. However,
larger floods than that of a 1% chance of occurring in any year may occur on
rare occasions or under unusual conditions.
   (B)   Flood heights may be higher than computed, due to human-made or
natural causes which inhibit discharge of flood waters.
   (C)   This subchapter does not imply that areas outside of designated areas
of special flood hazard or that uses permitted within such delineations will be
free of flooding or flood damage.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or
any officer or employee thereof for any personal injury, death or property
damage from flooding that may result from reliance on this subchapter or any
administration decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985)
§ 151.54  BUILDER/CONTRACTOR; LEGAL ADDRESS.
   All utility companies shall not extend or furnish their services to any new
business or residence under construction without the builder or contractor
producing the required building permit with an established legal address.
(Ord. passed 12-16-1965)
MINIMUM EXTERIOR STANDARDS
§ 151.65 EXCEPTIONS.
   All properties inside the city limits shall comply with this subchapter with
the following exceptions:
   (A)   State and federally registered historic structures are exempt from the
building façade requirements.
   (B)   When a specific use permit (SUP) is required, the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the City Council may impose alternate masonry requirements for
structures which shall be set forth in writing by the City Council prior to
issuance of the building permit and shall be incorporated into the amending
ordinance establishing the SUP.
   (C)   Temporary construction buildings, field offices and sales offices are
exempt from the building façade requirements if removed when their usefulness
has ended or in 18 months of placement, whichever comes first. Prior approval
from the Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council must be made for
jobs that require more than 18 months.
   (D)   Residential property that has been platted as of October 19, 2004, may
use vinyl siding or a similar wood product in addition to the materials listed
in §
151.66.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 151.66  BUILDING FAÇADE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Building materials. As applicable to meeting the minimum requirements
for the building façade requirements within each zoning district; all building
material must be applied using the recommended standards from the manufacturer.
The following masonry materials are permitted:
      (1)   Brick - A kiln fired clay or slate material of severe-weather
grade.
      (2)   Stone - includes naturally occurring granite, marble, limestone,
slate, river rock, and other similar hard and durable all-weather stone that is
used in exterior building construction. Cast or manufactured stone products may
also be used provided that such products yield a stone-like appearance and they
are highly durable and maintenance-free.
      (3)   Burnished block - grinded to reveal the aggregate matrix within the
block.
      (4)   Decorative concrete block (CMU) - textured finish such as split-
face, indented, hammered fluted, ribbed or similar architectural finish.
Lightweight concrete block is not acceptable. Cinder blocks (Haydite), smooth
or untextured finished concrete blocks are not permitted on any side(s) of the
building facing a public street.
      (5)   Tilt wall panels - textured finish, smooth or untextured finished
tilt-wall panels are not permitted on any side(s) of the building facing a
public street unless they meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Are faced with embedded river rock;
         (b)   Have an embossed face to look like weathered wood;
         (c)   Are stamped or formed with various geometric patterns; and/or
         (d)   Have a brick ledge which can be bricked or have laid stone or a
combination, hereof;
         (e)   Meet similar aesthetic as approved in writing by Canton City
Building Official.
      (6)   Stucco - concrete-plastering with cement plaster.
      (7)   Glass block - any type used as an exterior building material.
      (8)   Cement based planks or paneling - fabricated cement panels.
      (9)   Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS) - may be utilized as
an architectural accent material not to exceed 50% of any exterior surface. To
be installed four feet above ground level.
      (10)   Wood - for use in commercial and general industrial districts
only. Wood accent materials may be utilized as an architectural accent material
on the front façade only not to exceed 25% of the exterior surface. The accent
material shall be a minimum of 1-1/2" in thickness and shall not be plywood,
particle board or laminate and must be treated.
   (B)   Minimum building façade standards. The standards and criteria
contained within this subsection are minimum building façade standards and
shall apply to all new building construction.
      (1)   Residential - all residential-zoning districts include the
following: Agriculture District (RA), Single Family (R-1), Single Family (R-2),
Single Family (R-3), Single Family (R-4), Multiple Family (Duplex) (Apartment)
(MF-1 and MF-2).
         (a)   The exterior building façade of all new structures in
residential zoning districts shall have a minimum of 75% masonry.
         (b)   The masonry shall be equally distributed around the building. No
single wall face of any structure should contain less than 50% masonry
construction.
         (c)   Areas of a façade that are devoted to windows, doors, fascia,
shall not be counted as “wall surface” when calculating the building façade
requirement.
         (d)   1.   Accessory buildings over 300 SF shall conform to the
exterior façade of the main building. Agriculture District (RA) uses shall be
exempt from this requirement.
            2.   Any accessory structure not contained in the rear 30% of the
yard from any adjoining street must have a masonry front if unobstructed.
         (e)   CMU, metal panels, and tilt wall panels are not permitted as a
building façade material on any single-family or multi-family residential
structure
      (2)   Commercial - all commercial zoning districts to include the
following: Local Business District (B-1), General Business District (B-2) and
Restricted Professional Office District (RPO).
         (a)   The exterior building wall of all new structures in the
commercial zoning districts shall be 100% masonry front façade required and 50%
on any side(s) of the building facing a public street.
         (b)   Wood - for use in commercial and general industrial districts
only. Wood accent materials may be utilized as an architectural accent material
on the front façade only not to exceed 25% of the exterior surface. The accent
material shall be a minimum of 1-1/2" in thickness and shall not be plywood,
particle board or laminate and must be treated.
         (c)   Areas of a façade that are devoted to windows, doors, fascia,
shall not be counted as “wall surface” when calculating the building façade
requirement.
         (d)   All accessory buildings shall conform to the exterior façade of
the main building.
         (e)   Additions:
            1.   The exterior building façade of all new additions to existing
structures in the Commercial Districts shall comply with the building façade
standards requirement herein; or
            2.   The Board of Adjustments may consider a variance or other form
of architectural design to the additions of structures that existed as of
October 19, 2004, the initial adoption date of this subchapter.
      (3)   General Industrial District: To include (GI-1) and Light Industrial
(LI).
         (a)   The exterior building wall of all new structures in the
industrial zoning districts shall be 100% masonry front façade.
         (b)   Wood - for use in commercial and general industrial districts
only. Wood accent materials may be utilized as an architectural accent material
on the front façade only not to exceed 25% of the exterior surface. The accent
material shall be a minimum of 1-1/2" in thickness and shall not be plywood,
particle board or laminate and must be treated.
         (c)   Areas of a façade that are devoted to windows, doors, fascia,
shall not be counted as “wall surface” when calculating the building façade
requirement.
         (d)   Additions:
            1.   The exterior building façade of all new additions to existing
structures in the industrial districts shall comply with the building façade
standards requirement herein; or
            2.   The Board of Adjustments may consider a variance or other form
of architectural design to the additions of structures that existed as of
October 19, 2004.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-17-2017)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.67  REFUSE STORAGE CONTAINER SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   Refuse storage containers shall be enclosed on three sides with six-foot
walls constructed of the same materials and finishes as the building front
façade. All openings shall have a minimum width of eight feet and the gate’s
minimum height shall be six feet. Gate may also be constructed of wood or other
materials customarily used in gate construction. Wire fences are prohibited for
gates.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-17-2017)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.68  MECHANICAL SCREENING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Ground-mounted equipment. All ground-mounted equipment including, but
not limited to, pad-mounted transformers, telephone switch boxes, gas meters,
shall be reasonably screened from the view of public rights-of-way and the view
from adjacent properties.
      (1)   All required screening shall meet clearances as required by the
affected utility companies.
      (2)   Acceptable means of screening are trees or evergreen-type
shrubbery, masonry walls as masonry is defined in this subchapter, earthen
berms in conjunction with landscaping.
      (3)   Screening heights shall be in proportion to the equipment it is
designed to screen. A maximum height of a screen shall be ten feet. If a
mechanical unit is taller than the maximum permitted height of the screening,
screening shall be set back from the screen five feet plus two feet for each
foot it exceeds the height of the screen.
      (4)   Screening for mechanical units shall apply to new building
construction only.
   (B)   Roof-mounted equipment. All roof-mounted equipment including, but not
limited to, fans, vents, and cooling towers shall be screened so as not to be
visible to the immediate ground level and the ground level of adjacent
properties. In addition, roof-mounted equipment shall be placed and finished in
a manner which minimizes its visibility from overhead views from nearby
buildings and elevated thoroughfare sections.
      (1)   Screening for mechanical roof-mounted equipment will come into
effect only if the footprint for the mechanical equipment exceeds 45 square
feet.
      (2)   Overall screening height shall be the height of the highest element
of roof-mounted equipment.
      (3)   The outside of the screening device shall be painted or otherwise
finished so as to be similar in color to the color of the roof surface or to
the color of the building facade or trim, whichever color is more effective in
minimizing the visibility of the equipment and screen from ground level.
      (4)   Roof color shall be compatible with building color.
      (5)   To the greatest extent possible, roof-mounted equipment shall be
placed in a linear configuration except for normal plumbing vents or flutes.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 151.69  SCREENING WALLS OR VISUAL BARRIERS.
   In the event that an MF-1, MF-2, RPO, B-1, or B-2 and/or GI district sides
or backs upon an R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-4 zoned district, a solid screening wall or
fence of not less than six nor more than eight feet in height shall be erected
along the entire property line separating these districts, except where
visibility triangles or easements are required. The purpose of the screening
wall or fence is to provide a visual barrier between the properties. The owner
of such property shall be responsible for and shall build the required wall or
fence along the entire property line dividing his or her property from the
residential district. In cases where the Planning and Zoning Commission finds
this requirement to be impractical for immediate construction, it may grant a
temporary or permanent waiver of the required screening wall or fence until
such time as the screening wall or fence may be deemed necessary by the City
Council. In cases where the Planning and Zoning Commission finds this
requirement to be better met by an irrigated evergreen living screen, the same
may be substituted for the screening wall.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 151.70  GENERAL FENCE AND WALL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   FRONT YARD FENCE is defined as any fence which is built past the front
building line of the principal structure on a lot. The front building line is a
line parallel to the front lot line which passes through the supporting member
of the principal structure. Front yard fences are allowed with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Front yard fences are subject to the approval of the Building
Inspector. A building permit is required for all front yard fences.
      (2)   Front yard fences must be decorative fences constructed of
conventional fencing materials such as picket, split rail, or decorative iron.
Fence material shall be pre-approved by the Building Department. Materials such
as chain link, wire, barbed-wire, railroad ties or plywood are not allowed.
See-through fences that do not impact the visual dominance of the home are
recommended.
      (3)   Front yard fences must not be higher than 48 inches. Posts may not
be higher than six inches above the fence.
      (4)   No front yard fence may obstruct or impair the “visual sight-line”
required of any driveway, street, alley, private street, avenue, lane,
sidewalk, public way or public passageway. The minimum “visual sight-line”
requirement is 25 feet of clear space or 45 degrees line of sight, whichever
provides the best visibility.
   (B)   Sight-proof fences (i.e., brick or wood) may not exceed eight feet in
height and see-through fences (i.e., chain-link) may not exceed six feet in
height in rear yards in residentially-zoned districts (R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF-
1, MF-2 and MH-1). Where a corner lot has two front yards, the second front
yard may be fenced in the same manner as any other side yard adjacent to a
street.
   (C)   No old or used materials shall be used in the construction of any
fence. Fencing material must be in a sound and usable condition. All fences
shall be maintained in a good state of repair at all times. Painted or stained
fences must be kept in good appearance. No fence in any zone may be
electrified.
   (D)   Exceptions:
      (1)   For public and parochial schools, private and primary schools, and
day care centers, fences or berms may be a combined maximum height of 60 inches
above grade, provided that the fence material is wrought iron or chain link.
      (2)   Wire fences are allowed in the General Industrial (GI-1) District
in front yards and may be allowed to enclose pastures, cropland and other areas
used for agricultural purposes. The wall or fence shall not exceed eight feet
in height.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-17-2017)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.71  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall include all future annexations.
(Ord. 2017-14, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall unwilfully refuse or fail to leave a building
which has been ordered vacated under the terms of §§
151.01 through
151.07 or who shall enter an area around the building that has been declared to
be dangerous and notice of which declaration shall have been posted and/or any
person who shall interfere with or hinder the vacation, repair or demolition of
any building under the terms of §§
151.01 through
151.07, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine
of no more than $200, and upon conviction shall be fined in any sum not
exceeding $200 and each and every day’s violation shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense. In case the owner or occupant of any substandard building
ordered vacated, repaired or demolished under the terms of §§
151.01 through
151.07 shall be a corporation, and shall violate any provision of §§
151.01 through
151.07, the president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer of the corporation,
or any manager, agent or employee of the corporation shall be also severally
liable for the penalties therein provided.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
151.45 through
151.54 will be subject to a fine of not more than $200. Every day that any such
person violates the same, shall constitute a separate and distinctive offense;
in addition, any abutting owner or lessee or other person predicatively
affected by the violation or the terms of §§
151.45 through
151.54 may resort to any court of competent jurisdiction for any writ or writs
or to obtain the release in law or equity as may be deemed advisable in the
premises.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions or terms of this §§
151.65 through
151.71 shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of $200 for each
offense, together with the costs of such prosecution. Each and every day the
offense continues shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense. In addition
to and cumulative of all other penalties, the city shall have the right to seek
injunctive relief for any and all violations of §§
151.65 through
151.71.
   (E)   (1)   Any person violating or failing to comply with any provision,
requirement or order issued pursuant to §§
151.01 through
151.19C  shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be
fined as provided in the applicable ordinance. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed upon each day during or on which a violation or failure to
comply occurs or continues to occur.
      (2)   In addition to any other remedies or penalties contained in this
section, the city may enforce the provisions of §§
151.01 through
151.19C pursuant to the applicable provisions of Texas Local Government Code,
Chapter 54, which provides for the enforcement of municipal ordinances.
      (3)   Allegation and evidence of a culpable mental state is not required
for the proof of an offense defined by §§
151.01 through
151.19C.
(Ord. passed 11-19-1985; Ord. 2016-07, passed 4-19-2016; Ord. 2017-14, passed
10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Findings of fact
   
152.03   Statement of purpose
   
152.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
Definitions
   
152.10   Definitions
General Provisions
   
152.15   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.16   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.17   Establishment of development permit
   
152.18   Compliance
   
152.19   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.20   Interpretation
   
152.21   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.30   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.31   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.32   Permit procedures
   
152.33   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.40   General standards
   
152.41   Specific standards
   
152.42   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.43   Standards for area of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
152.44   Floodways
 
   
152.99   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
§ 152.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The Legislature of the State of Texas has in the Flood Control Insurance
Act, Texas Water Code, § 16.315, delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the City of Canton, Texas does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Canton are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.04  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.10  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING.  Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD.  The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on
a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual
chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and
where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding
or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year - also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL.  A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any man-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.  For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings, or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters.
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOOD PROOFING.  Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of
the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane
tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood
modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
standards.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see FLOOD or FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOODWAY.   See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the  Secretary of the  Interior in  states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.  A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-\ resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL.  For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  For the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY.  The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE.  Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook, etc.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred substantial
damage, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of an historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as an
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see Section 60.6 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community's floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in Section 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.15  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard with the
jurisdiction of Canton.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.16  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
"The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Van Zandt County, Texas And Incorporated
Areas," dated December 17, 2010, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
dated December 17, 2010, and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.17  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.18  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.19  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.20  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.21  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.30  DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Manager (or designee) is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 CFR (Emergency Management and Assistance -
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.31  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency which is the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB) and also
the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Assure that the flood-carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
152.16, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.40 through
152.44.
   (I)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements,
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community.
   (J)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that
the community first completes all of the provisions required by Section 65.12.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.32  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but
not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be flood proofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential flood proofed structure shall meet the flood proofing
criteria of §
152.41(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
152.31(A);
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the Flooplain
Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter and the
following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.33  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in § 153.32(B) have been fully
considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter in §
152.03.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as an historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
152.16,
152.31(H) and
152.42(C), the following provisions are required:
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division as proposed in §
152.32(A)(1) is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to one foot
above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division. A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are flood
proofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to one foot above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this division of this section be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at one foot above
the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles.  Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days; or
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
152.32(A), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes
in division (D) of this section. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway
use if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by
quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently
attached additions.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.42  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
152.02,
152.03 and
152.04.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
152.17,
152.32 and the provisions of this subchaper.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
152.16 or
152.31(H).
   (D)   Base flood elevation data, with the establishment of a floodway, shall
be generated by a detailed engineering study for all Zone A areas, within 100
feet of the contour lines of Zone A areas, and other streams not mapped by
FEMA, as indicated on the community's FIRM.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.43  STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.16 are areas designated as shallow flooding, These areas have special flood
hazards associated with flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by
ponding or sheet flow; therefore, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to one foot
above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high
as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least one
foot if no depth number is specified).
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures;
      (1)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to one foot
above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high
as the depth number specified in feet on the community's FIRM (at least one
foot if no depth number is specified); or
      (2)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed
so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below the base
flood elevation in an AH Zone, level the structure is watertight with walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
   (C)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
Section, as proposed in §
152.32 are satisfied.
   (D)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.44  FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.16 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters which carry debris,
potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions shall
apply:
   (A)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
   (B)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations, a community may permit
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first completes
all of the provisions required by Section 65.12.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court
order and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this
court order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court
order or fails to comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction
thereof be fined not more than $2,000 for each violation, and in addition shall
pay all costs and expenses involved in the case. Each day a violation occurs is
a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City of Canton
from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 2010-12, passed 8-12-2010)
CHAPTER 153:  SIGNS REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   Regulations of signs
   
153.02   Prohibited signs
   
153.03   On-premise sign requirements
   
153.04   Billboards
   
153.05   Sign types permitted by zoning
   
153.06   Signs in general
   
153.07   Non-conforming signs
   
153.08   Obsolete signs and unsafe signs
   
153.09   Maintenance of signs
   
153.10   Miscellaneous signs
   
153.11   Variances or appeals
   
153.12   Permits
   
153.13   Enforcement
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  REGULATIONS OF SIGNS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless clearly indicated to the contrary:
   AWNING.  A structure hung from the surface of a building designed to provide
protection from sun, rain, wind and other weather conditions. An AWNING may be
composed of fabric, steel, wood, Plexiglas, among other materials.
   BANNER.  A type of temporary sign that is generally constructed of
lightweight plastic, fabric or a similar material, that is over one square foot
in size, and that is mounted/tethered to a pole(s), building or other structure
at one or more edges, A BANNER typically (but not always) exhibits a text
message and/or a symbol(s) for the business located on the property or for a
product or service provided by that business. National/state or local
governmental flags are not considered BANNERS (see FLAG below).
   BILLBOARD.  A sign displaying advertising that pertains to a business,
organization, activity, person or persons, event, place, service, product or
agency not principally located or primarily manufactured or sold on the
premises on which the sign is located. BILLBOARDS may not exceed 672 square
feet on a single side, with a maximum sign height of 25 feet and a maximum sign
face length of 60 feet. Any sign over 336 square feet per side shall be
considered a billboard. Billboard signs and frames may not exceed 35 feet in
height.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (CBD).  The boundaries are: Groves Street on the
north, Highway 19 (Trade Days Blvd.) on the east, Little Street and Wills Point
Street on the west and College on the south. The accompanying map (Figure 1)
delineates the boundaries of the Central Business District.
Figure 1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/9f70f84ccb8c3c9d89adba8468bb944d970d9eaf/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1090.jpg]
 
   CITY.  For the purposes of this chapter, the term “city” shall mean the City
of Canton, Van Zandt County, Texas.
   FEATHER BANNER/S IGN.  A sign that is constructed of lightweight material
(such as cloth, canvas, or vinyl), affixed to a pole or building which is
similar to a flag, except that it is longer than it is wide. A FEATHER BANNER
resembles a feather, in that it is tall and narrow, having more surface area
vertically than horizontally when fully extended.
   FLAG.  Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, words
and/or insignia which is used as a symbol for a government, political
subdivision, or some other professional religious,  educational or nonprofit
corporate entity, provided that such device is displayed for noncommercial
(i.e., not-for-profit) purposes.
   FLASHING.  Includes all signs which alter their illuminated intensity
through the use of strobe light, rotating beacons, flashing lights which cause
illumination to vary.
   GARAGE SALES.  Yard sales, rummage sales, estate sales, or sale of anything
of value on any premises not considered a retail business establishment and
zoned accordingly and/or licensed to do business in the City of Canton and/or
the State of Texas.
   ILLUMINATED.  Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or
outlines which are illuminated by electrical lights, luminous tubes or any
other source of artificial light.
   LOGO.  Any formalized design, insignia or trademark of a company or product
which is commonly used to advertise that company or product.
   MARQUEE SIGN.  A “theater type” sign in which letters are physically
removable to allow for different messages. MARQUEE SIGNS are generally
illuminated.
   MESSAGE SIGN.  Any sign which through the use of independently illuminated
light displays the time, day, date, temperature and brief messages, either in a
scrolling, flashing or digital manner.
   MONUMENT SIGN.  A sign permanently affixed to the ground at its base,
supported entirely by a base structure and not mounted on a pole or as part of
a building.
   OBSOLETE SIGN.  Any sign which no longer serves a bona fide use or purpose
on a lot with or without a structure.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN.  A sign displaying advertising copy that pertains to a
business, person, event, organization, activity, service or product not
principally located or primarily manufactured or sold on the premises where the
sign is located.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN.  A sign identifying or advertising a business, person or
activity and installed and maintained on the same premises as the business,
person or activity.
   POLE SIGN.  A sign that is permanently supported in a fixed location by a
structure of poles, posts, uprights or braces from the ground and not supported
by a building, fence, vehicle, base structure or other support. Any sign that
has a time limit in accordance with this chapter that is supported by stakes,
posts, poles, uprights or braces is not a POLE SIGN within the meaning of this
chapter.
   POLITICAL SIGN.  A sign upon which the content is primarily related to
notice of or advocacy for an election of a person to public office, a political
party, a primary election, a matter to be voted upon at an election called by a
public body, or an ongoing issue of public concern.
   PORTABLE SIGN.  A sign not permanently attached to the ground or a building
which is designed to be easily transported or conveyed to different locations.
This term includes, but is not limited to: sandwich boards, signs affixed to
trailers or signs on metal stands with skids or wheels.
      (1)   Any sign on a vehicle which identifies the business by displaying
the name, address and/or telephone number of such business and/or identifying
the type of product or service offered by the business. The primary use of such
vehicle shall be for the delivery of persons, products or services in
connection with the business and the vehicle must be currently licensed,
inspected and registered with the State of Texas and in operable condition.
Such vehicles must be parked in a designated parking space and may not be
parked within ten feet of the right-of-way. Any vehicle left over 24 hours and
parked in such a way to be used as a portable sign is prohibited.
      (2)   Any sign on a trailer, back of pick-up truck, flatbed or tractor-
trailer rig parked for over 24 hours or parked in such a way to cause visual
clutter is considered a portable sign and is prohibited. Sandwich boards and
any temporary banners, and A-frame type signs are considered PORTABLE SIGNS and
are prohibited.
      (3)   Menu boards are considered PORTABLE SIGNS. Menu boards not over two
feet by two feet used for restaurants, cafes or food service establishments to
fist items, dishes,  meals or specialties for sale are allowed on private
property.
   PREMISES.  A single lot or unplatted tract, or a combination of contiguous
lots or unplatted tracts, if the lot or tract (or combination) is under single
ownership and is reflected in the plat or deed records of the county.
   PROJECTING SIGN.  Any sign which projects from a building and has one end
attached to a building or other permanent structure.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Land reserved, used or to be used for a street, alley,
walkway, drainage facility, utility or other public purpose. RIGHT-OF-WAY
includes public easements and public waterways.
   ROOF SIGN.  A sign that is displayed above the eaves and under the peak of a
building. This term includes a sign painted, erected, constructed or maintained
on the roof of a building.
   SIGN.  Every sign, name, number, display, flag identification, description,
announcement, declaration, demonstration, device, banner, pennant,
illustration, beacon, light or insignia, and structure supporting any of the
same affixed directly or indirectly to or upon any building or outdoor
structure, or erected or maintained upon a piece of land which is used to
inform the public of any object, product, service, place, activity, person,
institution, organization or business, and is visible from the public right-of-
way. Any interior illuminated or moving sign or light which is visible from the
exterior may be determined as being erected on the exterior of the building or
structure.
   TEMPORARY (SPECIAL EVENT) SIGN.  Signs for specific occasions with a
predetermined date, duration and end point. Examples include, but are not
limited to: sale, clearance, athletic events, garage sales, yard sales, open
house and farmers’ market signs.
   WALL SIGN.  Any sign attached to or painted on a wall or facade of a
vertical structure with the sign facing parallel to and not more than 12 inches
from the wall surface. A sign attached to or painted upon an awning shall be
considered a WALL SIGN.
   WINDOW SIGN.  Any sign, banner or painted message which is displayed from
the building interior and is visible through the window of the establishment.
This type of sign is one that is intended directly for viewing from the outside
and does not include interior signs which may be partially visible from the
outside of the establishment.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.02  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following type signs are prohibited in the city limits and in the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the City of Canton:
   (A)   Portable signs;
   (B)   Roof-top signs;
   (C)   Inflatable and tethered balloon signs (except by special exception);
   (D)   Off-premise signs;
   (E)   Obsolete signs;
   (F)   Signs violating the sight triangle of intersections;
   (G)   Signs placed on utility poles;
   (H)   Signs placed in the right-of-way;
   (I)   Three dimensional signs;
   (J)   Flashing;
   (K)   Swinging or rotating signs;
   (L)   Signs which move or have moving parts;
   (M)   Temporary bench signs;
   (N)   Vehicular signs and banners (except by special exception); and/or
   (O)   Temporary signs without permission.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.03  ON-PREMISE SIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Wall signs. One wall sign is allowed per each building side visible
from a public roadway.
The maximum area allowed for wall signs is as follows:
 
Building Frontage    Surface
1 - 50 linear feet   40 square foot sign per side
51 -100 linear feet  50 square foot sign per side
101-150 linear feet  55 square foot sign per side
Over 150 linear feet 60 square foot sign per side
 
   (B)   Pole signs.
      (1)   Pole signs are only allowed on commercial property (Zoned B-1, B2,
or GI-1).
      (2)   Only one pole sign is allowed per site (platted lot).
      (3)   There shall be only two display faces for each pole sign (back-to-
back or splayed).
      (4)   Signs must be set a minimum of five feet outside of an existing
right-of-way.
      (5)   No pole sign may be allowed closer than 50 feet of any
residentially-zoned area.
      (6)   Signs may not be attached to any structure and must be a uni-pole
or bi-pole constructed of steel.
      (7)   Signs must be designed and installed to meet the requirements of
the ICC Building Code or current adopted City of Canton Building Code and the
Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation.
      (8)   No lighting will be allowed which flashes or creates glare on
public streets or on the adjacent property.
      (9)   The maximum area allowed for pole signs is as follows:
 
Building             Minimum          Maximum           Maximum
Frontage             Ground Clearance Surface           Sign Height
1-50 linear feet     8 feet           100 s.f. per side 18 feet
51-100 linear feet   8 feet           150 s.f. per side 20 feet
101-150 linear feet  12 feet          200 s.f. per side 25 feet
Over 150 linear feet 15 feet          250 s.f. per side 35 feet
 
      (10)   Pole signs on property located within 660 feet of the I-20 right-
of-way require engineered plans stamped by a P.E. The maximum area allowed is
as follows:
 
Minimum Ground Clearance Maximum Surface   Maximum Sign Height
18 feet                  300 s.f. per side 94 feet
 
   (C)   Marquee signs. Marquee signs are considered “theater type” signs with
blocked case for paper/ cardboard signs.
      (1)   Use of a marquee sign shall be limited to entertainment-oriented
land uses (movie theaters, civic centers, opera houses, restaurants, etc.).
Verification of this fact is required on the sign permit.
      (2)   Marquee signs must not project more than six feet from the building
surface. A distance of two feet must be maintained from the outer edge of the
marquee sign and any traffic control sign.
      (3)   The lowest portion of a marquee sign must be no less than eight
feet and no higher than 20 feet above the sidewalk.
      (4)   Only one marquee sign is allowed per business.
      (5)   Marquee signs must be a minimum of 30 feet from any neighboring
sign, measured by the nearest face to the nearest face.
   (D)   Projecting signs.
      (1)   Projecting signs may not extend more than six feet from the
building surface and must be at least eight feet above the sidewalk or walking
path and no higher than 20 feet above the sidewalk.
      (2)   Only one projecting sign per business is allowed.
   (E)   Monument signs. Monument signs shall be set onto a base present a
solid, attractive and well-proportioned appearance that complements the
building design and materials. Monument signs are not visibly supported by
poles or posts. They shall be attached directly to the ground and shall not
exceed ten feet in height measured from the adjacent existing grade and zero
feet from the ROW. All signs shall be engineered to 2006 IBC or the edition
then being used by the City of Canton.
      (1)   Size of monument signs.
         (a)   Maximum width of ten feet, including total structure.
         (b)   Maximum height of ten feet. A series of contiguous properties
may combine signage and square feet into a single monument sign. However, each
individual property would not be allowed their own individual monument sign in
addition to the combined sign. Signs must be spaced a minimum of 75 feet apart
and 25 feet from another lot. Wall signs may be placed on the building and
shall not exceed 5% of the total area of the elevation.
      (2)   Monument signs shall be set into a base presenting a solid and
well-proportioned appearance that complements the building design and
materials.
      (3)   Monument signs must be at least five feet from the right-of-way.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.04  BILLBOARDS.
   New billboards are only allowed within the city limits and extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the City of Canton within 660 feet of the Interstate 20 right-
of-way. AH billboards must comply with the Texas Highway Beautification Act as
administered by the Texas Department of Transportation. All billboards must be
permitted by the State of Texas and the City of Canton. All billboards must be
engineered to meet minimum code requirements.
   (A)   Size.
      (1)   The maximum size for any off-premise single-faced billboard shall
be 672 square feet. Billboard panels may not be stacked or placed side by side.
Maximum per side for a double faced billboard is 672 square feet. Billboard
signs may not exceed 25 feet in height or 60 feet in width with a maximum sign
and frame height of 35 feet above the grade of the roadway.
      (2)   Signs may not be attached to any building and must be of an
approved steel pole design. Uni-poles are required unless another design is
approved by the building official. No Billboard in excess of two sides shall be
allowed.
      (3)   No movement is allowed on billboards. Billboards may not move,
rotate, gyrate or give the impression of movement.
      (4)   Off-premise billboards on Interstate 20 may not be closer than
4,500 feet along the right-of-way to another off-premise billboard.
      (5)   Billboards may not be located within 1,500 feet of any public park,
public playground or school.
      (6)   Illuminated billboards may be lighted only by lights that are
properly installed, shaded or concealed, and are aimed so the light will shine
directly on the sign face and will not interfere with the vision of motor
vehicle operators, nor shine directly on any residential-zoned property.
Illumination of such signs must not be flashing or intermittent.
   (B)   Number.
      (1)   The number of billboards in the city limits and extraterritorial
jurisdiction of Canton is limited to the number in existence on October 28,
2016.
      (2)   To encourage the reduction of billboards, the owner of a sign that
was lawfully erected in compliance with the standards then in effect or
lawfully in place at the time it was annexed into the city, or that owner’s
designee, may be awarded credit for removing such a sign.
         (a)   One credit will be awarded for each face that is removed from a
lawfully-existing billboard. In order to receive a permit for the erection of a
billboard, two credits must be used per each new face. Credits shall be issued
equal to each square foot removed, with a minimum face requirement of 336 feet.
No credit will be issued for removal of a sign face less than 336 square feet.
         (b)   The city shall issue a permit to any billboard owner or owner’s
designee holding sufficient credits for the erection of a billboard in a
location approved by the city which meets the requirements of this chapter.
Replacement billboards shall only be located in current legal non-conforming
sign locations or in the areas designated along I-20. Legal conforming signs
may not be exchanged for legal nonconforming signs. Billboards in the ETJ may
not be exchanged for legal nonconforming signs inside the city limits. The
permit must state the number of faces to be erected and address all
requirements set forth in this section.
         (c)   Credits are transferable.
         (d)   Credit is received when a billboard owner or owner’s designee
removes a sign voluntarily, except if the reason is loss of the lease. No
credit will be issued for a sign in violation of any federal, state or city
laws when erected.
         (e)   To be awarded a credit under the incentive program, a sign owner
or owner’s designee must notify the city within 60 days of the removal of a
billboard and receive a letter issued by the city awarding the credit. Failure
to apply for a credit within 60 days from the removal of a sign bars the
awarding of credit for that sign. Any unused credits will be held in reserve
indefinitely in order to give incentive for immediate removal of current faces.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.05  SIGN TYPES PERMITTED BY ZONING.
   (A)   Gateway District.
      (1)   Monument signs only.
      (2)   Single pole signs; portable signs; window signs and painted signs;
billboards; banners (except for 15-day grand opening); and feather signs are
prohibited in the Gateway District.
   (B)   Restricted Professional and Office District (RPO) Zoned Areas.
Monument signs only.
   (C)   Central Business District.
      (1)   Wall signs.
      (2)   Marquee signs.
      (3)   Projecting signs.
   (D)   First Monday Business District.
      (1)   Permanent signage on city property must be reviewed by the First
Monday Committee. All FMBD permanent signage must be properly permitted.
      (2)   All types of signs allowed except pole signs and billboards.
   (E)   B-1, B-2 and GI-1. All signage allowed except billboards.
   (F)   R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF-1, MF-2, MH-1. Monument signs only.
   (G)   The following signs are not regulated by the sign ordinance:
      (1)   Traffic control signs.
      (2)   City signs.
      (3)   Construction signs - one per lot, no more than 40 square feet.
      (4)   Information signs - warning signs, security, parking, directional
signs and community or school information signs or banners.
      (5)   Real estate signs - one sign allowed per lot, ten square feet or
less per face.
      (6)   Political/Campaign signs - cannot have an effective area greater
than 36 square feet, cannot be more than eight feet in height, cannot be
illuminated, and cannot have moving elements. Political signs must follow all
other state and federal rules and regulations regarding political/campaign
signs.
      (7)   Temporary banners and signs to announce the opening of a new
business are allowed up to 30 days with the permission of the Building
Official.
      (8)   Temporary off-site banners promoting a public event, a charity or
non-profit event may be erected subject to special permitting procedures listed
below:
         (a)   Application for an off-site banner must be submitted to the
Building Official at least 30 days prior to the opening day of the event. The
applicant must list the size of the banner, the location of the banner, a
contact name and information concerning the event. The banner must be placed up
and removed by the applicant in the time agreed. Prior to placement of the
banner, a permit must be obtained at City Hall. Preference will be given to
non-profit organizations, civic organizations, IRS recognized charities, and
events held in the Canton city limits. Banners not removed on time will be
removed, and the organization sponsor will be charged for a sign permit and
will not be allowed to advertise in the future.
         (b)   Banners which receive a special permit may be allowed up for a
maximum of two weeks. If no other party is scheduled for special events, the
banner may go up for an additional two weeks (30-day total). Banners may not be
scheduled more than three months in advance of the event.
      (9)   Interior signs not visible from the centerline of the street
parallel with the building facade shall be allowed. Signs visible from the
street centerline must meet the requirements of the ordinance.
      (10)   Flags of the United States government or the State of Texas, or
any other governmental flag, may be displayed in an appropriate, respectful and
proper manner according to the U.S. Flag Code and the Texas Flag Code. Flag
poles must meet building code requirements and must be set a minimum of 15 feet
off the right-of-way.
      (11)   Historical markers designating a local, state, or national
landmark are allowed.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.06  SIGNS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   Content. The City of Canton does not regulate the content of signs;
however, no sign shall be allowed which contains slanderous, obscene language
or pictures, or inflammatory language or images.
   (B)   Out-of-compliance signs. All signage within the City of Canton shall
be maintained as to copy quality, structural integrity and clear of ground
foliage. Failure to comply can result in a fine or the required removal of the
sign.
   (C)   Electrical work on signs. Prior to the issuance of any permit for
signage with external or internal lighting, an electrician licensed with the
State of Texas, or a master sign electrician with the State of Texas holding a
current license, must obtain a permit.
   (D)   Signs must be located so a minimum of ten feet clearance exists
between any portion of the sign and all overhead power lines. OSHA required
regulations must be allowed for working clearances from power lines or
energized equipment.
   (E)   Right-of-way. No sign may be constructed or posted on a public right-
of-way. All legally permitted signs installed must be a minimum of five feet
from an existing right-of-way. No sign may be placed on a utility pole, traffic
pole, light pole, sign pole or any trees.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.07  NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   A sign that does not conform to the regulations prescribed in this Code and
that did not exist lawfully as of the 28th day of October, 2016, shall be
deemed a non-conforming sign.
   (A)   Modification. A nonconforming sign or sign structure shall be brought
into conformity with this chapter if more than 50% of the nonconforming sign is
altered, reconstructed or replaced; or if the sign is relocated. A change in
copy is not an alteration or replacement for purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Removal. Removal of a nonconforming sign, or replacement of a
nonconforming sign with a conforming sign, is required when a nonconforming
sign, or a substantial part of a nonconforming sign, is blown down, destroyed
or, for any reason or by any means, taken down, altered, or removed.
      (1)   As used in this subsection, “substantial” means 50% or more of the
entire sign structure.
      (2)   As used in this section, the term “substantial” also applies if the
cost of reconstruction or replacement of the sign, sign structure or building
exceeds 50% of the value of the sign, sign structure, or building prior to the
event that necessitated its reconstruction or replacement.
      (3)   Nothing contained in this section is intended to prevent the
routine repair and maintenance of a nonconforming sign.
   (C)   Removal of a nonconforming sign, or replacement of a nonconforming
sign with a conforming sign, is required when the condition of the
nonconforming sign or nonconforming sign structure has deteriorated or has been
damaged and the cost of restoration of the sign to its condition immediately
prior to such deterioration exceeds 50% of the value of the sign or sign
structure prior to its deterioration.
   (D)   Removal of a nonconforming sign, or replacement of a nonconforming
sign with a conforming sign, in accordance with this section, must be completed
within 60 days of the occurrence in which the nonconforming sign, or a
substantial part thereof, was blown down, destroyed, or for any reason or by
any means taken down, altered, or removed.
   (E)   Permits for other signs. Before any permit may be issued for a new
sign under this chapter, the responsible party shall modify or remove any
nonconforming sign displayed on the same property for which the permit is being
sought, so that all the signs on the property conform to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (F)   Redevelopment permit. Any building addition that increases the gross
floor area of a property by 50% or more, or any exterior structural remodeling
of a building facade of 50% or more on which a nonconforming sign is located,
shall require all nonconforming signs on the property for which the permit is
issued to be brought into conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Separation. No sign that is nonconforming solely because it violates a
requirement for the spacing of monument signs shall be required to eliminate
that nonconformity if compliance with the spacing regulation on the property is
not practicable.
   (H)   Maintenance. A non-conforming sign may be maintained.
      (1)   The right to continue all non-conforming signs shall cease, and
such sign shall be removed whenever:
         (a)   An approved application for a certificate of occupancy or a
change of use for a business occurs per the Building Code and the sign is
associated with the previous business.
         (b)   A sign is altered, renovated, remodeled, moved or relocated
without a permit per the requirements of this section.
         (c)   A sign is destroyed and the cost to repair exceeds 50% of the
replacement cost on the date of the damage.
         (d)   A sign is leaning or has fallen.
         (e)   A zoning change occurs and a non-conforming off-premise sign or
a nonconforming on-premise sign is located on the property.
         (f)   A sign is deemed obsolete or unsafe.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.08  OBSOLETE SIGNS AND UNSAFE SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign which the Building Official determines no longer serves a
bona fide use conforming to this code or an abandoned use shall be removed by
the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the land, building or
structure upon which the land is located within 30 days after written
notification from the Building Official or the City of Canton. Upon failure to
comply with such notice, the City of Canton may issue fines or remove such
sign, and any expense incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of the land,
building or structure to which such sign is attached or upon which it is
erected. Abandoned use shall be any sign which is not used for advertising or
discontinued for a period of 60 days or more. Abandoned signs shall be
considered obsolete. Obsolete signage includes poles, frame or any structure
part used to erect or construct the sign.
   (B)   If the Building Official or the City of Canton determines that any
sign is unsafe or unsecure, or is a menace to the public, he or she shall give
written notice to the owner, person or persons responsible for such sign. If
the permittee, owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the premises
fails to remove or repair the sign within 30 days after such notice, such sign
may be removed by the Building Official or the City of Canton at the expense of
the permittee or owner of the property upon which it is located. Fines may also
be issued to the owner or person or persons responsible for such unsafe signs.
The Building Official may cause any sign, or part of any sign, that is an
immediate hazard to persons to be removed summarily and without notice.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.09  MAINTENANCE OF SIGNS.
   All signs and sign support structure, together with all its supports,
braces, guys and anchors shall be kept in repair and in a proper state of
preservation. The display surfaces of all signs shall be kept neatly painted or
posted at all times.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.10  MISCELLANEOUS SIGNS.
   (A)   Garage sale, estate sale, and yard sale signs.
      (1)   Any person who holds a proper permit may erect a sign on his or her
own property, or on the property of another person with the owner’s permission,
for the purpose of advertising a garage, estate, or yard sale. The address,
permit number and date must be shown on the sign. Signs may only be displayed
24 hours prior to the sale and the days the sale is in progress. Signs must be
removed 24 hours after the sale ends. No more than four sales for one calendar
year are allowed.
      (2)   No more than two garage sale, estate sale or yard sale signs may be
located on the premises where the sale is conducted.
      (3)   Signs shall not be located on any public right-of-way, public
property, median or any public road, street or highway. Signs shall not be
placed on any utility pole, signal pole, sign pole or trees. Signs must be
removed within 24 hours after the sale ends.
      (4)   Failure to comply with this chapter with the proper placement or
removal of garage, estate or yard sale signs will result in the person or
persons forfeiting the privilege of a sale permit for one year. Continued
violations will result in fines.
   (B)   Vehicles parked at intersections or in public rights of way
advertising a sale or decorated in any manner are illegal and prohibited.
   (C)   Political signs are allowed on private property with the owner’s
permission. Political signs cannot have the following: (1) cannot have an
effective area greater than 36 square feet; (2) cannot be more than eight feet
in height; (3) cannot be illuminated; and (4) cannot have moving elements.
   (D)   Banners, paper, cardboard, foamboard and any painting or stenciling
with any name, number or otherwise marked in a manner to advertise on any
property without a permit are illegal. No sign or advertising is allowed for a
home business use in any residential area of the City of Canton.
   (E)   Governmental signs (State of Texas, federal signs, school signs at
athletic facilities) or the painting of the street address numbers on curbs is
allowed.
   (F)   Temporary announcement or special occasion signs are allowed for five
days.
   (G)   Religious emblems, when installed in compliance with zoning and
construction codes, are allowed.
   (H)   Seasonal decorations are allowed for a maximum of sixty (60) days,
provided traffic visibility is not affected.
   (I)   Changing message signs, such as theater marquees, fuel prices, time
and temperature signs, electronic read boards and menus are allowed if the sign
itself is not altered or expanded.
   (J)   Roof top flags are not allowed.
   (K)   All signs in a Planned Development District may be reviewed and
approved as part of the overall development plan. Total signs for all sites in
the development may be aggregated and the total allowance redistributed. Sign
locations, types and sizes may be varied; however, they must be consistent with
site and landscape planning principles and will be part of the review process.
   (L)   Signs for sexually-oriented businesses.
      (1)   Signage shall be limited to wall signs only.
      (2)   One wall sign is allowed per each building side visible from a
public roadway. The maximum area allowed for wall signs is as follows:
 
Building Frontage     Surface
1 - 50 linear feet    40 square foot sign per side
51-100 linear feet    50 square foot sign per side
101 - 150 linear feet 55 square foot sign per side
Over 150 linear feet  60 square feet sign per side
 
      (3)   Wall signs may not extend above the roof line of the establishment.
      (4)   Contents of the signs shall not include any offensive or obscene
language.
      (5)   Signs may not display any anatomical figures or body parts.
      (6)   Signs may not be illuminated with neon, argon, Krypton, Xenon or
any gas-filled tubes except for standard mercury vapor-type fluorescent
lighting tubes.
      (7)   Signs may not contain any colored or “glow in the dark” fluorescent
lighting or paint.
      (8)   Signs may not contain the letters “X” in any number or form unless
it is the name of the business.
      (9)   Signs may not describe sexual activities.
      (10)   Signs may not contain photographic reproductions or any moving or
motion picture.
      (11)   No signage inside the establishment shall be allowed to be visible
from the exterior of the business.
      (12)   Signs may contain the name of the business, address and type of
business (i.e., “Adult Cabaret” or “Adult Motel”).
      (13)   Signs must have “opaque” backgrounds and be illuminated internally
or with shielded light sources to be energy efficient.
      (14)   White background or yellow background signs which produce light
pollution shall be discouraged.
      (15)   Signage must be pre-approved by the City of Canton Building
Official prior to issuance of a permit.
   (M)   Signs for display of alcoholic beverages.
      (1)   No person shall erect or maintain a billboard, electric sign, or
any outdoor advertising for the sale or consumption of an alcoholic beverage
within the city limits.
      (2)   No person shall erect, post or display any signs or other forms of
advertisement for the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages inside the
alcoholic beverage establishment if same can be viewed from a public street.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.11  VARIANCES OR APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear all requests for variances or
appeals to the decision of the Building Official or to the provisions of the
City of Canton Sign Ordinance. Appeals must be filed in a timely manner (within
15 days after the decision of the Building Official or denial of a permit). The
Board of Adjustment shall adhere to all local ordinances and State of Texas
laws as outlined in the Local Government Code.
   (B)   All cases shall be heard by a minimum of 75% of the members of the
Board of Adjustment. The concurring vote of 75% of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Building Official or to decide in favor of the applicant
in any matter which the Board is required to act upon under this chapter.
   (C)   The person requesting the appeal may appear before the Board in person
or by agent or attorney. The burden of proof shall be on the applicant to
establish the necessary facts to warrant a favorable action of the Board on any
matter. Any action granting a variance authorizing the issuance of a sign
permit shall be valid for only 90 days, if the permit is not secured within 90
days and construction is not commenced in compliance with the Building Code,
the Board’s decision shall be null and void without prejudice. No appeal may be
made to the Board on the same related action or piece of property prior to six
months from the previous ruling by the Board, unless the previous property has
been changed or altered so as to alter the facts and conditions upon which the
Board action was based.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged there is an error on any order, requirement or decision or
determination by the Building Official in enforcement of this chapter.
   (E)   The Board may authorize such variances where the literal enforcement
of the provisions of this Code would result in an unnecessary hardship (the
hardship may not be the result of the applicant’s own actions). Economic gain
or loss shall never be sufficient grounds for the finding of a hardship or for
granting a variance. Variances shall not be granted to permit any person a
privilege in placing a sign on a parcel of land not permitted by this Code to
other parcels of land in the City of Canton.
   (F)   The Board may authorize the use of alternative materials, design
standards or new methods of construction, where the Board finds the alternative
is satisfactory and complies with the provisions of the sign ordinance and
finds that the material, design standard or alternative method of construction
is at least the equivalent of that prescribed in the ordinance in quality,
strength, effectiveness, durability and safety.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012) 
§ 153.12  PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, replace, enlarge or
relocate any sign within the City of Canton or its extraterritorial
jurisdiction without first obtaining a permit to do so from the Building
Official.
   (B)   In order to obtain a building permit, a detailed drawing of the sign
must be submitted to the Building Official for approval and the site of the
sign must be flagged or marked.
   (C)   The applicant must acquire all required building permits as they apply
to the sign. All construction work is subject to City code enforcement.
   (D)   All applicable State of Texas permits must be obtained prior to
applying for a permit from the City of Canton.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.13  ENFORCEMENT.
   All new signs or banners constructed, erected, hung or displayed within the
City of Canton and/or its extraterritorial jurisdiction after the effective
date of this chapter must comply with these standards. The Building Official
shall be responsible for enforcement.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions or terms of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be
fined a sum not to exceed $2,000 for each offense, and each and every violation
or day such violation shall continue or exist, shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 9-11-2012)
CHAPTER 154:  USE OF CITY RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND PUBLIC EASEMENTS
Section
Right-of-Way Management
   
154.01   Standards
   
154.02   Right-of-way management
   
154.03   Technical specifications
   
154.04   Indemnification, insurance, bonding and liability
   
154.05   Variances and exemptions
   
154.06   Certified telecommunications providers
   
154.07   Network providers
   
154.08   Adopting a public right-of-way wireless communications facilities
design manual
   
154.09   Right-of-way management, moving, burning
   
   
154.99   Penalty
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 154.01  STANDARDS.
   (A)   Thoroughfare and circulation design standards. Ordinances concerning
the establishment of engineering design standards and construction design
requirements in effect at the time of adoption of this Code, as amended, are
incorporated by reference as if set forth herein.
   (B)   Construction standards for paving and drainage facilities. Ordinances
concerning general construction standards for o paving and drainage facilities,
in effect at the time of adoption of this Code, as amended, are incorporated by
reference as if set forth herein.
   (C)   Exclusive control of streets. No entity, including other political
subdivisions of the state, may extend a street into the city’s corporate limits
or connect a street to an existing city street without the prior written
approval of the city council.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
§ 154.02  RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Administration. The City Manager, or his/her designee, shall act as
the City Right-of-Way Manager, who is the principal city official responsible
for the administration of the right-of-way, right-of”way permits, the
regulation of same and ordinances  related thereto. The City Manager may
delegate any or all of the duties hereunder.
   (B)   Definitions. The following definitions apply in this chapter. The
terms, phrases, words, abbreviations and their derivations shall have the same
meanings herein. When not inconsistent with the context words used in the
present tense include the future; words in plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular include the plural. The word “shall” is
mandatory and not merely permissive.
      ABANDONED FACILITIES.  Facilities no longer in service or physically
disconnected from the operating facilities, or from any other facilities, or
from any other facilities that are in use or that still carry service.
      ADMINISTRATION FEE.  The fee charged by the city to recover its costs
incurred for right-of-way management; including, but not limited to, costs
associated with registering applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying
right-of-way permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration
improvements; determining the adequacy of the right-of-way restoration;
revoking right-of-way permits and other costs the city may incur in
implementing the provisions of this chapter.
      APPLICANT.  An owner or authorized agent of an owner, who submits an
application for a permit under the provisions of this chapter.
      AREA OF INFLUENCE.  That area around a utility excavation where the
pavement and sub-grade is impacted by the excavation and is subject to more
rapid deterioration due to the trench excavation.
      BACKFILL.
         (a)   The placement of new dirt, fill, or other material to refill an
excavation; or
         (b)   The return of excavated dirt, fill or other material to an
excavation.
      CERTIFICATED TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER or “CTP”.  A person who has been
issued a certificate of convenience and necessity, certificate of operating
authority, or service provider certificate of operating authority by the Texas
Public Utility Commission or “PUC” to offer local exchange telephone service or
a person who provides voice service as defined by Texas Local Government Code
Chapter 283 or “the Act”.
      CITY.  The City of Canton, Texas and the city’s officers and employees.
      CITY MANAGER.  The City Manager of the city, or his or her designee.
      CITY PROJECT.  The construction, location, maintenance, relocation,
alteration, improvement, repair, removal or other work performed by the city,
or its designee, in the public right-of-way or on any city utilities or city
facilities.
      CITY UTILITIES.  Any water, sewer or drainage line or services owned and
operated by the city.
      COMPACTION.  Refers to consolidating backfill material in a trench to
prevent future settlement.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.  The city’s comprehensive plan, as it exists or may
be amended.
      CONSTRUCTION.  Boring, the breaking of pavement, or the installation,
modification, upgrade, maintenance, removal, or similar activities, within the
right-of-way. The definition includes, but is not limited to, providing primary
service, restoration, or maintenance of existing facilities within the right-
of-way.
      CONTRACTOR.  Any public or private person, subcontractor or organization,
other than the city.
      DAY.  Business day unless otherwise specified.
      DEPARTMENT.  The city department of public works or a successor
department that is responsible for management of the right-of-way and roadway
infrastructure.
      EMERGENCY OPERATIONS.  Those operations and repairs necessary to prevent
damage or injury to the health or safety of the public or any person and the
work necessary to address or prevent an immediate service interruption.
Upgrading of facilities, new service installation and neighborhood improvement
projects are not EMERGENCY OPERATIONS.
      EXCAVATION.  Any activity that removes or otherwise disturbs soil,
pavement, driveways, curbs, or sidewalks in the right-of-way and does not
include landscaping activity unless the activity removes or disturbs the paved
portion of the right-of-way.
      FACILITIES.  The equipment, and property, including but not limited to,
lines, poles, mains, pipes, conduits, ducts, valves, manholes, handholes and
wires located under, on, or above the surface of the ground within the right-
of-way, and related facilities and equipment used or useful for the provision
of utility services.
      FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission.
      GOVERNING BODY.  The mayor and the city council of the City of Canton,
Texas.
      GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY.  Any county, township, city, town, village, school
district, library district, road district, drainage or levee district, sewer
district, water district, fire district or other municipal corporation, quasi-
municipal corporation or political subdivision of the state or of any other
state of the United States and any agency or instrumentality of the state or of
any other state of the United States.
      HOLIDAY.  Days in which city offices are closed in observance of a
holiday.
      MAIN LINE.  Lines other than service connections used to convey the
right-of-way user’s product.
      MAJOR PROJECT.  Any project, which includes 300 or more linear feet of
excavation or any excavation under pavement.
      NETWORK NODE.  Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications ‘between user equipment and a communication network.
      NETWORK PROVIDER.  A wireless service provider, or a person that does not
provide wireless services and that is not an electric utility but builds or
installs, on behalf of a wireless service provider, network nodes or node
support poles or any other structure that supports or is capable of supporting
a network node.
      PAVEMENT.  Streets containing Portland cement, asphalt, brick or other
rigid or semi-rigid material that covers the surface of a street and their
underlying subgrade and base.
      PERMIT.  A permit issued under this chapter authorizing excavation in the
right-of-way.
      PERMITTEE.  Any person or right-of-way user to whom a permit is issued to
excavate a right-of-way.
      PERPENDICULAR EXCAVATIONS.  Any trench with a centerline that when
projected toward the centerline of the street, the two lines intersect at an
angle of 90 degrees.
      PERSON.  Any person, company, partnership, contractor, subcontractor,
agency or other public or private entity, excepting the city.
      PUBLIC INCONVENIENCE PENALTY.  A penalty assessed to the right-of-way
user who denies the public the use of public property for a time period greater
than allowed by this chapter.
      PUCT.  The Public Utility Commission of Texas.
      REGISTRATION.  The annual application process of the right-of-way user to
use any portion of the right-of-way.
      REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.  The document provided by the city, annually;
upon approval of the application for registration.
      REPAIR.  The temporary or permanent construction work necessary to make
the right-of-way useable.
      REPAIR AREA.  That area around excavation where the pavement and subgrade
is impacted by an excavation.
      RESTORATION.  The process by which an excavated right-of-way and
surrounding area, including, but not limited to, pavement and foundation
structures, ground cover, landscaping, and monuments are returned to the same
condition, or better than that which existed before the commencement of the
work.
      RESURFACING.  Any repaving, overlay, seal or reconstruction which creates
a new pavement surface over the entire width of the street, excluding  crack
seals and localized base and pavement repairs.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY or PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The surface of, and the space above
and below, any street road, highway, freeway, tollway, lane, path, drainageway,
channel, fee interest, public way or place, sidewalk, alley: boulevard,
parkway, drive, fire lane or other easement now or hereafter held by the city
or over which the city exercises any rights of management or control and shall
include, but not be limited to, all easements now held, or hereafter held, by
the city, but shall specifically excludes private property.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY USER.  A person, its successors and assigns, that uses the
right-of-way for purposes of work, excavation, provision of services, or
installing, constructing, maintaining, or repairing facilities thereon,
including, but not limited to, landowners and service providers.
      ROUTINE SERVICE OPERATION.  A work activity that makes no material change
to the facilities and does not disrupt traffic.
      SERVICE.  A commodity provided to a person by means of a delivery system
that is comprised of facilities located or to be located in the right-of-way,
including, but not limited to, gas, telephone, cable television, Internet
services, open video systems, alarm systems, steam, electric, water, telegraph,
data transmission, petroleum pipelines, or sanitary sewage.
      SERVICE CONNECTION.  The line that serves no more than two individual
customers or two meter banks.
      STREET.  The paved portion of the right-of-way, whether fee or easement,
that has been constructed, reconstructed, or resurfaced with concrete or
asphalt or some other surface.
      SURFACE MOUNTED MARKERS.  Any sign, post or other marker, which rises
above the surface of the ground to show the location of an underground utility.
      THOROUGHFARE.  All roadways and streets classified on the city’s 
comprehensive plan, as it exists or may be amended, including but not limited
to as a highway, tollway, major thoroughfare, minor thoroughfare, major
collector, minor collector or local collector.
      TMUTCD.  The Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as it
exists or may be amended.
      TRAFFIC CONTROL REPRESENTATIVE.  The designated representative of the
right-of-way user who is responsible for work zone safety and compliance with
TMUTCD. The right-of-way user shall ensure such person has adequate training,
knowledge and authority to perform the responsibilities listed above.
      TRANSPORT FACILITY.  Each transmission path physically within a public
right-of-way, extending with a physical line from a network node directly to
the network, for the purpose of providing backhaul for network nodes.
      TRENCH.  Excavation deeper than 12 inches. This shall include linear
trenches, holes, pits and the like.
      UNDERGROUND FACILITY DAMAGE PROTECTION SAFETY ACT.  The Texas Utilities
Code §§ 251.001 et seq. as it exists or may be amended.
      UTILITY.  Any privately or publicly owned entity which uses right-of-way
to furnish the public any general public service, including, without
limitation, sanitary sewer, gas, electricity, water, telephone, petroleum
products, telegraph, heat, steam or chilled water, together with the-
equipment, structures, and appurtenances belonging to such entity and located
within and near the right-of-way, Poles are regulated herein only as
specifically set forth in this chapter.
      WHITE LINING.  Marking the excavation site with white washable marking
paint or flags prior to requesting a utility location in order to further
identify the site.
      WIRELESS SERVICE.  Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless
spectrum, including the use of wi-fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided to the public using a network node.
      WIRELESS SERVICE PROVIDER.  A person that provides wireless services to
the public.
   (C)   Utility Coordinator. Each utility and right-of-way user shall name a
utility coordinator who shall be the representative and point of contact for
all communications from the city and who shall meet with the City Manager or
Right-of-Way Manager when so requested.
   (D)   Field utility coordination.
      (1)   (a)   The right-of-way user shall notify the department at each of
the following times during a project:
            1.   Forty-eight hours before the start of construction;
            2.   Upon completion of the initial backfill; and
            3.   Upon completion of the project.
         (b)   The right-of-way user shall make a request for a utility locate
in compliance with the Underground Facility Damage Prevention and Safety Act.
      (2)   The use of markers, stakes, poles, barricades or other devices
shall be used in such a way to avoid damage to adjoining property. The use of 
‘non-washable” markers is prohibited.
      (3)   Compliance with the Texas Utilities Code, as amended, is required
at all times.
      (4)   All barricades, plates, cones, traffic directional equipment and
all other traffic control devices leased or used by the right-of-way user and
used on or near any excavation shall be clearly and visibly marked with the
name of the permittee and/or right-of-way user or subcontractor, as applicable,
at all times such equipment is used on or near the right-of-way. An exception
to the marking requirement may be made in the sole discretion of the City
Manager in the event the traffic control equipment is not owned by the
permittee or right-of-way user.
   (E)   Maps and records of registrants.
      (1)   Within 30 days of passage of this chapter, each right-of-way user
shall provide the city an accurate map of their service area. The map shall be
in electronic format overlaid over the Van Zandt County and East Texas Council
of Governments digital map, as applicable. In dual coverage areas, the city may
request additional information to enable identification of right-of-way users.
      (2)   Each right of-way user must maintain accurate maps and records of
its facilities. If available, the city’s road network may be provided in
digital format upon request. The right-of-way user is encouraged to maintain
their system maps geo-referenced to the city’s geodetic network, which is on
the Van Zandt County digital map or the East Texas Council of Governments
digital map, as applicable. The map should include true bearings and distances
to the nearest established street lines and official monuments, which shall be
accurately described on the map. The right-of-way user will provide the city
with digital information within 90 days of a request for maps from the city for
any user with less than 50 miles of utilities within the city. All other  users
shall provide the digital information within one year of the request.
Thereafter, the data is to be provided to the city on an annual basis by
January 1.
      (3)   If the maps and records submitted in response to any request by or
requirement of the city include information expressly designated by the right-
of-way user as a trade secret or other confidential information protected from
disclosure by state law, the city and its agents, employees, or other
representatives may not disclose that information to the public without the
consent of the right-of-way user unless otherwise compelled by an opinion of
the attorney general pursuant to the Texas Public Information Act as amended,
or by a court having jurisdiction of the matter pursuant to applicable law.
This subsection may not be construed to authorize a right-of-way user to
designate all matters in its maps and records as confidential or as trade
secrets.
   (F)   Notice. Notice for purposes of this chapter shall be made to the city
via electronic message (e-mail), overnight courier (generally used carrier with
tracing available) or hand delivery with signed receipt, facsimile to the
department, or United States mail return receipt required.
   (G)   Registration.
      (1)   Nothing in this section relieves a right-of-way user and/or utility
from obtaining a permit under this chapter to perform work in the right-of-way.
      (2)   In order to protect the public health, safety, and welfare, a
utility maintaining or operating existing facilities in the right-of-way must
register with the City Manager in accordance with the following requirements:
         (a)   The registration must be on a form furnished by the City Manager
and made in the name of the right-of-way user that owns the facilities.
         (b)    Registration expires December 31 of the following year after
the first registration occurs. If the utility fails to renew registration by
that date, the city will send by certified mail a notice of noncompliance to
the address listed on the registration. If the utility fails to renew
registration within 30 calendar days after the date of sending the
notification, the facilities of the utility will be deemed to have been legally
abandoned.
         (c)   If information provided as part of the registration changes, the
utility must inform the City Manager, in writing, not more than 30 days after
the date the change occurs.
         (d)   The utility shall also include the following registration:
            1.   The name of the utility using the right-of-way, including any
business name, assumed name, or trade name the utility operates under or has
operated under in the city within the past five years.
            2.   If the utility is a CTP, the certificate number issued by the
Texas Public Utility Commission.
            3.   The ordinance number of any franchise or license issued by the
city that authorizes the utility to use the right-of-way.
            4.   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of at least two
persons who will be general, day-to-day contacts for the utility. At least one
of the addresses must be within Van Zandt County or a county contiguous to Van
Zandt County.
            5.   The name and mailing address of the officer or agent
designated as the person authorized to receive service of process on behalf of
the utility.
            6.   The name, address and telephone number of any contractor or
subcontractor, who will be working in the right-of-way on behalf of the
utility. This list may be amended as needed by the utility; however, no work
shall be performed in the right-of-way by a contractor or subcontractor that is
not on the list, regardless of whether a permit is required.
            7.   The names and telephone numbers of at least two persons
serving as emergency contacts who can be reached by telephone 24 hours a day,
seven days a week. The telephone numbers should be accessible without the city
having to pay long distance telephone or tole charge.
   (H)   Traffic handling training. The right-of-way user is responsible for
work zone safety including, but not limited to, traffic control through the
designated traffic control representative. The representative is responsible
for compliance with the TMUTCD and the traffic control plan (if required) at
all work zone Sites. The traffic control representative shall ensure employees
on the job site have adequate training.
   (I)   Reporting obligations. All right-of-way users shall, upon request,
provide proof of any necessary permit, license, certification, grant, franchise
agreement or any other authorization required by any governmental entity,
including, but not limited to, the city, state, or federal government, or
railroad or pipeline company, including a description of the right-of-way
user’s intended use of the right-of-way, information sufficient to determine
whether the right-of-way user is subject to franchising or licensing by the
city, and information to determine whether the right-of-way user has applied
for and received any certificate of authority required by the PUCT. The
information provided shall be sufficient enough to determine whether the right-
of-way user has applied for and received any permit or other approvals required
by the FCC. Right-of-way user shall provide all such other information as may
be reasonably required by the city to complete the registration statement.
   (J)   Surface mounted markers. Where surface mounted markers are needed,
curb mounted medallions shall  be used whenever possible.
   (K)   Relocation of facilities for city projects and public improvements.
      (1)   In the exercise of governmental functions, the city has first
priority over all uses of the right-of-way. The city reserves the right to,
among other things, lay water, sewer, drainage, and other pipelines or cables
and conduits, and to do underground and overhead work, and attachments,
restructuring, or changes in street facilities in across, along, over, or under
a public street, alley or right-of-way occupied by an agency or right-of-way
user, and to change the sidewalks, or the grade of streets.
      (2)   The right-of-way user must relocate its facilities, at its own
expense and in accordance with Section 175, prior to the start of construction
of a city project. Failure to comply with this provision shall subject the
right-of-way user to the enforcement provisions contained herein.
      (3)   A permit will be required when making facility adjustments in
preparation for city projects.
   (L)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person, its agents, servants
or employees to dig, plow, blast, make cuts, openings, bore, tunnel, excavate
or close lanes on a thoroughfare without first having made application and
obtained a permit therefor in compliance with the Public Right-of-Way
Permitting and Construction Manual, promulgated and amended by the City
Manager, except for as allowed by this section. It is unlawful for any person,
its agents, servants or employees to make or cause to be made any excavation in
or under the surface of any right-of-way for the installation, repair or
removal of any facilities, or for any other purpose without first obtaining
from the City  Manager a permit in compliance with this chapter.
      (1)   Before issuing a permit, the City Manager shall have been provided
a written application, on a form furnished by the City Manager, setting forth
the name and residence or business address of the applicant; the location and
approximate area of the excavation, including its approximate length and width,
and, if the excavation is in a street, whether it is parallel or transverse to
the direction of the travel lanes; and, the purpose of the excavation. The
application form shall include plans prepared in accordance with city
specifications. Plans shall be drawn at a reasonable scale that legibly and
accurately show all existing  improvements and proposed work. All proposed work
must be shown in heavy or bold type lines and fonts. If proposed work is in
phases or part of another overall drawing, show all existing and future work in
lighter or faded out lines and fonts. If right-of-way user cannot show
distinctive line weights, the plans shall clearly label the above information
using text. When required by the Texas Engineering Practice Act, as amended,
the plans must be sealed by a professional engineer licensed to practice in the
state.
      (2)   At the time the permit is issued, the applicant shall pay a
nonrefundable permit application fee in an amount as provided for in the master
fee schedule of the city.
      (3)   The proposed location, depth and other characteristics of any
facilities for which the permit is issued shall be subject to approval of the
City Manager, and all backfilling, compaction and pavement restoration
performed for any excavation shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   No fee or requirement authorized or imposed pursuant to this
chapter shall be construed to affect or alter in any way any obligation of
public and/or private utilities with facilities installed in any right-of-way
to relocate the facilities, at no cost to the city, subject to state law, if
applicable, in the event that relocation is required by the city to 
accommodate a proper governmental use of the right-of-way.
      (5)   Combinations of permits shall be permitted at the sole discretion
of the City Manager. Fees shall be assessed based on the excavations permitted.
      (6)   Subdivision monuments, historical markers, and any other signs or
structures with foundations in the right-of-way, excluding billboards, are
subject to this chapter.
   (M)   Exceptions to required permit.
      (1)   The City Manager reserves the right in his or her discretion to
require a right-of-way permit on service connections.  Unless otherwise
required by the City Manager, service connections do not require a permit if
all of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The service connection excavation shall not exceed four feet
inside the right-of-way to property line;
         (b)   All excavation shall be in accordance with service connection
drawings;
         (c)   The address for the service connection is on the city provided 
form, which is submitted to the City Manager via e-mail, Work shall not begin
until the electronic form is transmitted to the City Manager;
         (d)   The excavation required is less than 12 inches in depth;
         (e)   The excavation is no wider than two inches or is hand dug; and
         (f)   The service connection does not require boring.
      (2)   Irrigation system installation requires a permit per existing city
codes.
   (N)   Permit application.
      (1)   Application for a permit shall be addressed to the City Manager and
made on a form furnished for that purpose, stating the extent, dimensions,
character and purpose of the cut or excavation to be made, the location, by
street and number if possible, where the work is to be done, and the time in
which it is to be completed. The application form shall be accompanied by maps
of the existing facilities in the area, to the extent available, and the
location of the proposed facilities, methodology of construction, and proposed
start and completion dates. When the work includes excavating, which will
exceed five feet in depth, a trench safety design sealed by a licensed
professional engineer shall also accompany the application, unless otherwise
provided by law.
      (2)   A permit shall only be valid for the area of the right-of-way
specified within the permit. No permittee may cause any work to be done outside
the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any permittee who
determines that an area is greater than that which is specified in the permit
must apply for and receive a new right-of-way permit.
      (3)   Fees shall apply to all right-of-way users unless governed by an
existing agreement with the city. Applicants may apply jointly for permits to
excavate the right-of-way at the same time and place. Applicants who apply
jointly for a right-of-way permit may share in the payment of the permit fee.
Applicants must agree among themselves as to the portion each shall pay. The
city will recognize only one point of contact.
      (4)   Permits will be issued or denied within ten days of the city
receiving  a complete application. Permits shall be valid for the dates
specified in the permit. The applicant may request but is not guaranteed the
permit be valid for such longer period as may be necessary in the
circumstances, in advance, as part of the application. The city may approve or
deny the application for such extended permit period. No permittee may commence
work before the permit start date and, except as provided herein, no permittee
may continue working after the end date. If a permittee does not complete the
work by the permit end date,  the permittee must apply for and may receive a
new right-of-way permit or a permit extension for additional time. This
supplementary application must be submitted to the city prior to the permit end
date. Applicants are encouraged to request a pre-submission meeting for large
projects.
      (5)   An expedited permit may be requested, and shall be issued or denied
within five days of application upon a showing of good cause, as solely
determined by the City Manager.
   (O)   Issuance of permit. Every person making application for a permit in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, and having complied with such
provisions, shall be entitled thereto, and, upon fifing such application with
the City Manager, it shall be his or her duty to issue the permit, when the
provisions of this chapter have been complied with.
      (1)   Upon receiving a written application for a permit and a plan
prepared in accordance with the city specifications, the City Manager’s
designee shall set forth all requirements, approve or disapprove the
application, sign and return it to applicant. Excepting only emergency
excavations, at least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the start of work, the
applicant shall notify the City Manager the date the work will commence when
traffic control devices are necessary on a thoroughfare.
      (2)   No permit shall be transferable. A permit shall be void unless the
excavation to be made pursuant thereto is commenced within the time stated
therein and the work diligently completed.
      (3)   Each permit shall state a time period for completion of all the
work to be done hereunder. The City Manager may in his sole discretion, grant
extensions of time.
      (4)   No person in violation of any requirement of this chapter shall be
issued an excavation permit, nor shall any contractor or agent apply for or be
issued a permit on the person’s behalf, until the outstanding violation is/are
corrected or a plan for correction is approved by the City Manager. The
foregoing requirement is in addition to any penalty or remedy for violation
that may be imposed or sought by the city at law or equity.
      (5)   No work shall be done under any permit issued under this chapter
except as stated in the permit If the permit is allowed to expire, the right-
of-way user shall procure a new permit, paying the applicable fee, prior to
proceeding with any such work.
   (P)   posting of signs. The right-of-way user and contractor (if used) shall
be identified by three feet by three feet information signs on all work
requiring a permit. The signs shall state the name and phone number of the
right-of-way user and contractor (if used). The signs shall be placed in the
right-of-way on each approach to the  location where construction is occurring
from the time of the beginning of work in the right-of-way and shall continue
to be posted at the location during the entire time the work is occurring.
   (Q)   Excavation to be under supervision of the City Manager.
      (1)   Any right-of-way user engaged in making or backfilling any
excavation in any right-of-way shall, at all times while such work is in
progress, keep  at the job location the permit, or a copy thereof, and shall
provide of the same, when requested by any authorized city employee. At all
times while the work is in progress, the right-of-way user shad also maintain,
at the job location, a sign, barricade or other device bearing the right-of-way
user’s name.
      (2)   the right-of-way user shall protect from damage, utility conduits,
sewer conduits, water conduits, lawns, shrubbery, trees, fences, structures,
irrigation, sidewalks, streets, signs; street lights, or other property at,
near or encountered in its work. The right-of-way user shall determine the
boundary of the right-of-way.
      (3)   All excavations and other construction in the streets shall be
conducted so as to interfere as little as practicable with the use of right-of-
way and with the use of private property, in accordance with any lawful and
reasonable direction given by or under the authority of the governing body of
the city pursuant to the policy and regulatory powers of the city necessary to
provide for public convenience. The right-of-way user shall  not trespass upon
private property, The right-of-way user shall determine the boundary between
right-of-way and private property and place stakes/markers indicating the
boundary to remain in place for the duration of the work.
      (4)   The city reserves the right to among others, lay, and allow to be
laid electricity, sewer, gas, water and other pipe lines or cables and
facilities, as well as drainage pipes, and channels and streets, and to
perform, and allow to be performed, any underground and overhead installation
or improvement that may be deemed necessary or proper by the governing body of
the city, in, across, along, over or under any right-of-way or public place
occupied by a right-of-way user and to change any curb or sidewalk or the grade
of any street and to maintain all of the city’s facilities. In allowing such
work to be performed by others, the city shall not be liable to a right-of-way
user for any damage caused by those persons or entities. Nothing herein shall
relieve any third party from responsibility for damages caused to a right-of-
way user by such third party.
      (5)   All transmission and distribution lines, equipment and facilities
erected by a right-of-way user within the city shall be so located as to cause
minimum interference with the proper use of the right-of-way, and to cause
minimum interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property
owners who join any of said streets. No pole may be placed in an area
prohibited by another section of this chapter or which interferes with the
public’s unimpeded use of the right-of-way.
      (6)   If the city requires a right-of-way user to adapt or conform its
facilities, or in any way or manner to alter, relocate or change its property
to enable any other corporation or person, except the city, to use, or to use
with greater convenience, any right-of-way or public place, the right-of-way
user shall not be required to make any such changes until such other
corporation or person shall have undertaken, with solvent bond, to reimburse a
right-of-way user for any loss and expense which will be caused by, or arise
out of such removal, change, adaptation, alteration, conformance or relocation
of a right-of-way user’s facilities; provided, however, that the city shall
never be liable for such reimbursement.
   (R)   Registration certificate required. It is unlawful for any person, its
agents, servants or employees to perform construction in the right-of-way
without first having made either application and obtained a permit therefor or
have in possession a valid registration certificate. A registration certificate
may only be used for construction activities not requiring a permit in
accordance with this chapter. These activities include tree trimming, general
maintenance, line work and providing a service connection from the property
line to a customer provided the activity complies with § 154.03(D).
   (S)   Hours of operation for nonemergency work.
      (1)   Excavation and boring shall be conducted between 7:00 a.m. and 30
minutes before sundown on Monday through Friday, except on holidays. No
excavation or boring shall be performed on holidays.
      (2)   All other work requiring an inspection shall be done between 7:00
a.m. and 30 minutes before sundown on Monday through Friday, except on
holidays. No work shall be performed on holidays. A right-of  way user may work
on Saturday subject to the approval of the City Manager and a notification no
later than noon on Thursday before the Saturday in which the work is to be
performed. The Saturday inspection fee must be paid prior to noon on Thursday
prior to the Saturday in which the work is to be performed.
   (T)   Denial of permit. A permit may be denied or suspended for any of the
following reasons:
      (1)   Failure to provide proof of a surety bond or liability insurance
acceptable to the city or notice of termination of the same.
      (2)   Failure to secure a contractor’s license or other required license.
      (3)   Failure to perform in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (4)   The excavation would be in a street and not otherwise permitted by
this chapter.
      (5)   The proposed warning or other traffic control procedures or
equipment do not comply with the requirements of the TMUTCD or the requirements
of the City Manager.
      (6)   The proposed activity would violate any city ordinance or state or
federal law, rule, regulation or statute.
      (7)   The permit application contains false or misleading information.
      (8)   The activity would cause a public health or safety hazard.
      (9)   The right-of-way user is not authorized within the city.
      (10)    The right-of-way user is in violation of this chapter relative to
work in progress.
      (11)   The right-of-way user has not compensated the city, unless the
user is not legally obligated to compensate the city by contract, by agreement
or by law, for using the public property; or the right-of-way user has failed
to timely make required payments.
   (U)   Appeal. A right-of-way user that: (i) has been denied registration;
(ii) has been denied a permit; (iii) has had a permit revoked; or (iv) believes
that fees imposed are invalid, may have the denial, revocation, or fee
imposition reviewed, upon written request as follows:
      (1)   If an applicant desires to appeal a decision, the applicant may
file a written notice of appeal with the City Manager within five business days
of the date the decision was rendered. The notice must state the alternatives
available and routes explored, hardship encountered, cost comparison of other
alternatives and a statement of any other significant factors. The City Manager
shall provide a written decision within five business days. Failure to render a
decision within five business days shall constitute a denial.
      (2)   If a further denial is given, the appellant may thereafter file a
written  notice of appeal to the City Manager within five business days of
receipt of the City Manager’s written decision, The City Manager shall provide
a written decision within five business days of receipt of an appeal in
accordance with this section. Failure to render a decision within five business
days shall constitute a denial.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
§ 154.03  TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Lawful use of right-of-way.
      (1)   The use of the right-of-way in any manner which violates federal,
state, or local laws, or city codes, ordinances and regulations, including,
without limitation, those relating to health, safety, noise, environmental
protection, waste disposal and water and air quality, is prohibited. All
permittees shall provide satisfactory evidence of compliance with the foregoing
upon request of the city.
      (2)   The permittee shall dispose of all material removed from the right-
of  way and any waste created by permittee in compliance with all state,
federal and local laws and requirements. Temporary storage of material may be
placed in a pile no higher than 30 inches.
      (3)   If a permittee excavates any contaminated, regulated or hazardous
materials in the right-of-way, such permittee shall be responsible for
environmental assessment, excavation, testing, transportation and disposal of
that material in accordance with applicable law. The permittee shall promptly
notify the city, orally, of the condition within two hours of discovery of any
contaminated, regulated or hazardous materials in the right-of-way, and within
eight hours provide the aforementioned information to the city in writing. The
permittee must consult with and receive written authorization from the city
before  undertaking any of the steps/actions set forth in this subsection.
   (B)   Compliance with safety regulations. The permittee and right-of-way
user shall comply with all applicable federal, state and local safety
regulations and requirements, including, by example and not limitation, the
occupational safety and health standards for the construction industry.
   (C)   Conformance with the thoroughfare plan. A right-of-way user should
consult the city’s thoroughfare plan prior to the acquisition of any interest
in real property in the city for the installation or relocation of service
lines or other equipment or facilities along or adjacent to any street, right-
of-way, thoroughfare, highways or any proposed street, right-of-way, highway or
thoroughfare to attempt to minimize any future  conflict regarding the location
of such facilities. All right-of-way users are charged at all times with
constructive notice of the thoroughfare plan. The city shall, at a minimum,
have no liability for the valued or loss by a right-of-way user of any
improvements constructed in the area shown on the thoroughfare plan, except as
provided herein. Typical locations of city facilities are depicted in the city
standard details.
   (D)   Tree trimming and graffiti abatement. Permission is granted to a
right-of-way user, subject to the requirements of this code, as it exists or
may be amended from time to time, to trim trees upon and overhanging the so as
to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact with a right-of-
way user’s facilities. When so directed by the city, the tree trimming shall be
done under the supervision and direction of the city. The right-of-way user
shall make the necessary repairs or restoration, including, but not limited to,
cleaning of graffiti, as soon as practicable but not to exceed seven days after
the right-of-way user discovers or learns of any misuse, destruction, damage or
vandalism to its facilities.
   (E)   Employee communication. The right-of-way user shall ensure that there
is at least one employee on the job site, during-any type of work activity, who
can read, write and speak English fluently.
   (F)   Routing and spatial assignment. The city reserves the right, in the
permit or otherwise, to restrict or determine the route (pathway) and/or
spatial location, whether horizontal, vertical or depth, of any facility and/or
structure or improvement in the right-of-way. The city reserves the right to
reserve space for future utilities.
   (G)   Commencement and completion. After obtaining the permit and prior to
commencing the work, the permittee shall notify the City Manager, and shall
commence and complete all work within the time specified in the permit, unless
an extension of time is granted by the City Manager. No work shall commence
until erosion control measures (e.g. silt fence) and advance warning signs,
markers, cones and barricades are in place.
   (H)   Notification of affected property owners. Except in the case of an
emergency, whenever excavation is required in the  right-of-way adjacent to an
occupied property, the right-of-way user shall notify the property owner of the
activity through use of a door hanger, which shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Permit number;
      (2)   Identify of the contractor and the right-of-way user, including a
contact name and phone number by which more information regarding the project
could be obtained and a 24-hour a day emergency phone number; and
      (3)   The anticipated duration of the construction work.
   (I)   Safe conduct of work. Every permittee and right-of-way user shall
prosecute its work diligently and in a good, safe, and workmanlike manner, and
shall safeguard and protect the public, using the street or right-of-way where
the work is being performed, from accidents or damage by placing barriers,
lights and other sufficient safeguards around all cuts, openings and
excavation, in accordance with TMUTCD. All material, implements and tools
stored upon the premises and used in connection with the excavation shall be
stored in a safe and nonhazardous manner.
   (J)   Revocation or suspension of permit.
      (1)   The city reserves its right, as provided herein, to revoke or
suspend any permit, without refund of the permit fee, in the event of a breach
by the permittee of the terms and/or conditions of the permit, this chapter
and/or any other city ordinance. A breach of the terms of the permit shall
include, but not be limited to any of the following:
         (a)   The violation of any provision of the permit.
         (b)   An evasion or attempt to evade any provision of the permit, or
the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit upon the city or
its citizens.
         (c)   Any material misrepresentation of any fact in the permit
application.
         (d)   The failure to meet insurance, surety bond or indemnification
requirements.
         (e)   The failure to complete the work as specified in the permit.
         (f)   The failure to correct a condition indicated on an order issued
pursuant to this chapter.
         (g)   Repeated traffic control violation(s).
         (h)   Failure to protect facilities or repair facilities damaged in
the right-of-way.
         (i)   Violation of any part of this chapter.
         (j)   Recognition by the City Manager that a permit was issued in
error.
         (k)   Failing to comply with an order of the City Manager on the
permit and any other valid permit held by the right-of-way user.
         (l)   Any safety violation or other action that threatens the health,
welfare and/or safety of the public as solely determined by the City Manager.
      (2)   If the City Manager determines that the permittee has committed a
breach of any law or condition of the right-of-way permit, the City Manager
shall make a written demand upon the o permittee to remedy such violation,
Continued violation may be cause for revocation of the permit or legal action,
or both. The City Manager may, in his or her discretion, revoke the permit,
provide specifications to cure the breach, or both. Within two business days of
receiving notification of the breach, permittee shall contact the City Manager
with a plan, acceptable to the City Manager, for correction of the breach.
Permittee’s failure to do so or permittee’s failure to timely implement the
approved plan shall be cause for revocation of the permit.
   (K)   Work not in accordance with permit declared unlawful.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, cause or allow to be
made, any excavation, or to install, cause or allow to be installed any tank,
pipe, conduit, duct, tunnel, utility pole or other utility or appliance in or
under the surface of any street, alley, sidewalk, right-of-way or other public
place, at any location, other than that described in the application for the
permit and as shown on the plans filed with the City Manager, and in accordance
with the requirements of the permit. If the circumstances appearing after the
excavation is commenced make it impossible to comply with the permit, the City
Manager may, in his or her sole discretion, grant a waiver to take the
circumstances into account.
      (2)   Failure to comply with requirements set forth in this chapter or on
any permit shall be cause for revocation of the subject permit and of any other
permits held by the same permittee until the violations have been corrected or
the City Manager has approved alternative requirements.
   (L)   Work done without a permit. No cut, excavation, grading or disturbing
of the right-of-way or wires on poles, in any way, shall be made, other than
excavations necessary for  emergency work, without first securing a permit. No
person or right-of-way user shall, at any time, open or encumber more of the
right-of-way than shall be reasonably necessary to complete a project in the
most expeditious manner.
   (M)   Cessation of work. At any time, the City Manager may order the
immediate cessation of any work that poses a threat to the health, safety or
well-being of the public. The City Manager may revoke the permit of any
permittee tn any instance where there is a threat to the health, safety or well
being of the public.
   (N)   Violations of standards; notice. The City Manager may issue a written
notice to the permittee indicating work that does not conform to the terms of
the permit, applicable standards, conditions, codes or other applicable
regulation. Within five days after issuance of written notice, the permittee
shall present proof to the City Manager that the violation has been corrected.
If such proof has not been presented within the required time, the City Manager
may revoke the permit.
   (O)   Location and relocation of facilities. Subject to applicable federal,
state, and local laws, the right-of-way user shall, upon the request of the
city, which shall be in writing, locate and/or  relocate its facilities
situated within any right-of-way, at no expense to the city, where reasonable
and necessary to accommodate any city project. The written request provided by
the city shall state the date by which the relocation by the right-of-way user
shall be completed and a reasonable amount of time shall be provided by the
city. When relocation is necessitated by federal government requirements, which
includes reimbursements of costs, the city will reimburse applicant for its
proportionate share from funds provided to the city in such reimbursements.
   (P)   Relocation facilities for the city. In the event the city finds it
necessary to move a right-of-way user’s facilities to protect the right-of-way,
any city utilities and/or street, the city shall notify the local
representative of the right-of-way user. Right-of-way user shall promptly move
or facilitate the relocation of the subject facilities at right-of-way user’s
sole expense.
   (Q)   Abandoned facilities.
      (1)   A right-of-way user owning abandoned facilities in the right-of-way
shall:
         (a)   Remove its facilities and repair, at its sole expense, any
damage caused by the removal. The City Manager may allow some or all facilities
to remain if the City Manager determines same is in the best interest of the
public to do so; or
         (b)   Provide information satisfactory to the city that the right-of-
way user’s obligations for its facilities in the right-of-way have been
lawfully assumed by another authorized right-of-way user.
      (2)   The facilities of the right-of-way user who fails to comply with
this section, and those facilities which remain unused for two years, shall be
deemed to be abandoned unless, within the aforesaid two-year period, the city
receives written confirmation and reasonable evidence, as solely determined by
city, that the right-of-way user intends to use the facilities. The city may
exercise any remedies and/or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but
not limited to, taking possession of the abandoned facilities or requiring the
removal of the facilities by the right-of-way user at the right-of-way user’s
sole expense.
   (R)   Underground service requirements. Placement of new utility support
structures (poles) shall be prohibited for electrical distribution lines with
60,000 volts and less and all communication utilities, unless otherwise allowed
by other raw or an existing franchise agreement between the right-of-way user
and the city or a PUCT tariff. This does not prohibit replacing existing poles
for maintenance purposes.
   (S)   Location of poles and conduits. All poles in the right-of-way shall be
of sound material and straight, and shall not interfere with the flow of water
in any gutter or drain, and shall be placed so as not to interfere with
vehicular and pedestrian travel. The location and route of all conduits, fiber,
cables, utilities and facilities placed and constructed by a right-of-way user
in the construction and maintenance of its system in the city shall be subject
to the reasonable and proper control, direction and approval of the city.
Placement of poles and anchor guys along curvilinear streets shall comply with
city ordinances and regulations.
   (T)   Size and location of aboveground facilities. The maximum dimensions
for ground mounted utility structures above the ground in the right-of-way
adjacent to streets are seven feet long (parallel to the road), two feet wide
(perpendicular to the road) and six feet in height. For structures three feet
or less in height, the width may be 44 inches. This does not include poles. The
height of utility structures shall be measured from the lowest grade at any
point 18 inches or less from the side of the structure that faces the street to
the highest point of the structure. Utility structures exceeding those
dimensions shall not be located in the right-of-way adjacent to streets, unless
otherwise approved in writing by the City Manager. All aboveground facilities
shall be located outside of the corner visibility triangle at all
intersections, future intersections and all driveways. No aboveground
facilities may be placed in a parkway that is across from a median opening.
   (U)   Height of overhead line. The user shall ensure all overhead lines are
constructed and maintained so that the minimum clearances are in compliance
with the National Electrical Code as it exists or may be amended.
   (V)   Attachments to poles.
      (1)   Nothing shall obligate or restrict a right-of-way user from
exercising its rights to enter into pole attachment, pole usage, joint
ownership or other wire space or facilities agreements with light and/or power
companies or with other wire-using companies authorized to operate within the
city.
      (2)   A right-of-way user shall utilize existing pole conduit, and other 
facilities whenever reasonably and/or economically possible.
      (3)   Antennas must be mounted to the top of the pole, or flush to the
pole near the top, in a screen that is coated or painted an approved color to
match the poke to camouflage the installation.
      (4)   Equipment, other than antennas, must be in an underground vault.
Vaults must be flush to the ground.
      (5)   If the existing pole already has more than two existing risers/
drops, the pole must be replaced with a metal pole and all wires and cables
must be run in conduit inside the pole. The existing drops will also be
relocated inside the new pole and underground entry into the pole through the
foundation is required. When installation will result in two or fewer risers/
drops on the pole, the wires and cable may be installed as a riser/drop in
conduit painted an approved color.
   (W)   Temporary rearrangement of aerial wires. The right-of-way user shall
rearrange its transmission media temporarily as necessary to permit the moving
of houses or other bulky structures. The requesting parties shall, pay the
reasonable and necessary expense of such temporary rearrangements. The right-
of-way user shall in a reasonable time frame and reasonable cost, remove its
transmission media in connection with the demolition of unsafe structures,
including emergency or ordered demolitions at no cost to the city. The right-
of-way user may invoice the requesting parties for the cost of this work, where
applicable.
   (X)   Street closures.
      (1)   All lane closures on any thoroughfare shall comply with TMUTCD, and
shall include a lane closure exhibit to be submitted with the permit to the
City Manager. The City Manager may require a traffic control plan. Arrow boards
and message boards may be required for lane closures on thoroughfares.
      (2)   No work shall be done in the vicinity of the First Monday Trade
Days grounds during the week before or the week after First Monday Trade Days
without the prior approval of the City Manager or his or her designee.
      (3)   Except in an emergency, no thoroughfare shall be closed on weekdays
during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. or
outside normal working hours of the city. Every day of the week, all roadways
shall be open to traffic by sunset on the same day as the construction.
      (4)   All lane closures require 24-hour notification of the police and
fire departments prior to closing.
   (Y)   Site maintenance during construction and prior to full restoration.
      (1)   Erosion control and stormwater management. The right-of-way user
shall be responsible for stormwater management, erosion control and excavation
safety measures that comply with city, state and federal guidelines.
Requirements shall include, but not limited to, construction fencing around any
excavation that will be left overnight, silt fencing in erosion areas until
reasonable vegetation is established, barricade fencing around open holes, and
high erosion areas will require wire backed silt fencing. Upon request of City
Manager, the right-of-way user may be required to furnish documentation
submitted or received from the federal or state government.
      (2)   Dust control. The right-of-way user shall ensure that the work is
conducted and site maintained to minimize blowing dust. At any time dust leaves
the job site so that it is a nuisance, the work will stop until measures can be
taken to eliminate the dust.
      (3)   Traffic control safety. In the event of noncompliance with the
TMUTCD, the right-of-way user shall be notified of the violation. In the event
of continued noncompliance, the City Manager may revoke the permit, in addition
to any other remedies available to the city. At any time the City Manager
determines the work threatens public safety, he or she may take  immediate
action as necessary including, but not limited to, stopping all work, or have a
third party make the repairs at the expense of the applicant.
      (4)   Responsibility for signs, barricades and warning devices. The
right-of-way user working in any right-of-way is responsible for the safe
movement of traffic, both pedestrian and vehicular, through the construction
area. The right-of-way user shall meet all requirements for barricading and
traffic control as specified in the TMUTCD.
         (a)   Only those individuals who are qualified by means of adequate
training in safe traffic control practices and have a basic understanding of
the principles established by applicable standards and regulations, including
without limitation, those in TMUTCD, may place and maintain the traffic control
devices in a construction area.
         (b)   The right-of-way user must either: (i) subcontract the
barricading to a firm specializing in traffic control; or (ii) submit the
qualifications and name of employees to the right-of-way user manager for
approval prior to the work commencing. The right-of-way user must also submit a
traffic control plan for review when required by this chapter. All signs and
barricades must conform to the requirements of the TMUTCD.
         (c)   All barricades, plates, and other traffic control equipment must
conform to TMUTCD specifications and must be inspected and maintained by the
traffic control representative.
         (d)   All barricades, plates and other traffic control equipment must
display accurate and sufficient information including without limitation, the
name of the right-of-way user.
         (e)   Noncompliance with the TMUTCD shall be cited in writing. In the
event of noncompliance after citation, the City Manager may place the necessary
devices as required, and the right-of-way user shall reimburse the city for ail
such expenses as well as $500 for noncompliance. Failure to comply with this
provision may result in denial of application for future permits.
         (f)   All traffic control devices must be removed immediately upon
completion of work.
      (5)   Duty to barricade. At all times during construction activity, the
contractor and/or right-of-way user, as applicable, shall place and maintain
all necessary and proper barriers and other safeguards,  including without
limitation, watchmen certified in accordance with the safety training described
in this chapter, if necessary, upon and around the work and for the prevention
of accidents, and after daylight hours, shall place, maintain and keep suitable
sufficient lights, in accordance with the TMUTCD.
   (Z)   Inspection. The permittee shall make the work site accessible to the
city, and others as authorized by law, for inspection at all reasonable times
during performance of the work.
   (AA)   Materials testing. The city will require testing of materials used in
construction in or near the right-of-way to determine conformance with city
construction specifications, including, but not limited to, compaction tests on
backfill materials, subgrade, aggregate base course, Portland concrete (rigid
pavement), asphaltic concrete (flexible pavement) and other construction
materials as deemed necessary by the city. The right-of-way user shall, at his
or her expense, hire a testing laboratory with current accreditation by the
American Association for Laboratory Accreditation, American Association of
State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) or another nationally
recognized accreditation agency that verifies compliance with ASTM E 329 and
that demonstrates the laboratory’s capabilities to perform applicable ASTM or
AASHTO test procedures, as may be required.
   (BB)   Duties of persons making excavations or creating obstructions. Any
person who shall cause to be made any excavation or obstruction in any street
or right-of-way shall not allow the same to remain there beyond a time
reasonably sufficient for the completion of the work and/or removal of the
obstruction, and shall repair the subject portion of such street and/or right-
of-way so as to restore the same to its condition previous to the making of
such excavation or obstruction. It shall be the duty of such excavators to
protect the area while such condition exists and promptly to repair the same so
as to leave the street or right-of-way in as good condition as before the
excavation.
   (CC)   Emergency excavations. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to
prevent any person maintaining any pipe, conduit or duct in or under any
street, or right-of-way by virtue of any law, article or permit, from making
such excavation as may be necessary for compliance with law or for the
preservation of life or property when the necessity arises, provided that the
person making the excavation shall notify the City Manager within 24 hours.
Except as specifically provided otherwise in this chapter for excavations
authorized by this section the permittee shall be subject to all fees and
requirements of this chapter.
   (DD)   Excavation in streets. Except in case of an emergency there shall be
no excavation in any street without the prior written approval of the City
Manager. Any request for a permit to excavate a street shall include a
description of the proposed work and proposed restoration of the area, as well
as a statement of clear and convincing evidence is provided to the City Manager
as to why alternate procedures cannot or should not be used in lieu of
excavating a street. All  pavement cuts and repairs shall be performed by a
contractor with experience in street repair work. Any damage to pavement
outside the removal area shall also be repaired subject to approval of the City
Manager.
      (1)   Excavation in Portland cement concrete (PCC) pavement surface. If
the existing pavement is PCC, the concrete shall be cut first with a saw to a
depth of the full the thickness of the concrete or 6 inches, whichever is
greater, and the full width of the trench, which shall also cut any reinforcing
steel. A second cut shall be 12 inches parallel to the first cut to full
thickness of the concrete and excavated to undisturbed soil. Further criteria
is set forth in the city’s standard details.
      (2)   Excavation in hot mix asphalt concrete HMAC pavement surface. If
the existing pavement is HMAC, the HMAC shall be cut first with a saw to a
depth of the full thickness of the pavement or 6 inches, whichever is greater,
and the full width of the trench, which shall also cut any reinforcing steel. A
second cut shall be 12 inches parallel to the first cut to full thickness of
the pavement and excavated to undisturbed soil. Further criteria is set forth
in the city’s standard details.
      (3)   Jacking and boring. A permittee or right-of-way user shall perform
all work in conformance with methods approved by the city and in such a manner
as to not interfere or disturb existing or planned infrastructure.
      (4)   Responsibility of excavated area maintenance. A permittee or right-
of-way user shall warrant and be responsible for its repairs in the right-of-
way for two years from the completion date of any repair.
   (EE)   Backfill of excavated area.
      (1)   Open trenches may be temporarily backfilled for the convenience of
the permittee or the public safety. Traffic bearing plates can be used
temporarily in conformance with city requirements. At least one hour prior to
beginning permanent backfill operations, the permittee shall notify the City
Manager of the time the backfill will begin.
      (2)   All excess water and mud shall be removed from the trench prior to
backfilling. Any backfill placed during a rainy period or at other times, where
excess water cannot be prevented from entering the trench, will be considered
temporary and shall be removed as soon as weather permits. All disturbed base
material or any base that has been undermined shall be removed and discarded.
Compaction of all backfill shall be 95% of maximum density with a moisture
content of minus 2% to plus 4% of optimum moisture content as determined by
ASTM D698 under or near paved surfaces, future paved surfaces or otherwise as
determined by City Manager. Outside of pavement surfaces, compaction of all
backfill shall be 95% of maximum density with a moisture content of minus 2% to
plus 4% of optimum moisture content as determined by ASTM D698, and be
smoothed, raked, and topsoil and grass or other landscaping installed to match
the surrounding conditions.
   (FF)   Right-of-way restoration requirements.
      (1)   The work to be done pursuant to the permit and any repair and/or
subsequent restoration of the right-of-way must be completed within the dates
specified in the permit. In the event of circumstances beyond the control of
the permittee or when work is prohibited by unseasonable or unreasonable
conditions, the City Manager may, in his or her sole discretion, extend the
dates on receipt of a substantiated supplementary application for a permit
extension.
      (2)   All earth, materials, sidewalk, pavement, utilities, conduits,
crossing, irrigation, landscaping, monuments, manhole covers, valve covers,
meter box lids or improvements of any kind, which are owned or possessed by the
city, and damaged, disturbed, or removed by a right-of-way user shall be fully
repaired promptly by the right-of-way user, at its sole expense, to the
reasonable satisfaction of the City Manager with material approved by the city.
      (3)   After any excavation, the right-of-way user shall, at its expense,
restore the right-of-way, trench envelope, pavement structure and the
surrounding area, to the same or better condition than it was prior to the
excavation. The restoration shall be made in accordance with specifications set
forth herein, and the repair shall be covered by a maintenance bond for two
years from the completion date of any repair.
      (4)   In the event the right-of-way user fails to restore the right-of-
way in the manner and to the condition required herein, or fails to
satisfactorily and/or timely complete all restoration, the city may, at its
option, serve written notice upon the right-of-way user that, unless within
five days after serving of such notice a satisfactory arrangement can be made
for the proper restoration of the right-of-way by the right-of-way user, the
city may take over the work and prosecute same to completion, by contract or
otherwise, at the sole expense of the right-of-way user, and right-of-way user,
and its surety, shall be liable to the city for any and all cost incurred by
the city by reason of such prosecution an completion including, without
limitation, the applicable public inconvenience penalty. Nothing contained
herein shall limit any other remedies available to the city.
      (5)   If any excavation cannot be backfilled immediately, the right-of-
way user shall securely and adequately cover the excavation and maintain proper
barricades, safety fencing and/or lights as required, from the time of the
opening of the excavation until the excavation is surfaced and opened for
travel.
      (6)   In all right-of-way restoration, the right-of-way user guarantees
its work and shall maintain it two years from the date of completion of any
restoration. During the period following completion, the right-of-way user
shall, in the event of any failure of the restoration, and upon notification
from the City Manager, reimburse the city for pavement restoration costs as
provided for in this chapter. Additionally, the right-of-way user, in the event
of such failure, shall within 48 hours of notice from the city, repair the
subject trench envelope.
      (7)   The two-year guarantee period shall be applicable to, among others,
failure of the pavement surface as well as failure of the trench envelope.
Notwithstanding remediation of the pavement structure by the city, the right-
of-way user retains repair responsibility at all times during the guarantee
period for the trench envelope. In locations where two or more right-of-way
users have made repairs in the exact same location, the last right-of-way user
to excavate shall be responsible for the two-year guarantee in that location,
unless the City Manager determines, in his or her sole discretion that a
failure was most likely a result of work performed by another right-of-way
user. That right-of-way user shall be responsible for the two-year maintenance
period.
      (8)   All street excavations shall be perpendicular excavations, as 
possible, unless otherwise approved by the City Manager. Excavations in
streets, which are not perpendicular excavations, require block-to  block and
curb-to-curb pavement reconstruction or other method of repair approved by the
City Manager. All repairs shall be equal or better than that which existed
prior to the commencement of any work.
      (9)   No trench shall be opened for the purpose of laying pipes, conduits
or ducts for a distance greater than can be backfilled on the same workday
before sunset. Any variance from this requirement must be granted in writing
from the City Manager prior to work beginning.
   (GG)   Restoration of pavement. Unless otherwise specified in the permit,
restoration of the pavement of any street, alley, right-of-way or other public
place shall be performed by the permittee.
      (1)   No trench shall be opened in any street for the purpose of laying
pipes, conduits or ducts more than 200 feet in advance of the pipe, conduit or
ducts being placed in the trench, other than with the prior written consent of
the City Manager.
      (2)   All excavations shall comply with the city construction standards,
as amended, and requirements of this chapter. Unless otherwise required by city
standards, as amended, or if unusual conditions are encountered, the City
Manager may require new standards for compaction, backfill and pavement
restoration.
      (3)   Any excavated pavement, debris and/or other rubble shall be
removed, together with any surplus material, within one working day from the
time such material is placed upon the street. After backfilling is completed,
and prior to repaving the cut, the right-of-way user shall remove all loose
paving material and trim the edges of the excavation at the street surface to
the satisfaction of the City Manager.
      (4)   Whenever any caving occurs in the sidewalks of any excavation, the
pavements above such caving shall be cut away, trench backfilled, compacted and
sidewalk pavement restored. In no case sham any side or lateral tamping fill
any void under a pavement.
   (HH)   Permanent pavement repairs. The right-of-way user will maintain the
excavated area until permanent pavement restoration of the excavated area is
complete. The right-of-way user shall make the final repairs within seven days
on thoroughfares that are classified as major and within 30 days on
residential, local and alley streets  after the City Manager makes final
inspection. Backfill failures shall remain the responsibility of the right-of-
way user.
   (II)   Substandard repair of pavement of right-of-way. In case the pavement
or the surface of the street, alley, or right-of-way in, over or near any
excavation should become depressed, cracked or broken  at any time or fails in
any way at any time after the excavation has been made and during the two-year
warranty, the right-of-way user shall comply with any applicable obligations of
this chapter; including, without limitation, reimbursement to the city of the
cost to restore the street and/or right-of-way.
   (JJ)   Failure to complete work within specified time. In the event any work
governed by this chapter is not completed by the right of-way user within the
time required or in accordance with the specifications required herein or by
the City Manager, the City Manager may cause such work to be performed as is
necessary to secure the work area to a safe and passable condition. The right-
of-way user shall reimburse the city for the costs of securing the site.
   (KK)   Removal and reconstruction where work is defective. All construction
work in the streets, right-of-ways, sidewalks and public places of the city is
declared to be subject to the exclusive control of the city, and whenever, in
the sole opinion of the City Manager, any such work shall not have been duly
completed within a reasonable time or shall have been executed in a defective
manner, whether because of bad workmanship or materials or because not true to
the lines or grades or specification therefor given to him or her by the City
Manager, then upon written demand or notice from the City Manager, such right-
of-way user or contractor shall promptly remedy, complete and/or remove and
reconstruct such incomplete or defective work all as the City Manager may
require, and these provisions shall also apply to all repair and maintenance
work. If the contractor or right-of-way user shall fail or refuse to do so
within a reasonable time to be  specified by the City Manager, then, if
required by the City Manager, such work shall be completed or corrected or
removed and wholly or partially reconstructed by the city, in such a manner as
in the opinion of the City Manager may be necessary to make such work as good
as originally required, and such work may be done by contract or otherwise,
under the direction of the City Manager, and the contractor or right-of-way
user shall reimburse city for any and all cost incurred by the city performing
the work described in this subsection.
   (LL)   Cleanup of right-of-way. In every case, and at all times, the work of
removing from the right-of-way all obstructions, surplus materials, debris and
waste matter of every description caused by and/or accumulated from the
excavation shall be the sole responsibility of the right-of-way user. The
right-of-way user shall maintain the area on and around the excavation and
related work in a clean, safe and orderly fashion at all times during conduct
of the excavation and shall clean the same area upon completion of work.
Streets shall be cleaned by use of a vacuum street sweeper. The right-of-way
user shall clean the surrounding area, as outlined above, within one day upon
completion and approval of all trench work and pavement restoration unless the
City Manager, sufficient reason therefore having been given to his or her
satisfaction, grants a written extension of time.
   (MM)   Reporting Completion of Work. When the work under permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall notify the city in accordance with the
requirements placed on the permit. The  city will schedule a final walk-through
with the contractor to develop a final punch list of items to be remedied.
   (NN)   Effect of chapter on persons engaged in construction. Any permit
issued prior to the adoption of this chapter will remain subject to the terms
and conditions of city ordinances and requirements in effect at the time of
issuance of the permit and is not affected by this chapter, except that, upon
expiration or conclusion of the permit, a new or renewal permit must be
obtained in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
§ 154.04  INDEMNIFICATION, INSURANCE, BONDING AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   Liability of right-of-way user. To the extent allowed by law, the
right-of-way user shall be liable to the city for any damage or loss occasioned
by any act and/or omission occurring in connection with its excavation, and
subject to state law, the right-of-way user shall fully indemnify, hold
harmless and defend the city, its councilmembers, officers, employees, agents,
representatives and volunteers from and against any and all suits, actions,
judgments, losses, costs, demands, claims, expenses (including attorney’s
fees), damages, and liabilities of every kind to which the city, its
councilmembers, officers, employees, agents, representatives and volunteers may
be subjected for injury of any type, death or property damage arising from or
connected with any such act and/or omission. The city shall promptly notify a
permittee, or right-of-way user, at the address set forth in the permit, or
last known address, of any  claim, suit or demand served upon the city and
alleging negligent or wrongful conduct by the permittee or right-of-way user in
connection with an excavation.
   (B)   Insurance.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, unless exempt under this
chapter, to construct, reconstruct or repair any sidewalk, driveway, curb or
curb and gutter in any street, alley, easement or right-of-way of the city
without having first executed and delivered to the city a current policy of
liability insurance in an amount determined by the city, and such insurance
must be conditioned as follows: that the principal shall fully indemnify and
hold the city harmless from any and all cost, expense or damage, whether real
or asserted, on account of any injury done to any person or property in the
prosecution of the work, or that may arise out of or be occasioned by the
performance of such work. The city shall have no duty to perform under this
chapter until such certificate has been delivered to the department.
      (2)   The city shall be entitled, upon request and without expense before
issuing a permit, to receive copies of the policies and all endorsements
thereto as they apply to .the limits required by the city, and may make a
reasonable request for deletion, revision, or modification of particular policy
terms: conditions, limitations or exclusions (except where policy revisions are
established by law or regulation binding upon any party to the policy or the
underwriter of such policy). Upon such request by the city, the right-of-way
user shall exercise reasonable effort to accomplish such changes in policy
coverage, and shall pay the cost thereof.
      (3)   Right-of-way user shall notify the city in the event of any notice
of cancellation, nonrenewal or material change in coverage and shall  give such
notices not less than 30 days prior to the change, or ten days’ notice for
cancellation due to nonpayment of premiums, which notice must be accompanied by
a replacement certificate of insurance.
      (4)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as limiting in any way
the extent to which the right-of-way user may be held responsible for payments
of damages to persons (including death) or property resulting from the right-
of-way user’s, or its subcontractors’, performance of the work performed in the
public right-of-way.
      (5)   The city owned utilities shall not be required to provide the
insurance specified herein.
      (6)   With respect to the right-of-way user’s obligation to comply with
the requirements for commercial general (public) liability insurance coverage,
the City Manager may, in his or her discretion, allow the right-of-way user to
self-insure upon annual production of evidence that is satisfactory to show the
user has sufficient assets and history of performance to justify the user to
self-insure.
   (C)   Performance/assurance bond. Before a permit shall be issued, the City
Manager may, in his or her discretion, require the applicant and/or the person
or entity for which the applicant is performing, to execute and deliver to the
city, to be kept on file with the city, a good and sufficient bond of
performance or assurance, in the sum to be determined by the city and
conditioned that the person making the application shall promptly adjust, pay
and settle all legitimate claims for damages that may result by reason of
carelessness or negligence in the manner of performing such work or by reason
of any defects therein caused or arising from careless, negligent or imperfect
construction thereof, and to hold the city, its councilmembers, officers,
employees, volunteers, agents, and representatives, free and harmless from
liability on all such claims for damages to the performance or assurance bond
which shall cover the cost of repairs in or upon the street, sidewalk or other
public place where the work is to be done that may become necessary by reason
of such cut or excavation having been made. The bond shall be maintained until
the work is accepted by the city.
   (D)   Liability of contractor and sureties for maintenance and repair work.
Any defects of workmanship or material relating to work done by an excavator
during the initial project or becoming known, or which should have been known,
during the guarantee period (the two years) shall be known as maintenance or
repair work, and both the excavator and the sureties and/or the contractor’s
bond shall be fully liable for any default of such contractor under this
section. In the event of a failure in the restoration of an excavation, the
right-of-way user shall, at its sole expense, have one opportunity to repair,
in a timely manner, the section of the restoration that has failed, which
repair shall be in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter. In
the event of any subsequent failure of that section of the restoration, the
city retains the right and option to terminate the right-of-way user’s
guaranty, upon written notice to the right-of-way user. In such event, the
right-of-way user shall reimburse the city for its direct costs associated with
the repair of the failure of the restoration work.
   (E)   When additional security required. In the event the City Manager
reasonably believes the contractor’s or right-of-way user’s solvency is
threatened, the City Manager may, at any time, make written demand on a
contractor and/or right-of-way user for bonds, and the contractor and/or right-
of-way user shall immediately furnish such additional bond or bonds to the
city.
   (F)   Decision of City Manager binding on contractor, right-of-way user and
sureties. If any question arises as to when any work was actually begun or
other specific dates, the decision of the City Manager shall be conclusive on
the contractor, right-of-way user, and the sureties on all such bonds.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
§ 154.05  VARIANCES AND EXEMPTIONS.
   Variance/exemptions. A permittee or right-of-way user may request a variance
from any of the requirements of this chapter by filing a written request with
the City Manager stating the requirement and the basis for the variance. The
City Manager may reject incomplete variance requests. The applicant shall bear
its own expenses of the application process.
   (A)   Any request for a variance from any right-of-way restoration
requirement shall be made in writing, in advance -of any contemplated  work and
shall be accompanied by digitally formatted detailed plans of the substituted
reconstruction and/or repair of the excavated area, if applicable.
   (B)   Any request for an exemption and/or variance from any penalty and/or
fee, other than as provided in this chapter, shall be made in writing, and
shall be accompanied by a written detailed request stating the reasons
therefor.
   (C)   Any request for an exemption and/or variance from any permit, or any
other requirement of this chapter shall be made in writing, stating in detail
ail reasons for the requested exemption and/or variance.
   (D)   The department shall grant or deny an application for a variance and/
or exemption within ten days of receipt of the application for variance and/or
exemption.
   (E)   Denial of the variance may be appealed in accordance with §
154.02(U).
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
§ 154.06  CERTIFIED TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Certificated telecommunications providers authority required/
nonexclusive use. A CTP must provide evidence that the CTP has acquired
authorization from the PUCT pursuant to state law, prior to obtaining a permit
to use public right-of-way. The CTP’s right to use and occupy the public right-
of-way shall not be exclusive, and the city shall have the right to exercise
its police powers and manage its public right-of-way, based on the Act and all
other state or federal laws.
   (B)   Transfer and notice. A CTP shall notify the City Manager of any sale,
transfer, merger or assignment of the ownership or control of a CTP’s business
within 30 days of such sale, transfer, merger or assignment. A CTP shall also
maintain and provide current point-of-contact information with the City Manager
at all times during which the CTP uses the right-of-way.
   (C)   Exemption from fees. CTPs are exempted from the following fees
provided for in this chapter:
      (1)   Permit application fee, including expedited application fee and
permit expiration fee;
      (2)   Additional permit fee;
      (3)   Saturday inspection fee;
      (4)   Registration fee.
   (D)   Waiver bonds. Unless determined otherwise by the City Manager a CTP
will be exempt from the bonding requirements of this chapter, however, in the
event that the City Manager determines, based upon reasonable grounds, that a
bond is necessary to protect the public assets, and/or the health and safety of
the public, then the City Manager may require that a CTP post a reasonable bond
not to exceed $100,000. Factors to be considered in determining reasonable
grounds may include, but are not limited to, a conviction for violation of this
chapter, a general pattern of substandard adherence to the provisions of this
chapter or the failure to comply with this chapter. If three years pass from
the date that the City Manager requires a bond of a CTP and it has not been
necessary for the city to seek performance under the bond, then a bond will no
longer be required pursuant to this section.
   (E)   CTP indemnity.  A CTP shall indemnify the city as specified by Texas
Local Government Code § 283.057, as may be amended. A CTP shall be exempt from
all indemnity requirements of this chapter that are inconsistent with Texas
Local Government Code § 283.057, as amended.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
§ 154.07  NETWORK PROVIDERS.
   (A)   Network providers authority required/nonexclusive use. A network
provider must provide evidence that the network provider has acquired all
required authorization pursuant to state law, prior to obtaining a permit to
use public right-of-way. The network provider’s right to use and occupy the
public right-of-way shall not be exclusive, and the city shall have the right
to exercise its police powers and manage its public right-of-way, based on the
Texas Local Government Code Chapter 284 and all other state or federal laws.
   (B)   Transfer and notice. A network provider shall notify the City Manager
of any sale, transfer, merger or assignment of the ownership or control of a
network provider’s business within 30 days of such sale, transfer, merger or
assignment. A network provider shall also maintain and provide current point-
of-contact information with the City Manager at all times during which the
network uses the right-of-way.
   (C)   Network Provider indemnity. A network provider shall indemnify the
city as specified by Texas Local Government Code, as may be amended.
   (D)   Compliance with Design Manual. A network provider shall comply with
the city’s Wireless Services (Small Cells) Design Manual, as amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
§ 154.08  ADOPTING A PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
DESIGN MANUAL.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the City of Canton,
Texas, Wireless Services (Small Cell) Design Manual, dated August 29, 2017,
attached to the ordinance codified herein, is hereby adopted and effective
immediately.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
§ 154.09  RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT, MOVING, BURNING.
   (A)   Right-of-way management.
 
Permit
Any or
cutting of  $200
street
Small cell
application
fee. (This
fee shall
not exceed  $500 (1-5 network notes); $250 (each additional network node); $1,000 per pole
and is
capped by
statutory
limits):
Small cell
user fees.
(This fee
shall not
exceed and  $250 annually for each network node; $20 per year for city pole attachment
is capped
by
statutory
limits):
Transport
facility
monthly
user fee.   $28 multiplied by the number of the network provider’s network nodes located
(This fee   in the public right-of-way for which the installed transport facilities
shall not   provide backhaul, until the time the network provider’s payment to the city
exceed and  exceeds its monthly aggregate per month compensation to the city.
is capped
by
statutory
limits):
 
   (B)   Moving building permit.
 
Permit
Moving of buildings from, into, or $100 plus cost of police and utilities
within city
Certificate of occupancy           $125
 
   (C)   Burn permits.
 
Burn Permit
             Burn permits may be issued through the Canton Fire Department in
Burn permits accordance with §
             93.03 of the Canton Code of Ordinances on open burning (or any
             amendments thereto)
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
§ 154.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity violating any
provision contained in this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, be fined an amount not more than $500; unless the
violation relates to fire, safety, or public health and sanitation, including
dumping and refuse, in which case the fine shall not exceed $2,000. Each day a
violation exists shall be deemed a separate offense. The fines imposed under
this chapter shall not preclude the city from filing suit to enjoin any
violation, or from exercising any other right, and the city expressly retains
all legal rights and remedies to it pursuant to local, state and federal law.
(Ord. 2017-10, passed 9-6-2010)
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING ORDINANCE
Section
   
155.01   Zoning Ordinance adopted by reference
§ 155.01  ZONING ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Canton Zoning Ordinance is adopted and incorporated as part of
this Code of Ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 2020-2, passed 1-21-2020)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FINANCES AND TAXATION
TABLE I:  FINANCES AND TAXATION
Ord. No. Passage Date Description
Ord. No. Passage Date Description
2007-20  6-19-2007    Amending 2006-2007 budget
2007-25  9-14-2007    Appropriations for support of city; appropriating money
                      into sinking fund; adopting 2007-2008 budget
2007-28  9-20-2007    Amending 2006-2007 budget
2007-34  - -          Authorizing the issuance of city combination tax and
                      revenue certificates of obligation
2007-39  12-18-2007   Amending 2007-2008 budget
2008-21  - -2008      Authorizing the issuance of tax notes; levying ad valorem
                      tax; and other mater related to issuance of notes
2008-22  9-16-2008    Appropriations for support of city; adopting budget for
                      2008-2009
2008-23  9-16-2008    Levying ad valorem taxes for 2008
2008-26  10-21-2008   Amending 2007-2008 budget
2009-20  6-16-2009    Amending 2008-2009 budget
2009-25  9-14-2009    Appropriations for support of city; adopting budget for
                      2009-2010
2009-26  9-14-2009    Levying ad valorem taxes for 2009
2009-27  9-14-2009    Repealing local sales and use tax exemption on
                      telecommunication services
2010-05  3-16-2010    Amending 2009-2010 budget
2010-15  9-14-2010    Appropriations for support of city; adopting budget for
                      2010-2011
2010-16  9-14-2010    Levying ad valorem taxes for 2010
2011-09  5-17-2011    Amending 2010-2011 budget
2011-12  9-13-2011    Levying ad valorem taxes for 2011
2012-10  9-11-2012    Appropriations for support of city; adopting budget for
                      2012-2013
2012-11  9-11-2012    Levying ad valorem taxes for 2012
2012-14  10-16-2012   Amending 2011-2012 budget
2013-16  9-10-2013    Appropriations for support of city; adopting budget for
                      2013-2014
2013-17  4-16-2013    Amending 2012-2013 budget
2013-21  9-30-2013    Amending 2012-2013 budget
2014-16  10-21-2014   Amending 2013-2014 budget
2015-04  4-21-2015    Amending 2014-2015 budget
2015-21  9-8-2015     Levying ad valorem taxes for 2015
2015-23  10-20-2015   Amending 2014-2015 budget
2015-27  12-15-2015   Amending 2014-2015 budget
2016-05  3-15-2016    Amending 2015-2016 budget
2016-11  5-7-2016     Amending 2015-2016 budget
2016-19  8-16-2016    Amending 2015-2016 budget
2016-25  11-21-2016   Amending 2015-2016 budget
2016-32  9-6-2016     Appropriations for city support; adopting budget for
                      2016-2017
2016-33  9-6-2016     Levying ad valorem taxes for 2016
2017-07  6-20-2017    Amending 2016-2017 budget
2017-11  9-5-2017     Appropriations for city support; adopting budget for
                      2017-2018
2017-12  9-5-2017     Levying ad valorem taxes for 2017
2018-16  9-4-2018     Appropriations for city support; adopting budget for
                      2018-2019
2018-17  9-4-2018     Levying ad valorem taxes for 2018
2019-12  9-3-2019     Levying ad valorem taxes for 2019
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Statutes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS STATUTES
 
Tex. Admin. Code                    Code Section
Title 1, Part 3, Ch. 70, Rule 70.03 33.01
                                    
 
 
Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code Code Section
105                          116.99
109.33                       116.01
                             
 
 
Tex. Code of Crim. Procedure Code Section
45.052                       33.03
45.053                       33.03
45.056                       33.03
102.0172                     33.02
102.0174                     33.03
                             
 
 
Tex. Family Code Code Section
31               132.01
51.08            132.99
                 
 
 
Tex. Gov’t CodCode Section
418             32.16
552.261(a)(1)   33.01
552.261(a)(2)   33.01
552.261(b)      33.01
                
 
 
Tex. Health and Safety Code Code Section
431.001–438.061           112.01
Title 9, Ch. 773            32.40
                            
 
 
Tex. Human Resources Code Code Section
[Reserved for future use]
                          
 
Tex. Loc. Gov’t CodCode Section
Tex. Loc. Gov’t CodCode Section
22.071               31.03
53                   10.01
54                   151.05,
                     151.99
54.001               10.99,
                     116.99
171                  31.36
                     151.01,
214                  151.02,
                     151.05
214.001(o)           151.19A
214.001 (p)          151.02
214.0012             151.19B
214.0012(h)          151.19B
238                  154.02
283.057              154.06
284                  154.07
                     
 
 
Tex. Occupations Code Code Section
2153.451              118.03
                      
 
 
Tex. Penal Code Code Section
42.09           94.12
42.092          94.08,
                94.12
Ch. 47          118.01
47.01           118.01
                
 
 
Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Code Section
1000                 31.01
4477-6a              94.10
8280-13              151.45
                     
 
 
Tex. Tax Code Code Section
11.253(a)(2)  33.05
              
 
 
Tex. Trans. Code Code Section
501.001 et seq.  93.16
545.356          70.04
                 
 
 
Tex. Utilities Code Code Section
251.001 et seq.     154.02
                    
 
 
Tex. Water Code Code Section
16.315          152.01
                
                
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2008-18  10-21-2008  30.02
                    
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         151.30
–      5-13-1952   30.01
–      10-9-1956   31.01
–      2-11-1964   70.13
                     70.01–
                     70.10;
64-12    12-21-1964  70.25–
                     70.40;
                     70.55–
                     70.60
–      12-16-1965  110.01
–      12-16-1965  151.54
                     91.20–
–      7-21-1969   91.25;
                     91.99
78-1     3-21-1978   70.14
78       7-18-1978   70.12
–      11-21-1984  93.01
                     151.45;
–      11-19-1985  151.47–
                     151.54;
                     151.99
–      2-11-1986   90.02
86-9     9-23-1986   150.01
87-3     3-17-1987   110.02
88-1     6-2-1988    110.03
                     113.01–
88-2     7-19-1988   113.04;
                     113.99
88-4     8-16-1988   90.01
88-11    12-13-1988  93.02
                     110.15–
89-3     2-21-1989   110.26;
                     110.99
89-14    9-19-1989   113.03
90-2     7-17-1990   113.03
91-5     4-16-1991   151.20–
                     151.30
91-12    11-19-1991  34.01
                     51.01–
92-9     10-20-1992  51.03;
                     51.05
93-03    3-16-1993   91.05
93-06    4-20-1993   30.20–
                     30.30
94-02    1-18-1994   52.01
95-02    2-21-1995   112.01;
                     112.99
95-04    6-20-1995   31.15
95-10    11-28-1995  91.05
96-04    6-4-1996    130.01
                     32.35–
96-11    10-15-1996  32.41;
                     32.99
–      7-15-1997   34.01
98-05    8-18-1998   34.01
                     92.01–
94-13    9-29-1998   92.06;
                     92.99
                     93.15–
99-09    7-20-1999   93.19;
                     93.99
                     115.01–
                     115.08;
99-03    3-16-1999   115.30–
                     115.35;
                     115.99
                     52.40 –
2000-03  2-19-2000   52.50,
                     52.99
                     52.40 –
2000-04  3-11-2000   52.50,
                     52.99
2000-13  12-12-2000  31.02
2001-01  2-20-2001   51.20
2001-03  3-20-2001   33.04
2002-12  10-15-2002  70.11
2003-13  10-21-2003  33.02
2004-25  9-28-2004   34.01
2004-26  9-28-2004   34.01
2005-17  7-16-2005   32.15–
                     32.23
–      9-19-2005   51.20
2005-40  12-20-2005  33.03
2006-01  1-17-2006   150.16
2006-08  6-20-2006   33.01
                     91.01–
2006-10  6-20-2006   91.05;
                     91.99
                     111.01–
2006-13  8-15-2006   111.06;
                     111.99
2006-22  9-19-2006   51.04
2006-23  9-19-2006   131.01
                     50.01–
                     50.10;
2007-02  2-20-2007   50.25–
                     50.37;
                     50.99
2007-09  4-17-2007   32.01
2007-10  4-17-2007   31.03
2007-14  4-17-2007   53.01
2007-16  5-15-2007   93.02
2007-17  5-15-2007   95.01
2007-20  6-19-2007   TSO I
2007-18  6-22-2007   10.20
2007-21  7-17-2007   31.03
2007-25  9-14-2007   TSO I
2007-27  9-18-2007   51.03;
                     51.04
2007-28  9-20-2007   TSO I
2007-34  - -         TSO I
2007-34  10-16-2007  51.03;
                     51.04
2007-35  11-20-2007  33.05
2007-37  11-20-2007  70.10;
                     70.99
2007-36  12-18-2007  Ch. 71, Sch. I
2007-39  12-18-2007  TSO I
2008-21  - -2008     TSO I
2008-05  3-18-2008   51.20
2008-08  5-20-2008   Ch. 71, Sch. II
2008-11  6-30-2008   93.03
2008-13  7-15-2008   131.01
2008-14  9-2-2008    51.03;
                     51.04
2008-15  9-2-2008    53.01
2008-16  9-2-2008    53.01
                     51.01;
2008-17  9-2-2008    51.02;
                     51.05
                     111.01–
2008-20  9-16-2008   111.07;
                     111.99
2008-22  9-16-2008   TSO I
2008-23  9-16-2008   TSO I
                     112.01;
2008-25  10-21-2008  112.02;
                     112.99
2008-26  10-21-2008  TSO I
                     132.01–
2008-27  11-18-2008  132.03;
                     132.99
2008-29  11-18-2008  93.04
                     112.10–
2009-01  1-21-2009   112.13;
                     112.99
                     112.10–
2009-01a 2-17-2009   112.13;
                     112.99
                     90.10–
2009-04  2-19-2009   90.13;
                     90.99
                     114.01–
2009-05  2-24-2009   114.04;
                     114.99
                     52.40–
2009-08  3-17-2009   52.50;
                     52.99
                     116.01;
                     116.03;
2009-09  9-14-2009   116.07–
                     116.10;
                     116.99
2009-13  4-23-2009   Adopting Ordinance
2009-14  4-23-2009   Ch. 72, Sch. I,
                     II
                     52.15–
2009-15  4-23-2009   52.28;
                     52.99
                     92.01–
2009-18  6-16-2009   92.06;
                     92.99
2009-20  6-16-2009   TSO I
                     111.01–
2009-22  7-21-2009   111.07;
                     111.99
2009-24  8-20-2009   33.01
2009-25  9-14-2009   TSO I
2009-26  9-14-2009   TSO I
2009-27  9-14-2009   TSO I
                     116.01–
2009-29  9-14-2009   116.07;
                     116.99
                     116.01;
                     116.03;
2009-35  11-17-2009  116.07–
                     116.10;
                     116.99
2010-05  3-16-2010   TSO I
2010-07  10-1-2010   33.01
                     54.01–
2010-11  6-17-2010   54.04;
                     54.99
                     152.01–
                     152.04;
                     152.10;
                     152.15–
2010-12  8-12-2010   152.21;
                     152.30–
                     152.33;
                     152.40–
                     152.44;
                     152.99
2010-15  9-14-2010   TSO I
2010-16  9-14-2010   TSO I
2010-17  9-14-2010   33.01
                     111.01–
2010-21  9-21-2010   111.07;
                     111.99
2010-22  9-21-2010   133.01;
                     133.99
                     114.01–
2011-01  2-22-2011   114.04;
                     114.99
2011-03  2-22-2011   90.03
2011-04  3-21-2011   32.01
2011-09  5-17-2011   TSO I
                     111.01–
2011-10  8-16-2011   111.07;
                     111.99
2011-12  9-13-2011   TSO I
2011-18  11-15-2011  Adopting Ordinance
                     30.21;
2012-01  1-17-2012   30.24;
                     30.28
2012-05  3-20-2012   116.03
2012-06  5-15-2012   33.01
                     111.01–
2012-09  8-21-2012   111.07;
                     111.99
2012-10  9-11-2012   TSO I
2012-11  9-11-2012   TSO I
2012-14  10-16-2012  TSO I
                     117.01–
2013-12  8-20-2013   117.06;
                     117.99
2013-13  8-20-2013   Ch. 72, Sch. II
                     111.01–
2013-15  8-20-2013   111.07;
                     111.99
2013-16  9-10-2013   TSO I
2013-17  4-16-2013   TSO I
2013-18  9-10-2013   33.01
2013-21  9-30-2013   TSO I
                     111.01–
2014-11  10-7-2014   111.07;
                     111.99
2014-16  10-21-2014  TSO I
2014-18  11-18-2014  33.01
2015-04  4-21-2015   TSO I
2015-05  4-21-2015   93.16
2015-06  4-21-2015   70.14
2015-10  6-16-2015   150.16
2015-21  9-8-2015    TSO I
2015-23  10-20-2015  TSO I
2015-27  12-15-2015  TSO I
2016-05  3-15-2016   TSO I
                     151.01–
2016-07  4-19-2016   151.19C;
                     151.99
2016-08  4-19-2016   150.16
2016-11  5-17-2016   TSO I
2016-12  5-17-2016   Ch. 72, Sch. II
                     111.01–
2016-15  6-21-2016   111.07;
                     111.99
2016-19  8-16-2016   TSO I
2016-21  10-18-2016  94.01–
                     94.15
                     153.01–
2016-22  9-11-2012   153.13;
                     153.99
2016-25  11-21-2016  TSO I
2016-32  9-6-2016    TSO I
2016-33  9-6-2016    TSO I
                     92.01–
2017-05  2-21-2017   92.06;
                     92.99
2017-07  6-20-2017   TSO I
                     111.01–
2017-08  4-18-2017   111.07;
                     111.99
2017-10  9-6-2017    154.01–
                     154.08
2017-11  9-5-2017    TSO I
2017-12  9-5-2017    TSO I
2017-13  9-5-2017    33.01
                     151.65–
2017-14  10-17-2017  151.71;
                     151.99
2017-18  10-17-2017  Ch. 72, Sch. II
                     111.01–
2017-19  10-17-2017  111.07;
                     111.99
2018-04  2-20-2018   33.01
2018-05  2-20-2018   92.02;
                     92.05
2018-09  3-20-2018   150.16
                     111.01–
2018-10  4-17-2018   111.07;
                     111.99
                     111.01–
2018-11  6-19-2018   111.07;
                     111.99
2018-15  9-4-2018    33.01
2018-16  9-4-2018    TSO I
2018-17  9-4-2018    TSO I
                     118.01–
2018-29  11-20-2018  118.19;
                     118.99
                     31.30–
2019-06  1-15-2019   31.37;
                     31.99
                     116.01–
2019-04  5-21-2019   116.11;
                     116.99
                     52.16;
                     52.17;
                     52.21–
2019-8   5-21-2019   52.23;
                     52.26;
                     52.28;
                     52.29
2019-12  9-3-2019    TSO I
2019-13  9-3-2019    33.01
2019-18  10-15-2019  94.01–
                     94.16
2020-2   1-21-2020   155.01
2020-9   6-16-2020   Ch. 71, Sch. I
2020-18  9-1-2020    33.01
                    
 
