CLIFTON, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local Legislation current through Ord.191102, passed 11-12-2019
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Clifton, Texas, shall
be designated as the “Code of Clifton” and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Local Government
Code Ch. 53
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the laws
of the state.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense; however, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALDERMAN. A member of the Council of the city and shall include the term
“Council member”.
      CITY. The City of Clifton, in the County of Bosque and State of Texas.
      CITY OFFICERS, AGENCIES. The terms “City Administrator”, “City
Secretary”, “Mayor”, “Chief of Police” or other city officers, employees,
departments, boards, commissions or agencies shall be construed to mean the
city’s Secretary, Mayor, Chief of Police or such other municipal officers,
employees, departments, boards, commissions or agencies, respectively, of the
city.
      CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Clifton, Texas.
      COUNTY. Bosque County, Texas.
      EXTRA TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). The area lying outside and within
one-half mile of any contiguous boundary of the city.
      HIGHWAY. The width between the boundary lines of a publicly-maintained
way any part of which is open to the public for vehicular travel.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. Terms purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in such cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      ROADWAY. The portion of a highway, other than the berm or shoulder, that
is improved, designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel. If a highway
includes at least two separate roadways, the term applies to each ROADWAY
separately.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIDEWALK. Any portion of the street between the curb, or the lateral line
of the roadway and the adjacent property line, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(2012 Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of the municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   (1)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided,
shall be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.
      (2)   If the last day be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including, but not limited to, the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All such ordinances mentioned in division (A) above are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length herein.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.  In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25,
passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example:  (Tex. Local Government Code § 54.001)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980;
Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
§ 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
   This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
   Inspection of public records, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 552.001 et
seq.
§ 10.19  ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the town to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   The maximum fine for violating provisions of this code of ordinances,
or other city ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning or public health and
sanitation, including dumping of refuse, shall be $2,000 per separate and
distinct offense.
   (B)   The maximum fine for violation of all provisions of this code of
ordinances, or other city ordinances not enumerated in division (A) above,
shall be $500 per separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   Each day any violation of this code of ordinances or any ordinance
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (D)   No penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the
same or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
(2012 Code, § 1-9)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to adopt appropriate penalties for violations of code, see
     Tex. Local Government Code § 53.001
   Penalties for violation of ordinances, see Tex. Local Government Code §
54.001
CHAPTER 11:  CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City logo
   
11.02   Classification of city
§ 11.01  CITY LOGO.
   The logo is designed to be used three ways: logomark only; logomark with the
words, “Clifton” and “Texas” below; logomark with the words, “Clifton” and
“Texas” below with a separator and tagline on the right side. The color shall
be either black or Pantone 355 green. To ensure that the logo will never have
to compete visually with other graphic elements, a minimum 20% of the width of
the logomark space clearance from any part of the logomark, words or tagline is
required. Minimum width of the logomark portion of the logo is 0.75 inches.
When using the logo on a white background, the logo must be approved green or
black. When using the logo on an approved green or black background, the logo
must be white.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4b8eaf4bd0261b9cae0c10aaa158f373c0ca968e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1781.jpg] 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/4b8eaf4bd0261b9cae0c10aaa158f373c0ca968e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1783.jpg]
  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/4b8eaf4bd0261b9cae0c10aaa158f373c0ca968e/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1785.jpg]
 
(2012 Code, § 1-11)
§ 11.02  CLASSIFICATION OF CITY.
   The city is a Type A General Law Municipality pursuant to Tex. Local
Government Code § 5.001(3).
(2012 Code, § 2-1)
Statutory reference:
   Type A General Law Municipality, see Tex. Local Government Code Chs. 6, 21,
22
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
34.   LAW ENFORCEMENT
      
35.   ELECTIONS
      
36.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
      
37.   RECORDS MANAGEMENT
      
38.   CIVIL EMERGENCIES
      
39.   ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:  CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Governing body; composition
   
30.02   Meetings generally
   
30.03   Quorum
Statutory reference:
   Governing body, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 22.031 et seq.
§ 30.01  GOVERNING BODY; COMPOSITION.
   The governing body of the city shall consist of a City Council composed of
the Mayor and five Aldermen.
(2012 Code, § 2-36)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Local Government Code § 22.031(b)
§ 30.02  MEETINGS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold one regular meeting each month at such
time as is fixed by resolution of the Council.
   (B)   The Mayor, on his or her own motion or on the application of three
Aldermen, may call special meetings of the Council, by notice to each member of
the Council, the City Administrator, the City Secretary and the City Attorney,
served personally or left at their usual places of abode.
(2012 Code, § 2-37)
Statutory reference:
   Duty of Council to hold regular meetings and procedure for calling special
meetings, see Tex. Local Government Code § 22.038
§ 30.03  QUORUM.
   (A)   A majority of the number of Aldermen established by Tex. Local
Government Code § 22.031 for the city constitutes a quorum.
   (B)   However, at a called meeting or at a meeting to consider the
imposition of taxes, two-thirds of the number of Aldermen established by that
section constitutes a quorum unless provided otherwise.
(2012 Code, § 2-38)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Local Government Code § 22.039
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   City officers designated; election and appointment
   
31.02   Oath of city officers
   
31.03   Compensation and duties
   
31.04   Social Security; retirement system
Specific Officers
   
31.15   Code Enforcement Officer
   
31.16   Mayor
City Administrator
   
31.30   Status
   
31.31   Residence
   
31.32   Term of office
   
31.33   Absence or disability
   
31.34   Powers and duties
   
31.35   Compensation and bond
   
31.36   Effect of conflicting ordinances
City Secretary
   
31.50   General powers and duties
   
31.51   Bond
City Treasurer
   
31.65   Bond and duties
   
31.66   Deposit of funds
   
31.67   Records and accounts
   
31.68   Monthly and annual reports
   
31.69   Register of warrants
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  CITY OFFICERS DESIGNATED; ELECTION AND APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   In addition to the Mayor and Aldermen, the officers of the city shall
be a City Administrator, a Secretary, an Attorney, a Chief of Police, an
Engineer, a Health Officer, a Treasurer, an Assessor and Collector and such
other officers as the Council may establish.
   (B)   The Mayor and Aldermen shall be elected by the people.
   (C)   All other officers shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the
consent of the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 2-71)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of officers of Type A general law municipality, see Tex. Local
Government Code § 22.071
§ 31.02  OATH OF CITY OFFICERS.
   Each person elected by the electors of the city or by the City Council to
any city office shall, before entering upon the duties of such office, take and
subscribe the official oath prescribed in the Constitution of the state; and
the oath shall be filed with the City Secretary.
(2012 Code, § 2-72)
Statutory reference:
   Oath for elected or appointed officer, see Tex. Local Government Code §
22.005
§ 31.03  COMPENSATION AND DUTIES.
   The City Council shall fix the compensation of all officers and employees of
the city and prescribe general and special duties to be performed by each.
(2012 Code, § 2-73)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of officers, see Tex. Local Government Code § 141.001
§ 31.04  SOCIAL SECURITY; RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Execution of agreements. The City Council, acting for and on behalf of
the city, shall enter into all necessary agreements with the Employees’
Retirement System of the state for the purpose of securing federal Social
Security benefits for city employees as prescribed in applicable state and
federal laws. The Mayor is appointed as agent of the City Council and of the
city to execute all necessary agreements and instruments for and in behalf of
the City Council and the city.
(2012 Code, § 2-206)
   (B)   Duties of City Secretary. The City Secretary is directed to be the
person responsible for making assessments, collections, payments and reports,
as required by the Employees’ Retirement System of the state, in connection
with the federal Social Security program.
(2012 Code, § 2-207)
   (C)   Fund established. A sufficient sum of money shall be allocated and set
aside from available funds for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
the federal Social Security program under applicable state and federal laws,
such money so allocated and set aside to be known as the city’s “Social
Security Fund”, which fund shall be set aside and maintained in the regular
city depository.
(2012 Code, § 2-208)
Statutory reference:
   Social Security for municipal employees, see Tex. Government Code Ch. 606
SPECIFIC OFFICERS
§ 31.15  CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   After other following methods (such as verbal and written notices or
abatement by the city) of enforcing compliance with the city code of ordinances
have failed, a City Code Enforcement Officer is empowered by the City Council
to issue a citation or notice to appear before the city’s Municipal Court
Judge.
(2012 Code, § 2-74)
§ 31.16  MAYOR.
   (A)   General duties. The Mayor shall perform all duties incumbent upon an
executive head of a city government as provided in the statutes of the state.
(2012 Code, § 2-96)
   (B)   Veto power. The Mayor shall have power to veto any ordinance or
resolution of the City Council by filing his or her objections with the
Secretary within three days after its passage, and it shall require a majority
vote of all Aldermen to pass any such resolution or ordinance over his or her
veto.
(2012 Code, § 2-97)
Statutory reference:
   Powers and duties of Mayor, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 22.042,
341.011
   Veto power of Mayor, see Tex. Local Government Code § 52.003
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.30  STATUS.
   The City Administrator shall be the administrative head of the municipal
government under the direction and supervision of the Mayor and City Council.
(2012 Code, § 2-121)
§ 31.31  RESIDENCE.
   The Administrator may or may not be a resident of the city when appointed,
but during the term of his or her office shall reside in close proximity to the
city.
(2012 Code, § 2-122)
§ 31.32  TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Administrator shall be appointed for an indefinite period and shall be
subject to discharge at the will of the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 2-123)
§ 31.33  ABSENCE OR DISABILITY.
   During the absence or disability of the Administrator, the Council shall
designate some properly qualified person to perform the duties of the office.
(2012 Code, § 2-124)
§ 31.34  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Administrator shall be to:
   (A)   Devote all of his or her working time and attention to the affairs of
the city, and be responsible to the City Council for the efficient
administration of its affairs;
   (B)   See that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
   (C)   Recommend to the City Council the appointment or removal of the heads
of departments and shall have the responsibility of hiring or removing,
directly or through other department heads, other city employees with the
exception of law enforcement officers;
   (D)   Exercise supervision and control over departments created by the
Council or that may be created by the Council, as the Council may direct;
   (E)   Attend all meetings of the Council with the right to take part in the
discussion, but having no vote;
   (F)   See that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the city and its
inhabitants in any public utility franchise are faithfully kept and performed
and upon knowledge of any violation of such franchise to call the violation to
the attention of the Council;
   (G)   Act as Budget Officer and as such to prepare and submit to the
Council, prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, a budget of proposed
expenditures for the ensuing year, showing in as much detail as practicable the
estimated amounts required by months for the efficient operation of each
department of the city government and the reasons for such estimated
expenditures;
   (H)   Make and file a budget as required by state law;
   (I)   Make a full written report to the Council as soon after the close of
each month’s accounts as possible, showing the operation and expenditures of
each department for the preceding month, and a comparison of such monthly
expenditures, by departments, with the monthly allowances made for such
departments in the annual budget, and to keep the Council fully advised at all
times as to the financial condition and needs of the city;
   (J)   (1)   Act as purchasing agent for the city and to purchase all
merchandise, material and supplies needed by the city; and may establish, if
needed, a suitable storehouse where such supplies shall be kept and from which
same shall be issued as needed; and adopt such rules and regulations governing
requisitions and transactions of business between himself and herself as
purchasing agent and the heads of the departments, officers and employees of
the city as the Council may approve;
      (2)   As purchasing agent, give opportunity for competition on purchases
and sales, except when the nature of the purchase or sale is such that
competition is impossible or impracticable;
      (3)   All purchases in excess of $15,000, except of real estate, or
rights or easements in real estate, shall be by contract to the lowest
responsible bidder; and all sales in excess of $500, except of real estate or
rights or easements in real estate, shall be made to the highest bidder after
public notice and the receipt of sealed bids unless the Council, by ordinance,
determines that it is impossible or impracticable to purchase or sell in such a
manner, or unless the state law specifies otherwise;
      (4)   All sealed bids received shall be opened in public and, thereafter,
shall be subject to public inspection. The Council may reject all bids and
require advertisement for new bids;
      (5)   The purchasing agent may require successful bidders to furnish
security conditioned upon the faithful performance of their contracts or
conditioned upon the payment of the wages and compensation of all laborers
employed on work for which the contract is made by the contractor,
subcontractor, agent or any other person, or condition of both; and
      (6)   The purchasing agent shall not let any contract for periods
exceeding one year for street lighting, public improvement, labor or supplies
without the approval of the Council.
   (K)   In case of accident or other circumstances creating an emergency, the
Administrator may, with the consent of the Council, award contracts and make
purchases for the purpose of repairing damages caused by accident or avoiding a
public emergency; but immediately afterwards, he or she shall file with the
Mayor a certificate showing such emergency and the necessity of such action,
together with an itemized account of all expenditures;
   (L)   Recommend/submit to the Council the salaries to be paid each
appointive officer and subordinate employee of the city; and it shall be the
duty of the Council to fix such rates of compensation;
   (M)   Recommend to the Council, in writing, for adoption, such measures as
he or she may deem necessary or expedient; and
   (N)   Do and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or
resolution of the Council.
(2012 Code, § 2-125)
Statutory reference:
   Municipal budget, see Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 102
   Purchasing and contracting authority of municipalities, see Tex. Local
Government Code Ch. 252
§ 31.35  COMPENSATION AND BOND.
   The Administrator shall receive such compensation as the Council shall fix
and shall furnish such surety bond as may be required by the Council, the
premium to be paid by the city.
(2012 Code, § 2-126)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Council to require officers to give bond, see Tex. Local
Government Code § 22.072(c)
§ 31.36  EFFECT OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances of the city prescribing the duties of heads of departments
shall remain in full force and effect, except insofar as they conflict with the
provisions of this subchapter, in which case the provisions of this subchapter
shall govern.
(2012 Code, § 2-127)
CITY SECRETARY
§ 31.50  GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Secretary shall attend each meeting of the City Council and
shall keep, in a record provided for that purpose, accurate minutes of the
Council’s proceedings.
   (B)   The Secretary shall:
      (1)   Engross and enroll all laws, resolutions and ordinances of the
Council;
      (2)   Keep the corporate seal;
      (3)   Take charge of, arrange and maintain the records of the Council;
      (4)   Countersign all commissions issued to city officers and all
licenses issued by the Mayor, and keep a record of those commissions and
licenses; and
      (5)   Prepare all notices required under any regulation or ordinance of
the city.
   (C)   The Secretary shall notify the state’s Judicial Council of the name of
each person who is elected or appointed as Mayor, Municipal Court Judge or
Clerk of the Municipal Court of the city. The Secretary shall notify the
Judicial Council within 30 days after the date of the person’s election or
appointment.
   (D)   The Secretary shall draw all the warrants on the Treasurer,
countersign the warrants and keep, in a record provided for that purpose, an
accurate account of the warrants.
   (E)   (1)   The Secretary serves as the general accountant of the city and
shall keep regular accounts of the city’s receipts and disbursements.
      (2)   The Secretary shall keep each cause of receipt and disbursement
separately and under proper headings. The Secretary shall also keep separate
accounts with each person, including each officer, who has monetary
transactions with the city. The Secretary shall credit accounts allowed by
proper authority and shall specify the particular transaction to which each
entry applies. The Secretary shall keep records of the accounts and other
information covered by this section.
   (F)   The Secretary shall keep a register of bonds and bills issued by the
city and all evidence of debt due and payable to the city, noting the relevant
particulars and facts as they occur.
   (G)   The Secretary shall carefully keep all contracts made by the Council.
   (H)   The Secretary shall perform all other duties required by law,
ordinance, resolution or order of the Council.
(2012 Code, § 2-151)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Local Government Code § 22.073
§ 31.51  BOND.
   The City Secretary shall give bond for the faithful performance of his or
her duties in such sum and conditions as may be fixed and determined by the
City Council, to be approved by the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 2-152)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Council to require officers to give bond, see Tex. Local
Government Code § 22.072(c)
CITY TREASURER
§ 31.65  BOND AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Treasurer of the city shall execute a bond. The bond must:
      (1)   Be in favor of the city;
      (2)   Be in the form and amount required by the City Council;
      (3)   Have security approved as sufficient by the City Council; and
      (4)   Be conditioned that the Treasurer will faithfully discharge the
duties of the office.
   (B)   (1)   The Treasurer shall receive and securely keep all money
belonging to the city.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall make all payments on the order of the Mayor,
attested by the City Secretary under the seal of the city.
      (3)   The Treasurer may not pay an order unless the face of the order
shows that the Council directed the issuance of the order and shows the purpose
for which it is issued.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall render to the Council a full statement of the
receipts and payments. The statement must be rendered at the Council’s first
regular meeting in every quarter and at other times as required by the Council.
   (D)   The Treasurer shall perform other acts and duties as the Council
requires.
(2012 Code, § 2-176)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of Council to require officers to give bond, see Tex. Local
Government Code § 22.072(c)
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Local Government Code § 22.075
§ 31.66  DEPOSIT OF FUNDS.
   The City Treasurer shall deposit the city funds in such depositories as may
be selected as is provided by statute.
(2012 Code, § 2-177)
Statutory reference:
   Depositories for municipal funds, see Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 105
§ 31.67  RECORDS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The Treasurer shall keep such records showing all money received by him or
her, the source from which it was received and the purpose for which it was
paid out; and he or she shall keep a record showing at all times the financial
status of the city. The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be
required by the City Council and shall keep them in the manner required by law.
(2012 Code, § 2-178)
§ 31.68  MONTHLY AND ANNUAL REPORTS.
   The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the Council showing the state of
the finances of the city, and the amounts received and spent during the month,
which reports shall be filed; and he or she shall make an annual report at the
close of the fiscal year with the total amount of all receipts and expenditures
of the city and his or her transactions during the preceding year.
(2012 Code, § 2-179)
§ 31.69  REGISTER OF WARRANTS.
   The Treasurer shall keep a register of all warrants, bonds or orders filed
by him or her or paid by him or her and all vouchers, as is required by this
subchapter.
(2012 Code, § 2-180)
CHAPTER 32:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning and Zoning Commission
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Creation
   
32.03   Appointment of members
   
32.04   Statutes adopted
   
32.05   Advice from city officials
   
32.06   Officers
   
32.07   Powers and duties
Parks and Recreation Advisory Board
   
32.20   Creation
   
32.21   Composition; appointment and qualifications
   
32.22   Terms; vacancies and compensation
   
32.23   Officers and meetings
   
32.24   Powers and duties
Higher Education Finance Corporation
   
32.35   Creation
   
32.36   Board of Directors; composition, appointment and qualifications
   
32.37   Terms; vacancies and compensation
   
32.38   Officers and meetings
   
32.39   Powers and duties
Hospital Authority
   
32.50   Establishment
   
32.51   Title
   
32.52   Territorial boundaries
   
32.53   Authority
   
32.54   Board of Directors; members
PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION
§ 32.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Clifton.
   COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission for the city.
(2012 Code, § 2-242)
§ 32.02  CREATION.
   There is created a Planning and Zoning Commission for the city, composed of
not less than five, nor more than seven, members, each of whom shall be a
resident taxpaying citizen of the city.
(2012 Code, § 2-243)
Statutory reference:
   Zoning Commission, see Tex. Local Government Code § 211.007
§ 32.03  APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint the members of the Commission, and each person
so appointed must be approved by two-thirds majority of the City Council
present and voting.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of not less than five, nor more than
seven, members.
   (C)   The regular term of office shall be three years. At the option of the
Mayor, and with two-thirds majority approval of the City Council present and
voting, terms may be staggered such that the terms of not less than one, nor
more than three, persons ends in any one year. The term of office for all
members shall commence immediately upon appointment and shall end on January 1
of the calendar year during which the term is due to expire. A member may be
removed for cause by a three-fourths vote of the City Council.
   (D)   A member who is absent from three consecutive meetings shall be
considered in neglect and subject to removal. It is recommended that members
not serve multiple consecutive terms; provided, however, that, this
recommendation shall not be construed to strictly forbid reappointment.
Vacancies created by resignation or removal shall be filled in the same manner
prescribed for all appointees; provided that, replacement appointees will serve
the remainder of the unexpired term and shall then be eligible for
reappointment.
(2012 Code, § 2-244)
§ 32.04  STATUTES ADOPTED.
   State statutes authorizing and empowering cities to regulate the platting
and recording of subdivisions or additions situated within the corporate
limits, and establishing extraterritorial jurisdiction within one-half mile of
the city (Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 212), are adopted for and on behalf of
the city; and the city, acting through its duly authorized officials, shall
have all the rights, powers, privileges and authority authorized and granted by
and through those statutes.
(2012 Code, § 2-245)
§ 32.05  ADVICE FROM CITY OFFICIALS.
   (A)   All department heads, officials of the city and technical consultants
employed by the city shall be available to the Commission for advice and
consultation; and they shall cooperate with and render such services for the
Commission as shall come within the scope of the duties of such department
heads and officials.
   (B)   All such department heads and officials shall attend meetings of the
Commission upon the written request of the Commission or its duly authorized
official.
(2012 Code, § 2-246)
§ 32.06  OFFICERS.
   (A)   As soon as practicable after appointment, the Commission shall elect
one of its members as Chairperson and one as Vice Chairperson.
   (B)   The Chairperson or Vice Chairperson shall preside at all meetings of
the Commission and all communications to the Planning and Zoning Commission
shall be addressed to the Chairperson. The Commission shall conduct meetings as
deemed necessary by the Chairperson. The Chairperson shall appoint a Commission
member to act as Secretary, whose duties it will be to keep the minutes of the
proceedings of the Commission and execute all correspondence or communications
under the direction of the Chairperson or Vice Chairperson.
   (C)   (1)   The term of office for the Chairperson and Vice Chairperson
shall end at the earlier of:
         (a)   Two calendar years; or
         (b)   The completion of that member’s term of office.
      (2)   The Secretary shall serve at the pleasure of the Chairperson.
(2012 Code, § 2-247)
§ 32.07  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have the power and it shall be its duty to:
   (A)   Make studies and project plans for the improvement of the city with a
view for future development and extension, and recommend to the City Council
all matters for the development and improvement of the city’s facilities, and
shall pass upon the application for plats requested under Tex. Local Government
Code Ch. 212;
   (B)   Make plans and maps of the whole or any part or portion of the city
and of land outside the city, which, in the opinion of the Commission, bears a
relation to the planning of the city, and to make changes in, additions to and
extensions of such plans or maps when it deems the changes, additions and
extensions advisable;
   (C)   Confer with and advise private property owners pertaining to location
and erection of private structures with the view of having them conform to the
overall city plan, and advise the Building Inspectors and Department of Public
Works in the performance of their duties;
   (D)   Advise all other city and governmental agencies, and particularly the
City Council, in formulating and executing proper plans of the city’s
development and growth;
   (E)   Evaluate and recommend the locations, scope, character and standards
for streets, roads, alleyways, viaducts, bridges, subways, parkways, airports,
automobile parking places, utilities, public buildings, schools, parks,
playgrounds, railroads, water, lights, sanitation, sewerage, sewage disposal,
drainage, flood control, transportation terminals, communication, marketing and
shipping facilities, power and other facilities; and for the removal,
relocation, widening, extension, narrowing, vacating, abandoning or changing of
use of any of such public places, facilities and utilities;
   (F)   Select and recommend to the City Council routes of streets, avenues
and boulevards, including the opening, widening and abandoning of the same or
of any alley, or their changing to conform with the city’s system, present and
future, with reference to traffic, land use and public facilities;
   (G)   Evaluate and make recommendations to the City Council upon the layout
or platting of any new subdivision of the city, or of property situated within
one-half mile of the city limits, and to approve, approve conditionally or
disapprove modification of all plans, plats or replats of additions within the
city limits or within one-half mile of the city;
   (H)   Recommend to the City Council plans for clearance of slums and
blighted areas, the prevention of the spread of blight and dilapidation and
improvement of housing conditions;
   (I)   Make any recommendations concerning current and future zoning plans;
and
   (J)   Recommend to the City Council passage of such ordinances or ordinance
amendments as may be necessary to carry out the Commission’s program.
(2012 Code, § 2-248)
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY BOARD
§ 32.20  CREATION.
   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board is hereby created.
(2012 Code, § 2-250)
§ 32.21  COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall be composed of five
qualified voters of the city, unless this qualification shall be waived by a
majority vote of the City Council.
   (B)   Each member shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council will consider for appointment to the Board only those
persons who have demonstrated their civic interest, general knowledge of the
community, sound and logical judgment, interest in parks and recreation and
availability to prepare for and attend meetings. It is the intent of the City
Council that the members shall constitute a board which is broadly
representative of the community and various parks and recreation interests.
   (D)   The City Council shall attempt to seek members from the various
community/civic clubs, softball/baseball organizations, pool users, American
Legion, school district and tourism/special event interests.
(2012 Code, § 2-251)
§ 32.22  TERMS; VACANCIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The terms of four members of the Board shall expire on September 30 of
all odd-numbered years, and the terms of three members shall expire on
September 30 of all even-numbered years.
   (B)   Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (C)   No member shall be appointed for a term greater than two years, but
may be re-appointed to succeed themselves.
   (D)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
(2012 Code, § 2-252)
§ 32.23  OFFICERS AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreations Advisory Board shall hold an organizational
meeting in October of each year and shall, at that meeting, elect a Chair and
Vice Chair from the appointed members before proceeding to any other matter of
business.
   (B)   The Chair shall preside at all meetings.
   (C)   The Board shall elect a Secretary and such other officers as it deems
necessary.
   (D)   All meetings of the Board shall be held in accordance with the Open
Meetings Act of the state, being Tex. Government Code Ch. 551, with an agenda
posted at City Hall.
   (E)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
   (F)   The Board shall meet as needed by the determination of the Chair or
Vice Chair, or at the written request of three members delivered to the Chair
or Vice Chair.
   (G)   The Board shall meet at times and place determined by the Board.
(2012 Code, § 2-253)
§ 32.24  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Board shall be as
follows.
   (A)   Advisory capacity to the City Council. The Board shall act only in a
advisory capacity to the City Council in all matters pertaining to parks and
recreation; shall acquaint itself with and make a continuous study and
inspection of the complete park and recreation system of the city; and shall
advise the City Council from time to time as to the present and future
planning, acquisition, development, enlargement and use policy of the parks and
recreation system.
   (B)   Study and development of recreation areas. The Board shall study and
encourage the development of park and recreation areas and study and encourage
the development of wholesome recreation for all residents of the city.
   (C)   Advice to city staff. The Board shall advise the city staff of
developing problems of recreational areas, facilities, programs or recreational
services.
   (D)   Review, study and recommend projects and programs. The Board shall
review, study and recommend to the City Administrator prioritized projects or
activities considered desirable for presentation to the City Council in budget
deliberations.
   (E)   Advise on long-range capital improvements plan.
      (1)   The Board shall advise the City Council and staff in the
development of long-range capital improvement programs.
      (2)   The Board shall also recommend the need for additional park and
recreation facilities, grounds and equipment.
   (F)   Recommend park and recreation rules and regulations. The Board shall
recommend to the City Council rules and regulations governing the use of city
parks and recreational facilities.
   (G)   Other recommendations to the Council. The Board shall make other
recommendations to the staff or City Council that it considers appropriate and
advisable.
   (H)   Solicitations. The Board may, with prior approval by the City Council,
solicit gifts, revenues, bequests or endowments or money or property as
donations or grants to the city, subject to the approval and acceptance by the
City Council.
(2012 Code, § 2-254)
HIGHER EDUCATION FINANCE CORPORATION
§ 32.35  CREATION.
   The city’s Higher Education Finance Corporation is hereby created.
(2012 Code, § 2-260)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Tex. Education Code Ch. 53, §§ 53.35(b) and 53A.35
(b)
§ 32.36  BOARD OF DIRECTORS; COMPOSITION, APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board shall be composed of seven permanent residents of the county
who are not members of the City Council, nor public officers of the city.
   (B)   (1)   Board members shall be appointed by the City Council.
      (2)   Board members serve at-will and may be removed by a majority vote
of the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 2-261)
§ 32.37  TERMS; VACANCIES AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   Members of the Board shall serve two-year terms.
      (2)   There is no limit to the number of consecutive terms that can be
served.
   (B)   Vacancies shall be filled by the City Council for the remainder of an
unexpired term.
   (C)   The members of the Board shall serve without compensation, except they
shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties as directors.
(2012 Code, § 2-262)
§ 32.38  OFFICERS AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreations Advisory Board shall hold an annual
organizational meeting and at that meeting elect a Chair, Vice Chair and such
other officers as it deems necessary.
   (B)   All meetings of the Board shall be held in accordance with the Open
Meetings Act of the state, being Tex. Government Code Ch. 551, with an agenda
posted at City Hall.
   (C)   A majority of the Board shall constitute a quorum.
   (D)   The Board shall meet as needed by the determination of the Chair or
Vice Chair, or at the written request of three members delivered to the Chair
or Vice Chair.
   (E)   The Board shall meet at times and place determined by the Board.
(2012 Code, § 2-263)
§ 32.39  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Board shall be as described in the City of
Clifton Higher Education Finance Corporation Articles of Incorporation and the
City of Clifton Higher Education Finance Corporation Bylaws, which shall be
filed by the City Secretary at City Hall.
(2012 Code, § 2-264)
HOSPITAL AUTHORITY
§ 32.50  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the city and
its residents to create a hospital authority pursuant to the Hospital Authority
Act, being Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 262.
   (B)   A hospital authority be, and is hereby, created under and pursuant to
the Hospital Authority Act, being Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 262.
(Ord. 120802, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 32.51  TITLE.
   The name by which such Hospital Authority shall be known is hereby
designated to be the “Goodall-Witcher Hospital Authority” (hereinafter,
“Hospital Authority”).
(Ord. 120802, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 32.52  TERRITORIAL BOUNDARIES.
   The territorial boundaries of the Hospital Authority shall be the territory
included within the boundaries of the city as such boundaries lawfully exist on
the date of this subchapter; provided, however, that, no defect in the
definition of the boundaries of the city or in any proceeding for annexation or
disannexation of territory shall effect the validity of the creation and
existence of the Hospital Authority or any of its powers, duties or functions.
(Ord. 120802, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 32.53  AUTHORITY.
   The Hospital Authority: shall be without taxing power; shall be a body-
politic and corporate; shall have the power of perpetual succession; shall have
a seal; shall have the power to sue and be sued; and shall have the power to
make, amend and repeal its bylaws, all as authorized by the Hospital Authority
Act, being Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 262. The Hospital Authority shall
have such other powers as are provided by law.
(Ord. 120802, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 32.54  BOARD OF DIRECTORS; MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Hospital Authority shall be governed by a Board of Directors
consisting of seven members. Directors shall serve until their successors have
been appointed and duly qualified, unless other provision is made in a bond
resolution or trust indenture in connection with the issuance of bonds as
provided by the Hospital Authority Act, being Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch.
262, or some other provision of law. Each Director shall qualify by executing
the oath of office required for appointed officials in the state. Directors
will be appointed by the City Council unless another manner of appointment is
provided for under specific circumstances by the Hospital Authority Act, being
Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 262. After appointment, qualification and
organization of the Board of Directors, the Hospital Authority shall be
authorized to transact business and to exercise its powers, duties and
functions pursuant to the Hospital Authority Act, being Tex. Health and Safety
Code Ch. 262 and other applicable law.
   (B)   Three members of the initial Board of Directors of the Hospital
Authority, as chosen and designated by the City Council, shall serve initial
terms of one year. Four of the members of the initial Board of Directors of the
Hospital Authority, as chosen and designated by the City Council, shall serve
initial terms of two years. After the Directors’ initial terms have concluded,
all Directors will be appointed for terms of two years. It is the intent of
this section that, after the expiration of the initial terms of the initial
Directors, three Director positions shall be appointed and filled in odd-
numbered years and four Director positions shall be appointed and filled in
even-numbered years.
(Ord. 120802, passed 9-11-2012)
CHAPTER 33:  MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
33.01   Presiding officer
   
33.02   Judge
   
33.03   Clerk
   
33.04   Pleading, practice and procedure
   
33.05   Warrant fees
   
33.06   Administrative fees
   
33.07   Municipal Court Technology Fund
   
33.08   Municipal Court Building Security Fund
§ 33.01  PRESIDING OFFICER.
   The Municipal Court shall be presided over by a Judge of such Court. In the
absence of the Judge, the Mayor shall preside over such Court.
(2012 Code, § 26-31)
Statutory reference:
   Judge, see Tex. Government Code § 29.004
§ 33.02  JUDGE.
   (A)   The Judge of the Municipal Court shall be appointed by the Mayor, by
and with the consent of the City Council.
   (B)   The Judge shall receive such compensation as is fixed by the City
Council and he or she shall have such duties and powers as are prescribed by
the laws of the state relating to municipal courts.
(2012 Code, § 26-32)
Statutory reference:
   Appointment of judge in general law cities, see Tex. Government Code §
29.004(b)
§ 33.03  CLERK.
   (A)   There shall be a Clerk of the Municipal Court.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to keep minutes of the proceedings
of the Court, to issue all process and generally to do and perform all the
duties of a clerk of a court as prescribed by law for the clerk of a county
court, insofar as such provisions may be applicable.
   (C)   The Clerk shall have authority to appoint a deputy, who shall have the
same powers as the Clerk.
(2012 Code, § 26-33)
Statutory reference:
   Clerk of Municipal Court, see Tex. Government Code § 29.010
§ 33.04  PLEADING, PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE.
   The rules of pleading, practice and procedure established for justice’s
courts shall apply to the Municipal Court insofar as they are applicable.
(2012 Code, § 26-34)
Statutory reference:
   Court procedures, see Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure Art. 45.001 et seq.
§ 33.05  WARRANT FEES.
   As provided in Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure Art. 45.06, there is
established a special expense or warrant fee in an amount as shall be
established by the Council for the issuance and service of a warrant for an
arrest for an offense under Tex. Penal Code § 38.10 or under Tex.
Transportation Code § 543.009; and the special expenses described in Tex. Code
of Criminal Procedure Art. 17.04, dealing with the requisites of a personal
bond; and a special expense for the issuance and service of a warrant of
arrest, after due notice, in an amount as shall be established by the Council,
shall be paid into the city treasury for the use and benefit of the city.
(2012 Code, § 26-35)
§ 33.06  ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed an administrative fee which shall be as
established by the Council to be levied against any person requesting a driving
safety course authorized under Tex. Transportation Code §§ 543.113 through
543.115.
   (B)   (1)   The fee is to be paid at the time the driving course is
requested and not thereafter.
      (2)   The fee is authorized under Tex. Transportation Code § 543.115 and
is not refundable.
(2012 Code, § 26-36)
§ 33.07  MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Municipal Court Technology Fund in
accordance with Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure Subch. A, Art. 102.0172, which
shall be separate and apart from all other funds and shall be used only for the
purposes hereinafter identified.
   (B)   Any defendant of the Municipal Court convicted of a misdemeanor
offense shall pay the technology fee of $4 as a court cost.
   (C)   For purposes of assessing the technology fee, a person is deemed
convicted and required to pay the fee if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person is placed on community supervision, including deferred
adjudication community supervision; or
      (3)   The Court defers final disposition of the person’s case.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Technology Fund shall be used solely for the
purposes as follows with the consent of the City Council:
      (1)   Computer systems or networks;
      (2)   Computer hardware or software;
      (3)   Imaging systems;
      (4)   Electronic kiosks;
      (5)   Electronic ticket writers; and
      (6)   Docket management systems.
   (E)   The technology fee shall not be charged for any violation or
conviction for which the offense was committed prior to 9-1-1999.
   (F)   This fee shall be effective for all current and future unpaid
convictions of misdemeanors in Municipal Court final reading after a public
hearing and publication of the final version of this section in compliance with
state law.
(2012 Code, § 26-37)
§ 33.08  MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   Under Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure Art. 102.017, the City Council
hereby establishes a Municipal Court Building Security Fund (MCBSF).
   (B)   The City Council requires defendants convicted of a misdemeanor
offense in Municipal Court to pay a security fee as a cost of court.
   (C)   A person is considered convicted if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person receives community supervision, including deferred
adjudication; or
      (3)   The Court defers final disposition of the person’s case.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect a $3 security fee as a cost of
Court for deposit in the MCBSF.
   (E)   Under the direction of the City Council, money deposited in the MCBSF
may be used only for security personnel, services and items related to
buildings that house the operations of the Municipal Court, including:
      (1)   The purchase or repair of X-ray machines and conveying systems;
      (2)   Handheld metal detectors;
      (3)   Walkthrough metal detectors;
      (4)   Identification cards and systems;
      (5)   Electronic locking and surveillance equipment;
      (6)   Video teleconferencing systems;
      (7)   Bailiffs, deputy sheriffs, deputy constables or contract security
personnel during times when they are providing appropriate security services;
      (8)   Signage;
      (9)   Confiscated weapon inventory and tracking systems;
      (10)   Locks, chains, alarms or similar security devices;
      (11)   The purchase or repair of bullet-proof glass;
      (12)   Continuing education on security issues for Court personnel and
security personnel; and
      (13)   Warrant officers and related equipment.
(Ord. 130101, passed - -2013)
CHAPTER 34:  LAW ENFORCEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   City Marshal
Police Department
   
34.15   Establishment
   
34.16   Police officers to take oath
   
34.17   Members; duty to obey
   
34.18   Nepotism
   
34.19   Interlocal law enforcement agreements; rights reserved by City Council
   
34.20   Chief of Police
Police Reserve Force
   
34.35   Establishment
   
34.36   Appointment; discharge
   
34.37   Limitation on membership
   
34.38   When utilized; schedule of work assignments
   
34.39   Compensation
   
34.40   Nature of service
   
34.41   Liability of city and Chief of Police
   
34.42   Authority of Mayor to summon special police force
   
34.43   Standards for service
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01  CITY MARSHAL.
   The office of City Marshal is abolished.
(2012 Code, § 46-1)
Statutory reference:
   Abolition of office of marshal, see Tex. Local Government Code § 22.076
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 34.15  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created a Police Department for the city.
(2012 Code, § 46-36)
Statutory reference:
   Police force of Type A general law municipality, see Tex. Local Government
Code § 341.001
§ 34.16  POLICE OFFICERS TO TAKE OATH.
   The Chief of Police or any other police officer acting in or for the city
shall, before entering upon the duties of his or her office, take the oath of
office prescribed by the State Constitution.
(2012 Code, § 46-37)
§ 34.17  MEMBERS; DUTY TO OBEY.
   (A)   The Police Department of the city shall consist of the Chief of Police
and such number of commissioned regular police officers, commissioned reserve
police officers and civilian personnel assigned to support services for the
Police Department as the City Council may authorize.
(2012 Code, § 46-38)
   (B)   The Chief of Police, all commissioned regular police, the commissioned
reserve police officers and the civilian members assigned to the Police
Department will at all times abide by and obey any and all lawful policies,
general orders and division directives as set forth in the Police Department’s
Manual of Operations that, when adopted, amended, deleted or changed by the
Council, shall carry the weight of authority as though contained in and set
forth in this subchapter.
(2012 Code, § 46-39)
§ 34.18  NEPOTISM.
   The Chief of Police, the commissioned regular police officers, the
commissioned reserve officers and civilian personnel assigned to the Police
Department shall not receive appointment with the Police Department who are at
the time of appointment related within the second degree of affinity or within
the third degree of consanguinity to the Mayor or any member of the City
Council.
(2012 Code, § 46-40)
§ 34.19  INTERLOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGREEMENTS; RIGHTS RESERVED BY CITY
COUNCIL.
   The City Council reserves the right, pursuant to the provisions of Tex.
Local Government Code Ch. 362, to permit the Chief of Police to enter into
interlocal city or county law enforcement agreements, contracts or other acts
of reciprocity for the purpose of providing or receiving outside law
enforcement assistance to other cities/counties in time of criminal or civil
emergency. Any agreements, contracts or acts of reciprocity entered into shall
be with the advice and consent of the majority of the City Council; and such
consent shall be rendered at a regularly scheduled public hearing.
(2012 Code, § 46-41)
§ 34.20  CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   Office created. There is created the office of Chief of Police of the
city, which shall be filled by some suitable person who possesses all of the
qualifications prescribed by the City Council and the state’s Commission on Law
Enforcement Officer Standards and Education. This officer shall be appointed by
the City Council and shall serve for an indefinite term at the pleasure of the
City Council.
(2012 Code, § 46-66)
   (B)   Chief of Police to be member of the Police Department. The person
occupying the office of Chief of Police shall, by virtue of such appointment
and the exercise of the duties of the office, be and become a member of the
Police Department and shall be subject to all of the ordinances and laws
applicable to police officers, including all laws presently in force and which
may be hereafter enacted.
(2012 Code, § 46-67)
   (C)   Duties. The Chief of Police will be responsible for the command, duty
assignments and external relations of the Department as approved by the Mayor.
The Chief of Police shall propose such programs and policies to the Mayor as
deemed necessary to maintain an efficient and effective Department. The Chief
of Police shall develop, present and justify budget estimates for departmental
operations of the Department. The Chief of Police shall at all times take
appropriate action to protect life and property, preserve the peace, prevent
crime, detect and arrest violators of the law and enforce all federal, state
and local laws and ordinances coming within Departmental jurisdiction. The
Chief of Police shall perform such other duties as assigned by the Mayor or as
prescribed by law.
(2012 Code, § 46-68)
   (D)   Supervision. The Chief of Police shall report to the Mayor, who shall
be responsible for the direction and supervision of the Chief of Police.
(2012 Code, § 46-69)
   (E)   To submit monthly report.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall submit one monthly report to the City
Council at its regularly scheduled public hearing.
      (2)   The report shall contain the number of arrests, traffic accidents,
both injury and non-injury traffic citations, number of patrol and
administrative hours, number and hours of presentation made to civic groups and
schools, number of hours spent in court and number of miles driven as reflected
from daily report sheets. The City Council may, at any time, request additional
reports reflecting other police statistics.
(2012 Code, § 46-70)
POLICE RESERVE FORCE
§ 34.35  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is established a Police Reserve Force for the city.
(2012 Code, § 46-10)
Statutory reference:
   Police reserve force, see Tex. Local Government Code § 341.012
§ 34.36  APPOINTMENT; DISCHARGE.
   Members of the Police Reserve Force shall be appointed and/or relieved at
the discretion of the Chief of Police and shall serve as police officers during
actual discharge of official duties.
(2012 Code, § 46-102)
§ 34.37  LIMITATION ON MEMBERSHIP.
   The Police Reserve Force shall not exceed ten members.
(2012 Code, § 46-103)
§ 34.38  WHEN UTILIZED; SCHEDULE OF WORK ASSIGNMENTS.
   (A)   Members of the Police Reserve Force may be called into active service
at any time the Chief of Police considers it necessary to have additional
police officers to preserve the peace and enforce the laws of the state and
city ordinances.
   (B)   A schedule consisting of work assignments of the Police Reserve Force
will be presented to the City Council, once monthly, for its review and
recommendations, by the Chief of Police.
(2012 Code, § 46-104)
§ 34.39  COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Police Reserve Force will serve without compensation and
without compensation for uniforms and equipment.
(2012 Code, § 46-105)
Statutory reference:
   Compensation of police reserve force, see Tex. Local Government Code §
141.007
§ 34.40  NATURE OF SERVICE.
   Reserve police officers shall act only in a supplementary capacity to the
regular police force and shall in no case assume the full-time duties of
regular police officers without complying with the requirements for regular
police officers.
(2012 Code, § 46-106)
§ 34.41  LIABILITY OF CITY AND CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Except as otherwise specified by state law, the city and the Chief of Police
shall not incur any liability by reason of the appointment of any reserve
police officer sustaining any personal injury while serving in such capacity.
(2012 Code, § 46-107)
Statutory reference:
   Liability of a municipality, see Tex. Civil Practice and Remedies Code §
101.0215
§ 34.42  AUTHORITY OF MAYOR TO SUMMON SPECIAL POLICE FORCE.
   This subchapter does not limit the power of the Mayor to summon into service
any special police force as provided by state or federal law.
(2012 Code, § 46-108)
Statutory reference:
   Special police force in Type A general law municipality, see Tex. Local
Government Code § 341.011
§ 34.43  STANDARDS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Reserve police officers must comply with the minimum standards for
reserve police officers as established by the state’s Commission on Law
Enforcement Officer Standards and Education. Minimum standards are so
established, which must be fulfilled before a person appointed as a reserve
police officer may carry a weapon or otherwise act as a peace officer.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall establish qualifications and standards of
training for members of the Police Reserve Force and shall establish rules and
regulations governing reserve police officers.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may establish minimum physical, mental,
educational and moral standards as used by the Police Reserve Force, but in no
case shall the standards be less than those established by the state’s
Commission on Law Enforcement Standards and Education.
(2012 Code, § 46-109)
CHAPTER 35:  ELECTIONS
Section
   
35.01   State law governance
   
35.02   General duties of Mayor, City Secretary and Council
   
35.03   Election order and notice
   
35.04   Presiding judge and alternate for each election precinct
   
35.05   Election clerks
   
35.06   Compensation
   
35.07   Candidate’s application and petition
   
35.08   Posting candidates’ names; objections
   
35.09   Printing ballots; withdrawal
   
35.10   Voting place and hours
   
35.11   Early voting
   
35.12   Notice to and qualifying by persons elected
   
35.13   Preservation of records
Statutory reference:
   Candidate for city office, see Tex. Election Code §§ 143.001 et seq.
   Election dates and hours for voting, see Tex. Election Code §§ 41.001 et
seq.
   Election precincts, see Tex. Election Code §§ 42.001 et seq.
   Polling places, see Tex. Election Code §§ 43.001 et seq.
   Write-in candidate in city election, see Tex. Election Code §§ 146.051 et
seq.
§ 35.01  STATE LAW GOVERNANCE.
   All elections pertaining to municipal affairs shall be governed by the
election laws of the state.
(2012 Code, § 30-1)
§ 35.02  GENERAL DUTIES OF MAYOR, CITY SECRETARY AND COUNCIL.
   In all city elections, the Mayor, City Secretary or the City Council shall
do and perform each act in other elections required to be done and performed
respectively by the County Judge, the County Clerk or the Commissioners Court.
(2012 Code, § 30-2)
§ 35.03  ELECTION ORDER AND NOTICE.
   In all city elections, the Mayor or, if he or she fails to do so, the City
Council shall order the election and give notice of the election. Notice and
proclamation shall be issued and the City Secretary or City Administrator shall
post a properly executed copy at the place where the election is to be held.
Such notice shall be posted 30 days before the date of the election.
(2012 Code, § 30-3)
Statutory reference:
   Notice of election, see Tex. Election Code §§ 4.001 et seq.
   Ordering election of political subdivision, see Tex. Election Code §§ 3.004
et seq.
§ 35.04  PRESIDING JUDGE AND ALTERNATE FOR EACH ELECTION PRECINCT.
   (A)   A presiding election judge and an alternate presiding judge shall be
appointed by the Council for each election precinct in which an election is
held.
   (B)   The alternate presiding judge shall serve as presiding judge for an
election if the regularly appointed presiding judge cannot serve.
(2012 Code, § 30-4)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Election Code §§ 32.001, 32.005
§ 35.05  ELECTION CLERKS.
   (A)   The presiding judge for each election precinct shall appoint the
election clerks to assist the judge in the conduct of an election at the
polling place served by the judge.
   (B)   The appointment of an election clerk is for a single election only.
   (C)   In an election conducted by the regularly appointed presiding judge,
the presiding judge shall appoint the alternate presiding judge as one of the
clerks.
   (D)   The Council shall prescribe the maximum number of clerks that each
presiding judge may appoint for each election. The Council may prescribe
different maximums for different types of elections.
   (E)   The presiding judge shall appoint at least two clerks for each
precinct in each election and may appoint as many additional clerks, within the
prescribed limit, as are necessary for the proper conduct of the election.
(2012 Code, § 30-5)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Election Code §§ 32.031 et seq.
§ 35.06  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   An election judge or clerk is entitled to compensation for services
rendered at a precinct polling place at an hourly rate not to exceed $6. A
judge or clerk may be compensated at that rate for services rendered under Tex.
Election Code § 62.014(c).
   (B)   A judge or clerk may not be paid for more than one hour of work before
the polls open, except for payment made for work under Tex. Election Code §
62.014(c). In a precinct in which voting machines are used, a judge or clerk
may not be paid for more than two hours of work after the time for closing the
polls or after the last voter has voted, whichever is later.
   (C)   The election judge or clerk who delivers the precinct election
records, keys to ballot boxes or other election equipment and unused election
supplies after an election is entitled to compensation for that service in an
amount not to exceed $25.
   (D)   If more than one election officer delivers the records, keys and
unused supplies, the presiding judge shall determine how the amount fixed for
the service is to be allocated among the officers.
(2012 Code, § 30-6)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Election Code §§ 32.091, 32.092
§ 35.07  CANDIDATE’S APPLICATION AND PETITION.
   (A)   (1)   Any eligible and qualified person may have his or her name
printed upon the official ballot as an independent candidate for the office of
Mayor or Alderman or other city office by filing his or her sworn application
with the Mayor at least 45 days prior to the election day. The application
shall state that the applicant is eligible and qualified under the laws of the
state to become a candidate for and hold the office being sought, if elected.
      (2)   A candidate’s application for a place on the ballot must:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Be signed and sworn to by the candidate and indicate the date
that the candidate swears to the application;
         (c)   Be timely filed with the appropriate authority; and
         (d)   Include:
            1.   The candidate’s name;
            2.   The candidate’s occupation;
            3.   The office sought, including any place number or other
distinguishing number;
            4.   An indication of whether the office sought is to be filled for
a full or unexpired term if the office sought and another office to be voted on
have the same title, but do not have place numbers or other distinguishing
numbers;
            5.   A statement that the candidate is a United States citizen;
            6.   A statement that the candidate has not been determined
mentally incompetent by a final judgment of a court;
            7.   A statement that the candidate has not been finally convicted
of a felony from which the candidate has not been pardoned or otherwise
released from the resulting disabilities;
            8.   The candidate’s date of birth;
            9.   The candidate’s residence address or, if the residence has no
address, the address at which the candidate receives mail and a concise
description of the location of the candidate’s residence;
            10.   The candidate’s length of continuous residence in the state
and in the territory from which the office sought is elected as of the date the
candidate swears to the application; and
            11.   The statement: “I,                                , of Bosque
County, Texas, being a candidate for the office of                            
               , swear that I will support and defend the constitution and laws
of the United States and of the State of Texas”; and a statement that the
candidate is aware of the Nepotism Law, Tex. Government Code Ch. 573.
(2012 Code, § 30-7)
   (B)   The sworn application referred to in division (A)(2)(d)11. above may
be accompanied by a petition signed by qualified electors, although such
petition is not required.
(2012 Code, § 30-8)
Statutory reference:
   Filing period, see Tex. Election Code § 143.007
   General requirements for application, see Tex. Election Code § 141.031
§ 35.08  POSTING CANDIDATES’ NAMES; OBJECTIONS.
   The names of all those who have filed their sworn applications to have their
names printed on the official ballot as candidates in a city election shall be
posted by the City Secretary in a conspicuous place at his or her office for
the inspection of the public for at least ten days before he or she orders the
ballots to be printed. All objections to the regularity or validity of the
application of any person shall be made within five days after such posting, by
written notice filed with the City Secretary, setting forth the grounds of
objections. In case no such objection is filed within the time prescribed, the
regularity or validity of the application of no person whose name is so posted
shall be thereafter contested.
(2012 Code, § 30-9)
§ 35.09  PRINTING BALLOTS; WITHDRAWAL.
   Any person eligible to the office of Mayor, Alderman or other office who has
filed his or her sworn application in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter shall have his or her name printed on the official ballots. Any such
person may cause his or her name to be withdrawn not later than 5:00 p.m. of
the thirty-sixth day before election day by filing in writing, with the City
Secretary, a request to that effect over his or her own signature, duly
attested to by a notary public. No name so withdrawn shall be printed on the
ballot. Not later than 20 days before the city general election, the City
Secretary shall have the official ballots printed.
(2012 Code, § 30-10)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Election Code § 145.092(b)
§ 35.10  VOTING PLACE AND HOURS.
   All elections for the selection of city officials shall be held at the City
Hall between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
(2012 Code, § 30-11)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Election Code § 41.031
§ 35.11  EARLY VOTING.
   Each qualified voter who desires to cast an early vote and who is eligible
to do so shall be entitled to an official ballot and the right to cast such
ballot in accordance with the provisions of Tex. Election Code Ch. 81 et seq.
(2012 Code, § 30-12)
§ 35.12  NOTICE TO AND QUALIFYING BY PERSONS ELECTED.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Secretary to notify all persons
elected, and all newly elected officers may enter upon their duties on the
fifth day thereafter, Sundays excepted.
   (B)   If any such officer fails to qualify within 30 days after his or her
election, his or her office shall be deemed vacant and a new election held to
fill the same.
(2012 Code, § 30-13)
§ 35.13  PRESERVATION OF RECORDS.
   The City Secretary shall preserve in his or her office, for a period of two
years, all applications, notice of objections and other related papers
pertaining to a city election.
(2012 Code, § 30-14)
CHAPTER 36:  FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
36.01   Annual audit of city’s books and accounts
   
36.02   Sale tax on gas, electricity and telephone bills
   
36.03   When taxes payable; delinquencies
   
36.04   Taxation on certain tangible personal property
   
36.05   Limitation on ad valorem tax
Tax Abatement in Reinvestment Zones
   
36.20   Definitions
   
36.21   Abatement authorized
   
36.22   Guidelines for tax abatement
   
36.23   Standards for tax abatement
   
36.24   Denial of tax abatement; taxability
   
36.25   Application
   
36.26   Agreement
   
36.27   Recapture
   
36.28   Administration
   
36.29   Assignment
   
36.30   Sunset provision
Historic Property Tax Exemption
   
36.45   Granting of partial exemption
   
36.46   Designation of sites; requirements for eligibility
   
36.47   Application process
   
36.48   Certification process
   
36.49   Verification process
   
36.50   Alteration or destruction
   
36.51   Transferability to future owner(s)
   
36.52   Use in conjunction with other tax incentives
Hotel/Motel Occupancy Tax
   
36.65   Definitions
   
36.66   Collection; payment; accounting
   
36.67   Expenditure of proceeds
   
36.68   Penalty percentage
   
36.69   Contracts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 36.01  ANNUAL AUDIT OF CITY’S BOOKS AND ACCOUNTS.
   The City Council shall cause an annual audit to be made of the books and
accounts of the city by a certified public accountant.
(2012 Code, § 2-281)
Statutory reference:
   Audit of municipal finances, see Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 103
§ 36.02  SALES TAX ON GAS, ELECTRICITY AND TELEPHONE BILLS.
   The city will levy a 1% sales tax on gas, electric and telephone utility
bills.
(2012 Code, § 80-1)
Statutory reference:
   Residential use of gas and electricity, see Tex. Tax Code § 321.105
§ 36.03  WHEN TAXES PAYABLE; DELINQUENCIES.
   (A)   The ad valorem taxes levied by the City Council each year shall become
due on October 1 of the year for which the levy is made and may be paid up to
and including the following January 31 without penalty; but, if not so paid,
such taxes shall become delinquent on the following day, February 1; and the
city shall charge penalties and interest as provided in the state’s Tax Code.
   (B)   Such unpaid taxes shall bear interest at the rate of 6% per annum from
February 1 of the year next succeeding the year for which such taxes were
levied or assessed.
(2012 Code, § 80-36)
§ 36.04  TAXATION ON CERTAIN TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   All of that property described in the state’s Constitution, Art. VIII, shall
be fully taxable in the city.
(2012 Code, § 80-37)
§ 36.05  LIMITATION ON AD VALOREM TAX.
   (A)   For any resident of the city who is 65 years of age or older or is
disabled and receives a residence homestead exemption as provided by law, the
total amount of ad valorem taxes imposed by the city on that homestead may not
be increased while the property remains the residence homestead of that person
or that person’s spouse who is disabled or 65 years of age or older and
receives a residence homestead exemption on the homestead.
   (B)   Taxes otherwise limited by the city under this subchapter may be
increased by the city to the extent the value of the homestead is increased by
improvements other than repairs and other than improvements made to comply with
governmental requirements and except as may be consistent with the transfer of
a tax limitation under a law authorized by Art. 8, § 1-b, of the state’s
Constitution.
   (C)   As provided by state’s Constitution Art. 8, § 1-b(h), the city may not
repeal or rescind the tax limitation established under it.
(2012 Code, § 80-39)  (Ord. 070701, passed - -)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see Texas Constitution Art. 8, § 1-b(h)
TAX ABATEMENT IN REINVESTMENT ZONES
§ 36.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT. The full or partial exemption from ad valorem taxes of certain
real property in a reinvestment zone designated by the city for economic
development purposes.
   AGREEMENT. A contractual agreement between a property owner and/or lessee
and the city.
   BASE YEAR VALUE. The assessed value of eligible property January 1 preceding
the execution of the agreement, plus the agreed upon value of eligible property
improvements made after January 1, but before the execution of the agreement.
   DEFERRED MAINTENANCE. Improvements necessary for continued operation which
do not improve productivity or alter the process technology.
   ELIGIBLE FACILITIES. New, expanded or modernized buildings and structures,
including fixed machinery and equipment, which is reasonably likely as a result
of granting abatement to contribute to the retention or expansion of primary
employment or to attract major investment in the reinvestment zone that would
be a benefit to the property and that would contribute to the economic
development within the city, but does not include facilities which are intended
primarily to provide goods or services to residents or existing businesses
located in the  city, such as, but not limited to, restaurants and retail sales
establishments. ELIGIBLE FACILITIES may include, but shall not be limited to,
manufacturing facilities, office buildings and hotels.
   EXPANSION. The addition of buildings, structures, machinery, equipment or
payroll for purposes of increasing production capacity.
   FACILITY. Property improvements completed or in the process of construction
which together comprise an integral whole.
   HOTEL. A commercial structure which provides overnight accommodations to
travelers and which contains 30 rooms or more.
   MODERNIZATION. A complete or partial demolition of facilities and the
complete or partial reconstruction or installation of a facility of similar or
expanded production capacity. MODERNIZATION may result from the construction,
alteration or installation of buildings, structures, machinery or equipment, or
both.
   NEW FACILITY. A property previously undeveloped which is placed into service
by means other than or in conjunction with expansion or modernization.
   OFFICE BUILDING. A new office building to be occupied at least 50% by one
owner or one tenant.
   PRODUCTIVE LIFE. The number of years a property improvement is expected to
be in service in a facility.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.21  ABATEMENT AUTHORIZED.
   Property tax abatements are authorized to be issued within the jurisdiction
and authority of the City Council only for the purposes of preventing the loss
of payroll or taxable property value and creating or increasing the gross
payrolls or property values on a permanent basis within the jurisdiction of the
city.
   (A)   Eligible facilities. Upon application, eligible facilities shall be
considered for tax abatement, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Creation of new value. Abatement may only be granted for the
additional value of eligible property improvements made subsequent to and
specified in an abatement agreement between the city and the property owner or
lessee, subject to such limitations as the city may require.
   (C)   New and existing facilities. Abatement may be granted for new
facilities and improvements to existing facilities for purposes of
modernization or expansion.
   (D)   Eligible property. Abatement may be extended to the value of
buildings, structures, fixed machinery and equipment, site improvements and
related fixed improvements necessary to the operation and administration of the
facility.
   (E)   Ineligible property. The following types of property shall be fully
taxable and ineligible for tax abatement: land; supplies; tools; furnishings,
and other forms of moveable personal property; housing; deferred maintenance;
property to be rented or leased, except as provided in division (F) below;
property which has a productive life of less than ten years.
   (F)   Owned/leased facilities. If a leased facility is granted abatement,
the agreement shall be executed with the lessor and the lessee.
   (G)   Economic qualification. In order to be eligible for designation as a
reinvestment zone and to be considered for a tax abatement, the planned
improvement must increase the appraised ad valorem tax value of at least
$250,000 based upon the County Appraisal District’s assessment of the eligible
property; or the owner must establish and maintain a minimum annual payroll of
$200,000 or a minimum of 15 new full-time equivalent employees as a result of
such improvements.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.22  GUIDELINES FOR TAX ABATEMENT.
   The following shall serve as a guide for the determination of the percentage
of abatement to be considered and the duration for the abatement agreement, if
authorized.
   (A)   If the increase in assessed valuation is under $250,000 or the annual
payroll is under $200,000 or the increase in employment is under 15 FTE jobs,
then abatement is not authorized.
   (B)   If the increase in assessed valuation is $250,000 to $500,000 or the
annual payroll is $200,000 to $400,000 or the increase in employment is 15 to
25 FTE jobs, then the abatement percentage may be 25% to 33% or less for a
period of three years or less.
   (C)   If the increase in assessed valuation is $500,001 to $1,000,000 or the
annual payroll is $400,001 to $700,000 or the increase in employment is 26 to
45 FTE jobs, then the abatement percentage may be 33% to 40% or less for a
period of four years or less.
   (D)   If the increase in assessed valuation is $1,000,001 to $2,500,000 or
the annual payroll is $700,001 to $1,000,000 or the increase in employment is
46 to 70 FTE jobs, then the abatement percentage may be 40% to 50% or less for
a period of four years or less.
   (E)   If the increase in assessed valuation is $2,500,001 to $5,000,000 or
the annual payroll is $1,000,001 to $1,300,000 or the increase in employment is
71 to 95 FTE jobs, then the abatement percentage may be 50% or less for a
period of five years or less.
   (F)   If the increase in assessed valuation is $5,000,001 to $10,000,000 or
the annual payroll is $1,300,001 to $1,800,000 or the increase in employment is
96 to 125 FTE jobs, then the abatement percentage may be 50% or less for a
period of six years or less.
   (G)   If the increase in assessed valuation is $10,000,000 and above or the
annual payroll is over $1,800,000 or the increase in employment is over 125 FTE
jobs, then the abatement percentage may be based on the scale of the project
for a period of no more than ten years.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.23  STANDARDS FOR TAX ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The following factors, among others, shall be considered in
determining whether to grant tax abatement and, if so, the percentage of value
to be abated and the duration of the tax abatement:
      (1)   Value of land and existing improvements, if any;
      (2)   Type and value of proposed improvements;
      (3)   Productive life of proposed improvements;
      (4)   Number of existing jobs to be retained by proposed improvements;
      (5)   Number of type of new jobs to be created by proposed improvements;
      (6)   Amount of local payroll to be created;
      (7)   Whether the new jobs to be created will be filled by persons
residing or projected to reside within affected taxing jurisdictions;
      (8)   Amount of local sales taxes to be generated directly;
      (9)   Amount property tax base valuation will be increased during term of
abatement and after abatement, which shall include a definitive commitment that
such valuation shall not be less than $1,000,000 or, if less than $1,000,000,
add 50 new full-time employees;
      (10)   The costs to be incurred by the city to provide new facilities or
services directly resulting from the new improvements;
      (11)   The amount of ad valorem taxes to be paid the city during the
abatement period  considering: the existing values; the percentage of new value
abated; the abatement period; and the value after expiration of the abatement
period;
      (12)   The population growth of the city that occurs directly as a result
of new improvements;
      (13)   The types and values of public improvements, if any, to be made by
applicant seeking abatement;
      (14)   Whether the proposed improvements compete with existing businesses
to the detriment of the local economy;
      (15)   The impact on the business opportunities of existing businesses;
      (16)   The attraction of other new businesses to the area;
      (17)   The overall compatibility with the zoning ordinances and
comprehensive plan for the area; and
      (18)   Whether the project is environmentally compatible with no negative
impact on quality of life perceptions.
   (B)   Each eligible facility shall be reviewed on its merits utilizing the
factors provided above. After such review, abatement may be denied entirely or
may be granted to the extent deemed appropriate after full evaluation.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.24  DENIAL OF TAX ABATEMENT; TAXABILITY.
   (A)   Neither a reinvestment zone nor abatement agreement shall be
authorized if it is determined that:
      (1)   There would be a substantial adverse affect on the provision of
government service or tax base;
      (2)   The applicant has insufficient financial capacity;
      (3)   Planned or potential use of the property would constitute a hazard
to public safety, health or morals;
      (4)   Violation of other codes or laws; or
      (5)   Any other reason deemed appropriate by the City Council.
   (B)   From the execution of the abatement to the end of the abatement
period, taxes shall be payable as follows:
      (1)   The value of ineligible property as provided in §
36.21(E) of this chapter shall be fully taxable;
      (2)   The base year value of existing eligible property as determined
each year shall be fully taxable;
      (3)   The additional value of new eligible property shall be taxed in the
manner, at the percentage and for the term of the abatement agreement; and
      (4)   The additional value of new eligible property shall be fully
taxable at the end of the abatement period.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.25  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any present or potential owner of taxable property in the city may
request the creation of a reinvestment zone and tax abatement by filing a
written application with the city. The application shall be submitted to the
Mayor or City Administrator and shall then be forwarded to the City Council for
final disposition.
   (B)   The application shall consist of a completed application form which
shall provide detailed information on the items described above; a map and
property description; and a time schedule for undertaking and completing the
planned improvements. In the case of modernization, a statement of the assessed
value of the facility, separately stated for real and personal property, shall
be given for the tax year immediately preceding the application. The
application form may require such financial and other information as may be
deemed appropriate for evaluating the financial capacity and other factors of
the applicant.
   (C)   (1)   The city shall give notice as provided by the Texas Property Tax
Code, i.e.:
         (a)   Written notice to the presiding officer of the governing body of
each taxing unit in which the property to be subject to the agreement is
located no later than the seventh day before the public hearing; and
         (b)   Publication in a newspaper of general circulation within such
taxing jurisdiction no later than the seventh day before the public hearing.
      (2)   Before acting upon the application, the city shall, through public
hearing, afford the applicant and the designated representative of any
governing body referenced herein to show cause why the abatement should or
should not be granted.
   (D)   The city, no more than 60 days after receipt of the application, shall
by vote of the Council either approve or disapprove the application for tax
abatement. The city shall notify the applicant of approval or disapproval.
   (E)   The city shall not establish a reinvestment zone for the purpose of
abatement if it finds that the request for the abatement was filed after the
commencement of construction, alteration, modernization, expansion or new
facility.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.26  AGREEMENT.
   (A)   After approval of the application, the city shall formally pass a
resolution authorizing the execution of an agreement with the owner of the
facility and/or lessee, as required, which shall include:
      (1)   Estimated value to be abated and the base year value;
      (2)   Percent of value to be abated each year;
      (3)   The commencement date and the termination date of abatement;
      (4)   The proposed use of the facility; nature of construction, time
schedule, map, property description and improvement list as provided in §
36.25(C) of this chapter;
      (5)   Contractual obligations in the event of default, violation of terms
or conditions, delinquent taxes, recapture, administration and assignment as
provided above; and
      (6)   Size of investment, expected annual payroll, number of jobs
created/retained or whatever other factors were determined as the basis for the
approval of the application. The level of these factors shall establish the
contractual requirements to be maintained during the effective term of the
abatement agreement.
   (B)   Such agreement shall normally be executed within 60 days after the
applicant has forwarded all necessary information and documentation to the
city. Interpretation of state law currently prohibits the abatement of any
properties for a period greater than ten years. No agreement shall exceed ten
years or any duration not in accordance with state law.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.27  RECAPTURE.
   (A)   In the event that the company or individual allows its ad valorem
taxes owed the city to become delinquent and fails to timely and properly
follow the legal procedures for their protest and/or contest; or violates any
of the terms and conditions of the abatement agreement and fails to cure during
the cure period in and after described, the agreement then may be terminated
and all taxes previously abated by virtue of the agreement will be recaptured
and paid within 30 days of the termination.
   (B)   Should the city determine that the company or individual is in default
according to the terms and conditions of its agreement, the city shall notify
the company or individual of such default in writing at the address stated in
the agreement and, if such is not cured within 30 days from the date of such
notice (“cure period”), then the agreement may be terminated.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.28  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Chief Appraiser of the County Appraisal District will annually
determine an assessment of the real and personal property comprising the
reinvestment zone. Each year, the company or individual receiving abatement
shall furnish the appraiser with such information as may be necessary for the
abatement. Once value has been established, the Chief Appraiser will notify the
city of the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   The abatement agreement shall stipulate that employees and/or
designated representatives of the city will have access to the reinvestment
zone during the term of the abatement to inspect the facility to determine if
the terms and conditions of the agreement are being met. All inspections will
be made only after the giving of 24 hours’ prior notice and will only be
conducted in such manner as to not unreasonably interfere with the construction
and/or operation of the facility.
   (C)   All inspections will be made with one or more representatives of the
company or individual and in accordance with its safety standards.
   (D)   Upon completion of construction, the designated representative of the
city shall annually evaluate each facility receiving abatement to ensure
compliance with the agreement, and a formal report shall be made to the City
Council regarding the findings of each valuation.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.29  ASSIGNMENT.
   Abatement may be transferred and assigned by the holder to a new owner or
lessee of the same facility upon the approval by resolution of the City Council
subject to the financial capacity of the assignee; and, provided that, all
conditions and obligations in the abatement agreement are guaranteed by the
execution of a new contractual agreement with the city. No assignment or
transfer shall be approved if the parties to the existing agreement, the new
owner or new lessee are liable to any jurisdiction for outstanding taxes or
other obligations. Approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
§ 36.30  SUNSET PROVISION.
   These guidelines and criteria are effective upon the date of their adoption
and will remain in force for two years, unless amended by three-quarters vote
of the City Council, at which time all reinvestment zones and tax abatement
agreements created pursuant to these provisions will be reviewed to determine
whether the goals have been achieved. Based on that review, the guidelines and
criteria may be modified, renewed or eliminated.
(2012 Code, § 80-38)  (Ord. 071602, passed - -2007)
HISTORIC PROPERTY TAX EXEMPTION
§ 36.45  GRANTING OF PARTIAL EXEMPTION.
   Any property which is designated as an historically significant site
pursuant to the terms of this subchapter and which is substantially
rehabilitated as provided herein shall have an assessed value for ad valorem
tax purposes equal to the assessed value of the property for the tax year
immediately prior to the renovation, for a period of four to eight years
following the completion of the renovation, these years being determined on a
case by case basis. Only the historic structure and the land reasonably
necessary for access to, and use of, the structure shall be subject to the tax
valuation freeze. The valuation freeze period shall begin on the first day of
the tax year following completion of the rehabilitation project.
(2012 Code, § 80-51)
§ 36.46  DESIGNATION OF SITES; REQUIREMENTS FOR ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, all structures 50 years old or
older which are within the boundaries of the Downtown Commercial District and
are designated as historically significant sites in need of tax relief to
encourage their preservation.
(2012 Code, § 80-52)
   (B)   To be eligible for a property tax valuation freeze, a property must
meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The property must meet the requirements for designation as a
historically significant site in need of tax relief as defined in division (A)
above.
      (2)   The property must meet all requirements for application,
certification and verification as set forth below.
(2012 Code, § 80-53)
§ 36.47  APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Applications for an historic structure preservation tax abatement
pursuant to this subchapter are to be filed with the preservation officer (if
none, then the City Administrator), who shall be the agent for the city for the
purposes of administering this subchapter. Each application shall be signed and
sworn by the owner of the property and shall:
      (1)   State the legal description of the property proposed for
certification;
      (2)   Include an affidavit by the owner stating the structure is 50 years
old or older and is located within the Downtown Commercial District;
      (3)   Include detailed plans and/or descriptions of the proposed work
demonstrating rehabilitation;
      (4)   Include cost estimates indicating the repair or rehabilitation of
the exterior of the building will equal or exceed 20% of the most recent tax
valuation of the structure or $20,000, whichever is less. Include a projection
of the estimated construction time and predicted completion date of the
historic repair or rehabilitation;
      (5)   Authorize the members of the city’s Main Street Board of Directors,
the City Administrator or designee and/or elected officials to visit and
inspect the property proposed for certification to verify that it is in need of
substantial repair or rehabilitation and to verify repair or rehabilitation;
      (6)   Contain a signed application for a certificate of appropriateness
to determine compliance for any exterior modifications to the property for the
duration of the period during which the tax freeze is in effect;
      (7)   Include a tax certificate showing all taxes due upon the property
have been paid; and
      (8)   Provide any additional information to the Main Street Board of
Directors which the owner or committee deems relevant or useful such as the
history of the structure, access to the structure by the public or any proposed
changes in use of the structure.
   (B)   Each application shall contain sufficient documentation confirming or
supporting the information submitted therein.
(2012 Code, § 80-54)
§ 36.48  CERTIFICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the sworn application, the preservation officer shall
forward the application to the Main Street Board of Directors for review. The
Main Street Board of Directors shall review the proposed rehabilitation. The
Main Street Board of Directors shall recommend to the City Council whether the
structure shall be eligible for the tax exemption. The Board may recommend
approval of the application submitted, approval with conditions or denial. The
written recommendation of the Main Street Board of Directors shall be delivered
to the City Administrator no more than 45 days after submission of the
application to the preservation officer by the applicant.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the recommendation of the Main Street Board of
Directors, the City Administrator shall, within 30 days, place the matter upon
the City Council agenda for determination of eligibility. In determining
eligibility, the City Council shall first determine that all the requirements
of this subchapter have been met and that only the historic property and the
land reasonably necessary for access to, and use thereof is to be provided
favorable tax relief as provided in §
36.45 of this chapter. If eligibility is determined, the Council shall
authorize the City Administrator to execute a tax abatement certificate upon
verification of completion.
(2012 Code, § 80-55)
§ 36.49  VERIFICATION PROCESS.
   Upon completion of the repair or rehabilitation, the certified applicant
shall submit to the preservation officer a sworn statement of completion
acknowledging that the structure has been substantially repaired or
rehabilitated in accordance with the plan approved by the Main Street Board of
Directors and City Council. Applicant must also present documentation verifying
that the cost of repair or rehabilitation meets or exceeds the amounts
established in §
36.47 of this chapter. The preservation officer, upon receipt of the sworn
statement of completion, but no later than 30 days thereafter, shall make an
investigation of the property and shall determine if the property has been
substantially completed as required for certification. If the repair or
renovation deviated in any way from the construction plan approved by Council,
the Main Street Board of Directors shall determine whether the modifications
are in accordance with the original application. If verification of completion
shall be deemed unfavorable, the certified applicant shall be required to
complete or correct the repair or rehabilitation in order to obtain the tax
exemption provided by this subchapter. If the verification of completion is
favorable, the preservation office shall notify the City Administrator in
writing of the compliance. Thereafter, the City Administrator shall execute a
tax abatement certificate and forward the same to the Tax Assessor/Collector
for the county.
(2012 Code, § 80-56)
§ 36.50  ALTERATION OR DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   If the preservation officer or a member of the Main Street Board of
Directors has reason to believe that an exempted structure has been altered or
totally or partially destroyed by the willful act or negligence of the owner or
his or her representative, the preservation officer shall immediately cause the
matter to be scheduled for the earliest practical consideration by the City
Council. If, after giving notice and hearing to the owner, the City Council
determines that the exempted structure has been totally or partially destroyed
or altered by the willful act or negligence of the owner of his or her
representative, the owner shall immediately repay to the city all of the tax
revenues that were not paid because of the exemption, plus interest calculated
at an annual rate of 6%.
   (B)   (1)   Where an exempted structure is totally or partially destroyed or
altered by other than the willful act or negligence of the owner or his or her
representative, the owner shall, within 30 days, request a demolition permit
when repair is not feasible, or request a building permit to reconstruct the
historically significant site, in accordance with the development codes of the
city and the approved plans for that structure.
      (2)   Renovation is hereby deemed feasible when destruction or alteration
is 50% or less of the structural value of the building.
      (3)   In cases where a demolition permit is issued by the city because
renovation is not feasible, repayment of tax revenue is not required.
(2012 Code, § 80-57)
§ 36.51  TRANSFERABILITY TO FUTURE OWNER(S).
   This subchapter is effective for structures renovated after 1-1-2004.
Exemptions are transferable to new owners during the tax freeze period with
City Council approval.
(2012 Code, § 80-58)
§ 36.52  USE IN CONJUNCTION WITH OTHER TAX INCENTIVES.
   (A)   (1)   At the discretion of the City Council, the tax freeze provided
in this subchapter may be used in conjunction with tax abatements provided in
§§
36.20 through
36.30 of this chapter.
      (2)   The applicant must meet all requirements for each tax abatement
separately in order to be considered for both abatements.
   (B)   This tax freeze may be used in conjunction with other types of
abatements that may be developed in the future, unless otherwise prohibited by
statute or by ordinance.
(2012 Code, § 80-59)
HOTEL/MOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 36.65  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSIDERATION. The cost of a room ordinarily used for sleeping in a hotel.
CONSIDERATION does not include the cost of any food served or any personal
services performed other than those related to the cleaning and reading for
occupancy of a hotel room.
   HOTEL/MOTEL. A building within the city or its statutory extraterritorial
jurisdiction in which members of the public obtain sleeping accommodations for
consideration. The term includes a hotel, motel, tourist home, tourist house,
tourist court, lodging house, inn or rooming house, but does not include a
hospital, sanitarium or nursing home.
   OCCUPANCY. The use or possession, or the right to the use or possession of a
hotel room ordinarily used for sleeping, for a period of less than 30
consecutive days.
   OCCUPANT. One who has the right of occupancy of a hotel room ordinarily used
for sleeping.
   PERSONS. Any individual, company, association or cooperation that owns,
controls, operates or manages a hotel.
   QUALIFYING ENTITY. Any entity, public or private, proposing to use HOT funds
solely for the purposes authorized by Tex. Tax Code § 351.101.
   TAX COLLECTOR. The Tax Collector of the City of Clifton, Texas.
(Ord. 131201, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 36.66  COLLECTION; PAYMENT; ACCOUNTING.
   The hotel/motel occupancy tax shall be collected by the person who operates
a hotel/motel and shall be remitted with a hotel/motel tax return to the Tax
Collector, on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15, annually, for the
calendar quarter immediately preceding the remittance date, less an
administrative fee to be retained by the person who remits the tax of 1% of the
amount remitted. The Tax Collector shall mail to each hotel/motel operator a
tax return before the end of the calendar quarter in which the hotel occupancy
tax is due.
(Ord. 131201, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 36.67  EXPENDITURE OF PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of the hotel/motel occupancy tax shall be expended only for the
purposes authorized by Tex. Tax Code § 351.101.
(Ord. 131201, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 36.68  PENALTY PERCENTAGE.
   If the person required to remit the hotel/motel occupancy tax to the Tax
Collector fails to do so when the tax is due, the person shall pay a penalty of
5% of the tax due and shall pay an additional penalty of 5% of the tax due for
every 30-day period in which the tax due remains delinquent.
(Ord. 131201, passed 12-10-2013)
§ 36.69  CONTRACTS.
   The City Council is authorized, and the Mayor and City Administrator are
hereby directed, to enter into contracts in conformity with the provisions of
Tex. Tax Code § 351.101 with any qualifying entity for the management and
supervision of activities to be funded with tax revenue designated for
expenditure under this subchapter for the purposes authorized by Tex. Tax Code
§ 351.101(a)(3); provided that, the entity shall accept the duties then imposed
upon it by law, and shall faithfully:
   (A)   Submit an annual budget for those expenditures to be approved by the
City Council;
   (B)   Submit quarterly reports to the City Council listing expenditures; and
   (C)   Maintain the revenue provided from the tax authorized by this
subchapter in a separate account established for that purpose.
(Ord. 131201, passed 12-10-2013)
CHAPTER 37:  RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Section
   
37.01   Definitions
   
37.02   City records generally
   
37.03   Municipal records declared public property
   
37.04   Policy
   
37.05   Records Management Officer; designation; duties
   
37.06   Plan to be developed; approval and authority
   
37.07   Department heads; duties and responsibilities
   
37.08   Records control schedules; implementation; filing with state
   
37.09   Destruction of unscheduled records
§ 37.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The officer who by ordinance or administrative policy is in
charge of an office of the city that creates or receives records.
   DIRECTOR and LIBRARIAN. The executive and administrative officer of the
state’s Library and Archives Commission.
   ESSENTIAL RECORD. Any record of the city necessary to the resumption or
continuation of its operations in an emergency or disaster, to the recreation
of its legal and financial status or to the protection and fulfillment of
obligations to the people of the state.
   PERMANENT RECORD. Any record of the city for which the retention period on a
records control schedule is given as permanent.
   RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE. A document prepared by or under the authority of
the Records Management Officer listing the records maintained by the city,
their retention periods and other records disposition information that the
records management program may require.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT. The application of management techniques to the
creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation and disposal of records for
the purposes of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of
recordkeeping. The term includes the development of records control schedules,
the management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports
and correspondence and the management of micrographics and electronic and other
records storage systems.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER. The person designated in §
37.05(A) of this chapter.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan developed under §
37.06 of this chapter.
   RETENTION PERIOD. The minimum time that must pass after the creation,
recording or receipt of a record or the fulfillment of certain actions
associated with a record, before it is eligible for destruction.
(2012 Code, § 2-346)
Statutory reference:
   Definitions pertaining to local government records, see Tex. Local
Government Code § 201.003 and Tex. Government Code § 441.151
§ 37.02  CITY RECORDS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The following are declared to be the records of the city and shall be
created, maintained and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or procedures authorized by it and in no other manner: every document,
paper, letter, book, map, photograph, sound or video recording, microfilm,
magnetic tape, electronic medium or other information recording medium,
regardless of physical form or characteristic and regardless of whether public
access to it is open or restricted under the laws of the state, created or
received by the city or any of its officers or employees pursuant to law,
including an ordinance, or in the transaction of public business.
   (B)   The term does not include:
      (1)   Extra identical copies of documents created only for convenience of
reference or research by officers or employees of the city;
      (2)   Notes, journals, diaries and similar documents created by an
officer or employee of the city for the officer’s or employee’s personal
convenience;
      (3)   Blank forms;
      (4)   Stocks of publications;
      (5)   Library and museum materials acquired solely for the purposes of
reference or display;
      (6)   Copies of documents in any media furnished to members of the public
to which they are entitled under Tex. Government Code Ch. 552, or other state
law; or
      (7)   Any records, correspondence, notes, memoranda or other documents
associated with a matter conducted under an alternative dispute resolution
procedure in which personnel of a state department or institution, local
government, special district or other political subdivision of the state
participated as a party, facilitated as an impartial third party or facilitated
as the administrator of a dispute resolution system or organization.
(2012 Code, § 2-347)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Local Government Code § 201.003(8)
§ 37.03  MUNICIPAL RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All municipal records are declared to be the property of the city. No
municipal official or employee has, by virtue of his or her position, any
personal or property right to such records even though he or she may have
developed or compiled them. The unauthorized destruction, removal from files or
use of such records is prohibited.
(2012 Code, § 2-348)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Declaration of local government records as public property, see Tex. Local
Government Code § 201.005
§ 37.04  POLICY.
   It is declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use and disposition of all municipal records through
a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for their management from
creation to ultimate disposition, consistent with the requirements of the Local
Government Records Act (Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 201 et seq.) and
accepted records management practice.
(2012 Code, § 2-349)
Statutory reference:
   Purpose of Local Government Records Act, see Tex. Local Government Code §
201.002
§ 37.05  RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER; DESIGNATION; DUTIES.
   (A)   (1)   The City Secretary, and the successive holders of that office,
shall serve as Records Management Officer for the city.
      (2)   As provided by state law, each successive holder of the office
shall file his or her name with the Director and Librarian within 30 days of
the initial designation or of taking up the office, as applicable.
(2012 Code, § 2-350)
   (B)   In addition to other duties assigned in this chapter or by law, the
Records Management Officer shall:
      (1)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
      (2)   Plan, formulate and prescribe records disposition policies,
systems, standards and procedures;
      (3)   In cooperation with department heads, identify essential records
and establish a disaster plan for each city office and department to ensure
maximum availability of the records in order to reestablish operations quickly
and with minimum disruption and expense;
      (4)   Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the city;
      (5)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for
recordkeeping supplies;
      (6)   Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform
filing system and a forms design and control system for the city;
      (7)   Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued
by the state’s Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management program and the city’s records control schedules are in compliance
with state regulations;
      (8)   Disseminate to the Council and department heads information
concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government
records;
      (9)   Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming,
destruction or other disposition of the records of the city are carried out in
accordance with the policies and procedures of the records management program
and the requirements of state law;
      (10)   Maintain records on the volume of records destroyed under approved
records control schedules or through records destruction authorization
requests, the volume of records microfilmed or stored electronically and the
estimated cost and space savings as the result of such disposal or disposition;
      (11)   Report annually to the Council on the implementation of the
records management plan in each department of the city, including summaries of
the statistical and fiscal data compiled under division (B)(10) above; and
      (12)   Bring to the attention of the Council non-compliance by department
heads or other city personnel with the policies and procedures of the records
management program or the Local Government Records Act (Tex. Local Government
Code Ch. 201 et seq.).
(2012 Code, § 2-352)
Statutory reference:
   Designation of Records Management Officer, see Tex. Local Government Code §
203.025
   Duties of Records Management Officer, see Tex. Local Government Code §
203.023
§ 37.06  PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer shall develop a records management plan
for the city for submission to the Council. The plan must contain policies and
procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the efficiency of
recordkeeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the city, and to
properly preserve those records of the city that are of historical value. The
plan must be designed to enable the Records Management Officer to carry out his
or her duties prescribed by state law and this chapter effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the Council, the records management plan shall be
binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions, bureaus,
boards, committees or similar entities of the city; and records shall be
created, maintained, stored, microfilmed or disposed of in accordance with the
plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities or
recordkeeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department
head or the records in the department head’s care from the application of this
chapter and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used by
the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management program of the city.
(2012 Code, § 2-351)
Statutory reference:
   Custodians of records required to participate in records management program,
see  Tex. Local Government Code § 203.022(b)
   Records management program to be established, see Tex. Local Government Code
§ 203.026
§ 37.07  DEPARTMENT HEADS; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this chapter, department heads
shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with the Records Management Officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the city for the efficient and
economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of this
chapter;
   (B)   Adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs and duties for which the department head and his or her
staff are responsible; and
   (C)   Maintain the records in his or her care and carry out their
preservation, microfilming, destruction or other disposition only in accordance
with the policies and procedures of the records management program of the city
and the requirements of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 2-353)
§ 37.08  RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES; IMPLEMENTATION; FILING WITH STATE.
   (A)   (1)   The Records Management Officer, in cooperation with department
heads, shall prepare records control schedules on a department-by-department
basis, listing all records series created or received by the department and the
retention period for each series. Records control schedules shall also
contain such other information regarding the disposition of municipal records
as the records management plan may require.
      (2)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as
needed by the Records Management Officer on a regular basis to ensure that it
is in compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state and that
it continues to reflect the recordkeeping procedures and needs of the
department and records management program of the city.
      (3)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule or amended schedule
for a department must be approved by the department head and the Council.
      (4)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule must be submitted
to and accepted for filing by the Director and Librarian as provided by state
law. If a schedule is not accepted for filing, the schedule shall be amended to
make it acceptable for filing. The Records Management Officer shall submit the
records control schedules to the Director and Librarian.
(2012 Code, § 2-354)
   (B)   (1)   A records control schedule for a department that has been
approved and adopted under division (A) above shall be implemented by
department heads according to the policies and procedures of the records
management plan.
      (2)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending law suit or
the department head requests in writing to the Records Management Officer that
the record be retained for an additional period.
      (3)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records
control schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the
Records Management Officer from the Council.
(2012 Code, § 2-355)
Statutory reference:
   Records control schedules, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 203.041 et seq.
   Records retention schedules, see Tex. Government Code § 441.158
   Retention periods, see Tex. Local Government Code § 203.042
§ 37.09  DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the Director and
Librarian approved destruction authorization request.
(2012 Code, § 2-356)
CHAPTER 38:  CIVIL EMERGENCIES
Section
General Provisions
   
38.01   NIMS adopted
Emergency Management
   
38.15   Organization
   
38.16   Emergency Management Director; powers and duties
   
38.17   Emergency management plan
   
38.18   Interjurisdictional program
   
38.19   Override
   
38.20   Liability
   
38.21   Commitment of funds
   
38.22   Violations; offenses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 38.01  NIMS ADOPTED.
   The City Council hereby adopts the National Incident Management System dated
3-1-2004.
(2012 Code, § 22-1)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 38.15  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There exists the office of Emergency Management Director of the city,
which shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
   (B)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Director.
   (C)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the city and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this subchapter. He or she may delegate authority
for execution shall remain with the Director.
   (D)   The operational emergency management organization of the city shall
consist of the officers and employees of the city so designated by the Director
in the emergency management plan, as well as organized volunteer groups. The
functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed among such
officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the emergency management
plan.
(2012 Code, § 22-31)
§ 38.16  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall
include the following:
   (A)   Surveying actual or potential hazards which threaten life and property
within the city and identifying and requiring or recommending the
implementation of measures which would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce
the impact of such hazards if a disaster did occur;
   (B)   Supervision of the development and approval of an emergency management
plan for the city, and shall recommend for adoption by the City Council all
mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of such plan;
   (C)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster. The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days, except by or
with the consent of the City Council. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the City Secretary;
   (D)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations or directives which
are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this subchapter. Such
proclamations, regulations or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the City Secretary;
   (E)   Direction and control of the operations of the city emergency
management organization as well as the training of emergency management
personnel;
   (F)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the emergency management organization of the city;
   (G)   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district, state,
regional or federal emergency management organizations;
   (H)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from any
department of the city to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
emergency management plan;
   (I)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local political
subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed desirable,
of an agreement with the county in which said city is located and with other
municipalities within the county, for the county-wide coordination of emergency
management efforts;
   (J)   Supervision of, and final authorization for the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the city;
   (K)   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the City Attorney, for
use of private property for public shelter and other purposes;
   (L)   Surveying the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies
and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for herein; and
   (M)   Other requirements as specified in the state’s Disaster Act (Tex.
Government Code Ch. 418).
(2012 Code, § 22-32)
§ 38.17  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A comprehensive emergency management plan shall be developed and maintained
in a current state. The plan shall set forth the form of the organization;
establish and designate divisions and functions; assign responsibilities,
tasks, duties and powers; and designate officers and employees to carry out the
provisions of this subchapter. As provided by state law, the plan shall follow
the standards and criteria established by the state’s Division of Emergency
Management. Insofar as possible, the form of organization, titles and
terminology shall conform to the recommendations of the state’s Division of
Emergency Management. When approved, it shall be the duty of all departments
and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the plan and to maintain
their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at all times. The
emergency management plan shall be considered supplementary to this subchapter
and have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
(2012 Code, § 22-33)
§ 38.18  INTERJURISDICTIONAL PROGRAM.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge and the mayors
of the other cities in said county in the formation of an interjurisdictional
emergency management program for the county and shall have the authority to
cooperate in the preparation of an interjurisdictional emergency management
plan and in the appointment of a joint Emergency Management Coordinator, as
well as all powers necessary to participate in a county-wide program of
emergency management insofar as said program may affect the city.
(2012 Code, § 22-34)
§ 38.19  OVERRIDE.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this subchapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede and
override all existing ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the
latter may be inconsistent therewith.
(2012 Code, § 22-35)
§ 38.20  LIABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither
the city, the agents and representatives of the city, nor any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or trustee, nor any of
the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to
persons as the result of said activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants to the city a license of privilege,
or otherwise permits the city to inspect, designate and use the whole or any
part or parts of such real estate or premises for the purpose of sheltering
persons during an actual, impending, or practice enemy attack or natural or
human-made disaster shall, together with his or her successors in interest, if
any, not be civilly liable for the death of, or injury to, any person on or
about such real estate or premises under such license, privilege or other
permission or for loss of, or damage to, the property of such person.
(2012 Code, § 22-36)
§ 38.21  COMMITMENT OF FUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the city
in carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this subchapter
without prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have any right
to bind the city by contract, agreement or otherwise without prior and specific
approval of the City Council unless during a declared disaster.
   (B)   During a declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or commit public
funds of the city when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of
health, life or property.
(2012 Code, § 22-37)
§ 38.22  VIOLATIONS; OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder or
delay any member of the emergency management organization in the enforcement of
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or display
any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member of the
emergency management organization of the city, unless authority to do so has
been granted to such person by the proper officials.
   (C)   Convictions for violations of the provisions of this subchapter shall
be punishable by fine.
(2012 Code, § 22-38)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 39:  ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
39.01   Labor rates
Claims Against City
   
39.15   City’s liability
   
39.16   Required action by plaintiff
   
39.17   Service of notices
   
39.18   Waiver of notice
   
39.19   Notice to be sworn to
Identity Theft Prevention
   
39.30   Purpose
   
39.31   Definitions
   
39.32   Identification of red flags
   
39.33   Suspicious document red flags
   
39.34   Suspicious personal identifying information red flags
   
39.35   Suspicious or unusual use of account activity red flags
   
39.36   Red flag alerts from others
   
39.37   Detecting red flags
   
39.38   Preventing and mitigating identity theft
   
39.39   Program updates
   
39.40   Program administration
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 39.01  LABOR RATES.
   Labor, per city employee, shall be $16 per hour, with a two-hour minimum.
(Ord. 140602, passed 6-10-2014)
CLAIMS AGAINST CITY
§ 39.15  CITY’S LIABILITY.
   The city shall never be liable for any claim for property damage or for
personal injury, whether such personal injury results in death or not, unless
the person damaged or injured, or someone in his or her behalf or, if the
injury results in death, the persons who may have a cause of action under the
law by reason of such death or injury, shall, within six months from the date
the damage or injury was received, give notice in writing to the Mayor and City
Council of the following facts:
   (A)   The date and time when the injury occurred and the place where the
injured person or property was at the time when the injury was received;
   (B)   The nature of the damage or injury sustained;
   (C)   The apparent extent of the damage of injury sustained;
   (D)   A specific and detailed statement of how and under what circumstances
the damage or injury occurred;
   (E)   The amount for which each claimant will settle;
   (F)   The actual place of residence of each claimant by street, number, city
and state on the date the claim is presented;
   (G)   In the case of personal injury or death, the names and addresses of
all persons who, according to the knowledge or information of the claimant,
witnessed the happening of the injury or any part of such happening and the
names of the doctors, if any, to whose care the injured person is committed;
and
   (H)   In the case of property damage, the location of the damaged property
at the time the claim was submitted along with the names and addresses of all
persons who witnessed the happening of the damage or any part of the happening.
(2012 Code, § 2-306)
§ 39.16  REQUIRED ACTION BY PLAINTIFF.
   No suit of any nature whatsoever shall be instituted or maintained against
the city unless the plaintiff shall ever prove that previous to the filing of
the original petition the plaintiff applied to the City Council for redress,
satisfaction, compensation or relief, as the case may be, which was by vote of
the City Council refused.
(2012 Code, § 2-307)
§ 39.17  SERVICE OF NOTICES.
   All notices required by this subchapter shall be effectuated by serving them
upon the City Secretary at the following location: 403 West 3rd Street,
Clifton, Texas. All such notices shall be effective only when actually received
in the office of the Secretary.
(2012 Code, § 2-308)
§ 39.18  WAIVER OF NOTICE.
   The written notice requirements of §
39.17 of this chapter shall be waived if the city has actual knowledge of
death, injury or property damage likely to result in a claim against the city.
The city shall not be deemed to have actual knowledge unless that knowledge is
attributable to an appropriate city official whose job duties include the
authority to investigate and/or settle claims against the city.
(2012 Code, § 2-309)
§ 39.19  NOTICE TO BE SWORN TO.
   The written notice required under this subchapter shall be sworn to by the
person claiming the damage or injuries or by someone authorized by him or her
to do so on his or her behalf. Failure to swear to the notice as required in
this section shall not render the notice fatally defective, but failure to so
verify the notice may be considered by the City Council as a factor relating to
the truth of the allegations and to the weight to be given to the allegations
contained in the allegations.
(2012 Code, § 2-310)
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION
§ 39.30  PURPOSE.
   (A)   To establish an identity theft prevention program designed to detect,
prevent and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered
account or an existing covered account and to provide for continued
administration of the program in compliance with 16 C.F.R. part 681,
implementing §§ 114 and 315 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act
(FACTA) of 2003, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 1681 et seq. Every financial institution
and creditor is required to establish an identity theft prevention program
tailored to its size, complexity and the nature of its operation.
   (B)   The program must contain reasonable policies and procedures to:
      (1)   Identify relevant red flags for new and existing covered accounts
and incorporate those red flags into the program;
      (2)   Detect red flags that have been incorporated into the program;
      (3)   Respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to prevent
and mitigate identity theft; and
      (4)   Ensure the program is updated periodically, to reflect changes in
risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the creditor from identity
theft.
(2012 Code, § 2-500)
§ 39.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COVERED ACCOUNT. Any utility account the city offers or maintains primarily
for personal, family or household purposes, that involves multiple payments or
transactions; and any other account the city offers or maintains for which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the staff from identity theft.
   CREDITORS. Finance companies, automobile dealers, mortgage brokers, staff
companies and telecommunications companies. Where non-profit and government
entities defer payment for goods or services, they, too, are to be considered
CREDITORS.
   IDENTIFYING INFORMATION. Any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including: name; address; telephone number; Social Security number; date of
birth; government-issued driver’s license or identification number; alien
registration number; government passport number; employer or taxpayer
identification number; unique electronic identification number; computer’s
Internet protocol address; or routing code.
   IDENTITY THEFT. Fraud committed using the identifying information of another
person.
   RED FLAG. A pattern, practice or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
(2012 Code, § 2-501)
§ 39.32  IDENTIFICATION OF RED FLAGS.
   (A)   In order to identify relevant red flags, the City Administrator
considers the types of accounts that the city offers and maintains, the methods
provided to open accounts, the methods provided to access accounts and previous
experiences with identity theft.
   (B)   The City Administrator identifies the following red flags in each of
the listed categories:
      (1)   Red flag notifications and warnings from consumer credit reporting
agencies;
      (2)   Report of fraud accompanying a consumer credit report;
      (3)   Notice or report from a consumer credit agency of a credit freeze
on a customer or applicant;
      (4)   Notice or report from a consumer credit agency of an active duty
alert for an applicant; and
      (5)   Indication from a consumer credit report of activity that is
inconsistent with a customer’s usual pattern or activity, including, but not
limited to:
         (a)   Recent and significant increase in volume of inquiries;
         (b)   Unusual number of recent credit applications;
         (c)   A material change in use of credit; and
         (d)   Accounts closed for cause or abuse.
(2012 Code, § 2-502)
§ 39.33  SUSPICIOUS DOCUMENT RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Identification document or card that appears to be forged, altered or
inauthentic;
   (B)   Identification document or card on which a person’s photograph or
physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the document;
   (C)   Other document with information that is not consistent with existing
customer information (such as if a person’s signature on a check appears
forged); and
   (D)   Application for service that appears to have been altered or forged.
(2012 Code, § 2-503)
§ 39.34  SUSPICIOUS PERSONAL IDENTIFYING INFORMATION RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with other
information the customer provides (example: inconsistent birth dates; lack of
correlation between Social Security number range and date of birth);
   (B)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with other
sources of information (for instance: Social Security number or an address not
matching an address on a credit report);
   (C)   Identifying information presented that is the same as information
shown on other applications that were found to be fraudulent;
   (D)   Identifying information presented that is consistent with fraudulent
activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing address);
   (E)   Social Security number presented that is the same as one given by
another customer;
   (F)   An address or phone number presented that is the same as that of
another person;
   (G)   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying information on
an application when reminded to do so (however, by law, Social Security numbers
must not be required) or an applicant cannot provide information requested
beyond what could commonly be found in a purse or wallet; and
   (H)   A person’s identifying information is not consistent with the
information that is on file for the customer.
(2012 Code, § 2-504)
§ 39.35  SUSPICIOUS OR UNUSUAL USE OF ACCOUNT ACTIVITY RED FLAGS.
   (A)   Change of address for an account followed by a request to change the
account holder’s name;
   (B)   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
   (C)   Account used in a way that is not consistent with prior use (example:
very high activity);
   (D)   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
   (E)   Notice to the city staff that a customer is not receiving mail sent by
the city staff;
   (F)   Notice to the city staff that an account has unauthorized activity;
   (G)   Breach in the utility’s computer system security; and
   (H)   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
(2012 Code, § 2-505)
§ 39.36  RED FLAG ALERTS FROM OTHERS.
   Notice from a customer, identity theft victim, fraud detection service, law
enforcement or other person that it has opened or is maintaining a fraudulent
account for a person engaged in identity theft.
(2012 Code, § 2-506)
§ 39.37  DETECTING RED FLAGS.
   In order to detect any of the red flags identified above, city office staff
personnel will take the following steps to obtain and verify the identity of
the person opening or changing the account:
   (A)   Require certain identifying information such as name, date of birth,
residential or business address, principal place of business for an entity,
driver’s license or other identification;
   (B)   Verify the customer’s identity (for instance, review a driver’s
license or other identification card);
   (C)   Review documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
   (D)   Request additional documentation to establish identity;
   (E)   Independently contact the customer or business;
   (F)   Verify the identification of customers if they request information (in
person, via telephone, via facsimile, via email);
   (G)   Verify the validity of requests to close accounts or change billing
addresses; and
   (H)   Verify changes in banking information given for billing and payment
purposes.
(2012 Code, § 2-507)
§ 39.38  PREVENTING AND MITIGATING IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   In the event city office staff personnel detect an identified red
flags, such personnel shall take one or more of the following steps, depending
on the degree of risk posed by the red flag:
      (1)   Continue to monitor an account for evidence of identity theft;
      (2)   Contact the customer, sometimes through multiple methods;
      (3)   Change any passwords or other security devices that permit access
to accounts;
      (4)   Not open a new account;
      (5)   Close an existing account;
      (6)   Do not close the account, but monitor or contact authorities;
      (7)   Reopen an account with a new number;
      (8)   Notify the City Administrator for determination of the appropriate
step(s) to take;
      (9)   Notify law enforcement; or
      (10)   Determine that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
   (B)   In order to further prevent the likelihood of identity theft occurring
with respect to city accounts, the city office staff will take the following
steps with respect to its internal operating procedures to protect customer
identifying information:
      (1)   Ensure that its website is secure or provide clear notice that the
website is not secure;
      (2)   Where and when allowed, ensure complete and secure destruction of
paper documents and computer files containing customer information;
      (3)   Ensure that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time;
      (4)   Change passwords on office computers on a regular basis;
      (5)   Ensure all computers are backed up properly and any backup
information is secured;
      (6)   Keep offices clear of papers containing customer information;
      (7)   Request only the last four digits of Social Security numbers (if
any);
      (8)   Ensure computer virus protection is up to date; and
      (9)   Require and keep only the kinds of customer information that are
necessary for staff purposes.
(2012 Code, § 2-508)
§ 39.39  PROGRAM UPDATES.
   This program will be periodically reviewed and updated to reflect changes in
risks to customers and the soundness of the city from identity theft. The City
Administrator will consider the city’s experiences with identity theft
situation, changes in identity theft methods, changes in identity theft
detection and prevention methods, changes in types of accounts the staff
maintains and changes in the city’s business arrangements with other entities,
consult with law enforcement authorities and consult with other city personnel.
After considering these factors, the City Administrator will determine whether
changes to the program, including the listing of red flags, are warranted. If
warranted, the City Administrator will update the program or present the City
Council with his or her recommended changes and the City Council will make a
determination of whether to accept, modify or reject those changes to the
program.
(2012 Code, § 2-509)
§ 39.40  PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Responsibility for developing, implementing and updating this program
lies with the City Administrator. The City Administrator will be responsible
for the program administration, for ensuring appropriate training on the
program, for reviewing reports regarding the detection of red flags and the
steps for preventing and mitigating identity theft, determining which steps of
prevention and mitigation should be taken in particular circumstances and
considering periodic changes to the program.
   (B)   Initially, all city office staff shall be trained by the City
Administrator in the detection of red flags, and the responsive steps to be
taken when a red flag is detected. Thereafter, city office staff shall undergo
update training as determined by the City Administrator. Additionally, all new
city office staff employees shall undergo training.
   (C)   In the event the city engages a service provider to perform an
activity in connection with one or more accounts, including, but not limited
to, franchise utility providers, the city will take the following steps to
ensure the service provider performs its activity in accordance with reasonable
policies and procedures designed to detect, prevent and mitigate the risk of
identity theft:
      (1)   Require, by contract or contract amendment, that service providers
have such policies and procedures in place; and
      (2)   Require, by contract or contract amendment, that service providers
review the city’s program and report any red flags to the City Administrator.
   (D)   For the effectiveness of identity theft prevention programs, a degree
of confidentiality regarding the city’s specific practices relating to identity
theft detection, prevention and mitigation. Therefore, under this program,
knowledge of such specific practices are to be limited to those employees who
need to know them for purposes of preventing identity theft. Because this
program is to be adopted by a public body and thus publicly available, it would
be counterproductive to list these specific practices here. Therefore, only the
program’s general red flag detection, implementation and prevention practices
are listed in this document.
(2012 Code, § 2-510)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:  GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Service not to be rendered outside city
   
50.02   Service to new additions
   
50.03   Report of violations
Statutory reference:
   Municipal water and utilities, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 552.001 et
seq.
   Plumbing and sewers, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 214.011 et seq.
   Public utilities, see Tex. Utilities Code Ch. 1 et seq.
   Public Utility Regulatory Act, see Tex. Utilities Code Ch. 11 et seq.
   Water, see Tax Water Code §§ 1.001 et seq.
   Water quality control, see Tex. Water Code §§ 26.001 et seq.
§ 50.01  SERVICE NOT TO BE RENDERED OUTSIDE CITY.
   No city water or sewer lines shall be laid to service any person outside the
city limits without approval.
(2012 Code, § 88-1)
§ 50.02  SERVICE TO NEW ADDITIONS.
   The city will provide water and sewer service to new additions to the city,
subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   The customer shall pay all expenses of laying, installing, cost of
pipe and the like for the water line.
   (B)   A contract shall be signed, before the addition is taken into the
city, that the customer shall not be served with sewer unless he or she is
within 50 feet of a main sewer line.
   (C)   Plats of the new addition shall accompany the petition, which plats
shall be drawn by a licensed engineer and recorded in the county records.
(2012 Code, § 88-2)
§ 50.03  REPORT OF VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of all employees of the city, including officers and
members of the police force, to report to the Public Works Director any
violation of this title which comes to their attention. The Public Works
Director shall report all such violations to the City Council and shall
forthwith proceed to have all such offenders prosecuted.
(2012 Code, § 88-3)
CHAPTER 51:  SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Receptacles
   
51.03   Disposal in compliance with chapter
   
51.04   Collection
   
51.05   Littering streets, sidewalks and other city land
   
51.06   Fees and rates
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRY KITCHEN REFUSE. The solid portions of kitchen refuse after the liquid or
slop has been drained off.
   KITCHEN GARBAGE. Dry kitchen refuse, meat, vegetable and fruit refuse, small
dead animals and dead fowl from any premises.
   PREMISES. Business houses, boardinghouses, offices, theaters, hotels,
restaurants, cafés, eating houses, tourist camps, apartments, sanitariums,
rooming houses, schools, private residences, vacant lots and all other places
within the city where garbage, trash or rubbish accumulates in ordinary
quantities.
   RUBBISH. Tin cans, bottles, glass, scraps of iron, tin, wire or any other
metals from any premises within the city limits.
   TRASH. Papers of all kinds, rags, old clothing, paper containers, old
rubber, pieces of wood, boxes, barrels, crates, feathers, weeds, grass and tree
limbs from any premises within the city limits.
(2012 Code, § 72-1)
§ 51.02  RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   For garbage. It shall be the duty of every person owning, managing,
operating, leasing or renting any premises or any place where kitchen garbage
accumulates to provide a suitable container based on the solid waste
contractor’s requirements. The daily accumulation of kitchen garbage and dry
kitchen refuse from such premises shall be placed in such container.
   (B)   For trash and rubbish. It shall be the duty of every person owning,
managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises to place all trash and
rubbish from such premises in a suitable container based on the solid waste
contractor’s requirements.
   (C)   Placement for collection. Solid waste containers and tree limbs (which
shall be cut into lengths not to exceed four feet and bundled and tied), shall
be placed inside the property line at the edge of the alley or other location
convenient for the picking up of such containers and tree limbs. Such
containers and tree limbs shall in all cases be placed at convenient locations
which are readily accessible to the garbage collector.
   (D)   Maintenance. Containers shall be kept in sanitary condition and closed
tightly. The contents of all containers shall be so protected that the wind
cannot blow out and scatter them over the streets, alleys and premises of the
city.
   (E)   Meddling with, pilfering from, scattering contents. The meddling with
containers or in any way pilfering from the containers or scattering the
contents of containers in any alley or street within the city limits is
strictly prohibited.
(2012 Code, § 72-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03  DISPOSAL IN COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   The disposal of any kitchen garbage, trash or rubbish in any manner other
than that designated in this chapter within the city limits is strictly
prohibited.
(2012 Code, § 72-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04  COLLECTION.
   (A)   The collection of garbage, trash and rubbish within the city limits is
prohibited, except by the city and/or its authorized agents.
(2012 Code, § 72-4)
   (B)   The city and/or its authorized agent will not make collection of
kitchen garbage, trash, rubbish or tree limbs where they are not prepared for
collection and placed as designated by the terms of this chapter. Such failure
to collect shall not affect any prosecution for a violation of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 72-5)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05  LITTERING STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER CITY LAND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, leave or deposit any garbage,
trash, rubbish, waste or refuse of any description in any street, sidewalk,
alley, city park or other land belonging to the city.
(2012 Code, § 72-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06  FEES AND RATES.
   (A)   Charge for city collection. There shall be charged, assessed and
collected for garbage, trash and rubbish collection by the city such fee as
established by the Council.
(2012 Code, § 72-41)
   (B)   Conversion of single-family dwellings for business use. Where single-
family dwellings have been converted to a rooming house or small in-home
business, after proper and due notice, they shall be charged according to the
rates established by the Council.
(2012 Code, § 72-42)
   (C)   Method of charging and billing. All solid waste collection and
disposal charges and fees shall be billed to customers on their water bill. The
fees and charges for solid waste collections shall be shown separately and
distinctly from the water bill and/or other bill incorporated into the water
bill. There will be no proration of service charges for a portion of a billing
period. The charges and fees established and authorized in this section shall
be billed to the party in whose name the water service connection is taken
where the premises are served with water and/or sewer and shall be billed to
the party in control of the premises at other locations; and, if this fact
cannot be ascertained, the bill shall be directed to the record owner of such
premises. The party who is so billed and to whom the services are made
available shall be indebted to the city for the services and shall be obligated
to make payment for such services. The bill will become delinquent ten days
after it is rendered.
(2012 Code, § 72-43)
   (D)   Collection of delinquent fees. In addition to all other legal remedies
available for the collection of a debt, the following actions and remedies are
authorized for delinquent payment of the charges authorized in this section.
      (1)   The sanitation service may refuse to pick up and dispose of the
garbage at the delinquent location.
      (2)   The water and/or sewer service, if any, serving the delinquent
premises in question may be shut off and terminated.
      (3)   All present water utilities guaranty deposits, upon termination of
sanitary service, may be applied to any amount due either for sanitation
service charges or fees of water utility bills.
(2012 Code, § 72-44)
(Ord. 150904, passed 9-8-2015)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Public Works Director
   
52.02   Water not to be furnished in absence of sewer; exception
   
52.03   Water connection required; permit; tapping fees; meters
   
52.04   Unlawful turn on of water
   
52.05   Procuring water by fraud
   
52.06   Interfering with or damaging waterworks property
   
52.07   Water leaks or waste; report
   
52.08   Rates and charges
   
52.09   City reservoirs
Water Conservation
   
52.20   Legislative findings
   
52.21   Plan adopted
   
52.22   Guidelines
Private Water Wells
   
52.35   Permit required
   
52.36   Permit issuance
   
52.37   Connection to city water system
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR.
   (A)   There shall be appointed by the City Administrator a Public Works
Director, who shall be the administrative officer of the waterworks system,
including all engine houses, engines, pumps, reservoirs, standpipes, elevated
tanks, pipe lines, hydrants, meters, wrenches, stopcocks, gate valves, fire
plugs, testing equipment, and all other property and machinery used in or
connected with the waterworks system. He or she shall have general supervision
over all employees of the waterworks system and shall make frequent trips of
inspection over all pipe lines and all other property used in or connected with
the waterworks system, and shall make all repairs deemed necessary and
consistent with his or her duties. He or she shall also attend to and control
the water supply and at all times see to its sufficiency, and shall notify the
community, unless emergency requires otherwise, of the necessity of shutting
off any pipe line for the purpose of making repairs, extensions, connections
and the like should he or she know beforehand the necessity to so shut off the
water from any line or lines of the system.
   (B)   In the performance of his or her duties as required by this section,
the Public Works Director shall be subject at all times to the city ordinances,
rules and regulations. He or she shall serve for such term and receive such
compensation as may be fixed by the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 88-36)
§ 52.02  WATER NOT TO BE FURNISHED IN ABSENCE OF SEWER; EXCEPTION.
   No water service shall be furnished by the city to any customer unless he or
she shall tie on to the city sewer, if a sewer line is within a reasonable
distance. Approval is needed before this can be done.
(2012 Code, § 88-37)
§ 52.03  WATER CONNECTION REQUIRED; PERMIT; TAPPING FEES; METERS.
   (A)   Permit for water connection. It shall be unlawful for any person to
make or permit to be made any connection with the main or service pipes of the
waterworks system or to turn on or use the water of such system, without first
obtaining a permit. Application for such permit shall be filed with the city,
stating fully the several and various uses for which water is wanted, giving
the name of the owner of the property, the number of the lot and block, the
name of the street and house number. If the application is approved by the
city, the permit shall be issued.
(2012 Code, § 88-38)
   (B)   Separate water connections required; exception. Every premises
connected with any water main, or being supplied with any water from the city
waterworks, shall have a separate service connection, meter, curb stop box and
curb cock; provided that, where a residence is not in reach of a city water
main, arrangements may be made, at the option of the city, to secure water from
another user of city water.
(2012 Code, § 88-39)
   (C)   Water tapping fees.
      (1)   The tapping fee for connections with the city water mains and
laterals shall be as established by the Council.
      (2)   The fee referred to in division (C)(1) above shall apply where the
connection is made in dirt or gravel, and there shall be an additional charge
where the excavation is made in paved or improved streets or surfaces.
      (3)   The city shall be reimbursed for the actual cost to put the surface
back to its original condition.
(2012 Code, § 88-40)
   (D)   Water connections to be made by city. Upon the issuance of a permit
under division (A) above and the payment of the tapping fee prescribed by
division (C) above, the Superintendent of the Waterworks shall make, or have
made, the necessary connections and furnish a cast iron curb stop box and curb
cock, the cost of which is included in the tapping fee.
(2012 Code, § 88-41)
   (E)   Setting of water meters. All water meters, whether private or
belonging to the waterworks system, shall be set by the employees of the city.
(2012 Code, § 88-42)
§ 52.04  UNLAWFUL TURN ON OF WATER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to turn on the water supply to any
building or to any supply pipe where the supply has been turned off for the
non-payment of the monthly water charge or for the violation of any rule or
ordinance governing the waterworks system, without authority from the city.
(2012 Code, § 88-43)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05  PROCURING WATER BY FRAUD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resort to any fraudulent device or
arrangement for the purpose of procuring water for himself, herself or others
from private connections on premises contrary to this chapter and other city
regulations or ordinances.
(2012 Code, § 88-44)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06  INTERFERING WITH OR DAMAGING WATERWORKS PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do, commit or assist in
committing any of the following acts in the city:
      (1)   To open or close any fire hydrant or stopcock connected with the
waterworks system of the city or lift or remove the covers of any meter boxes,
gate valves or shut-offs of the system without the permission of the
Superintendent of the Waterworks, except in case of fire, and then under the
direction of officers of the Fire Department;
      (2)   To interfere with, destroy, deface, impair, injure or wantonly
force open any gate or door, or in any way whatsoever destroy, injure or deface
any part of any engine house, reservoir, standpipe, elevated tank, building or
appurtenance, fences, trees, shrubs or fixtures or property appertaining to the
waterworks system;
      (3)   To go upon or ascend the stairway or steps on any elevated water
storage tank or standpipe of the waterworks system, except by permission of the
Waterworks Superintendent;
      (4)   To place any telegraph, telephone or electric light pole or any
obstruction whatsoever within three feet of any fire hydrant;
      (5)   To interfere with or injure any reservoir, tank, fountain, hydrant,
pipe, cock, valve or other apparatus pertaining to the waterworks system, or to
turn on or off without authority the water in any street hydrant or other water
fixture, or to hitch or tie any animal to a fixture;
      (6)   To cover over or conceal from view any water valve box or water
service or meter box; and/or
      (7)   To remove any water meter that has been placed by the city, or to
any manner change, interfere with or tamper with any water meter.
   (B)   The provision of this section shall not apply to the employees of the
city when acting in their official capacity.
(2012 Code, § 88-45)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07  WATER LEAKS OR WASTE; REPORT.
   It shall be the duty of all employees of the city, including officers and
members of the police force, to report to the Superintendent of the Waterworks,
upon blanks furnished for that purpose, any leaks or unnecessary waste of water
that may come to their attention.
(2012 Code, § 88-46)
§ 52.08  RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Service fee. Each water consumer shall pay in addition to the deposit
described in division (F) below a service fee, as established by the Council,
for the turning on of his or her water.
(2012 Code, § 88-47)
   (B)   Rates. Uniform monthly rates, as established by the Council, shall be
charged all persons inside the city limits for the use of city water.
(2012 Code, § 88-48)
   (C)   All metered water to be charged for. All water that passes through the
meter shall be charged for, whether used or not.
(2012 Code, § 88-49)
   (D)   Charges when meter out of order. If a water meter gets out of order
and fails to register, the consumer will be charged at the average daily
consumption, as shown by the meter when in order.
(2012 Code, § 88-50)
   (E)   Charges when one or more residence or business is served by the same
connection.
      (1)   When one or more residence or business is serviced by the same
water connection under the provision of §
52.03(B) of this chapter, the minimum monthly charge prescribed by division (A)
above and §
53.01 of this code of ordinances shall be charged for the one connection and
all other water usage shall be charged according to the rates set forth in
division (A) above and §
53.01 of this code of ordinances for all usage over paid minimum. The minimum
plus all water used over the minimum shall be charged to the customer having
such connection.
      (2)   In the event of any future construction of multi-family dwellings,
whether converted or new construction or where any more than one premises shall
be serviced, there shall be individual meters for each unit, from 1-12-1984
forward.
(2012 Code, § 88-51)
   (F)   Deposit to assure payment.
      (1)   Each water consumer shall deposit with the city an amount
established by the Council to assure the payment of the charges prescribed by
this section. Such deposit may be applied to the payment of any unpaid bills
and, when so used, the deposit shall be restored to the original amount. Any
unused portion of the deposit shall be refunded at any time the account or
service is discontinued.
      (2)   Any consumer that has service terminated due to non-payment shall,
in addition to all delinquent amounts and service fees, pay the additional
amount that brings such consumer’s deposit to the updated total amount as
established by the Council.
      (3)   Any resident, business owner or business having more than one
resident or business, with individual meters shall be required to post a
deposit for each meter, as established by the Council.
(2012 Code, § 88-52)
   (G)   Service generally.
      (1)   Statements for water, sewer and garbage collection services (the
“water bill”) will be sent to customers around the 27th day of each month.
      (2)   Water bills are due by the fifth of each month, and are delinquent
if payment is not received by the fifteenth of that month. Delinquent payments
will be surcharged an amount as established by the Council.
      (3)   Delinquency notices will be sent on the first business day
following the 20th of the month. Delinquency notices will include the
delinquency surcharge and a notice that water service will be disconnected if
payment in full is not received by the first of the following month. In
hardship cases, delinquencies may be cured by a pay-out agreement approved by
the City Secretary and entered into with the customer before service is
disconnected.
      (4)   Restoration of disconnected service will be in accordance with and
subject to the fees and deposits required under current city tariff, just as a
new customer account.
      (5)   New service will not be connected, nor deposits accepted for
services to tenant-occupied properties for which the owner has a delinquent
account. Owners of tenant-occupied property and new tenants of tenant-occupied
property which was previously billed to the account of a former tenant will not
be liable for the delinquent account of the former tenant. The city will seek
recovery only against the former tenant.
      (6)   New owners of property will be required to pay a previous owner’s
delinquent account only if a lien has been duly perfected against the property.
(2012 Code, § 88-53)
   (H)   Payment of charges; failure to pay.
      (1)   All charges for water service furnished or rendered by the city
waterworks shall be payable at the office of the Water Department and, if not
paid within ten days after they become due and payable, the city reserves the
right to cut off and discontinue water service to the premises, and service
shall not be reconnected and additional water shall not be furnished until all
past-due accounts and charges are paid in full.
      (2)   Where service has been disconnected for failure to pay for service
rendered, a charge, as established by the Council, shall be made for each meter
disconnected before such service shall be restored or water turned on again. If
all charges for water service are not paid within 20 days of the due date, the
Water Department shall cut off and discontinue such water service.
      (3)   Any customer furnished water service who fails to pay for such
service shall be assessed a penalty, as established by the Council, which shall
be due per month until such past-due charges have been paid.
(2012 Code, § 88-54)
   (I)   Charges to continue until notice to discontinue service given;
allowance when service discontinued. Any person wishing to discontinue the use
of water supplied from the waterworks system must give notice to the city;
otherwise, the charges referred to in this subchapter will be entered until
such notice has been given. The charge for shutting off and turning on of such
service shall be as established by the Council, and no allowance will be made
in any case for less than 30 days.
(2012 Code, § 88-55)
(Ord. 140903, passed 9-9-2014; Ord. 171102, passed - -2017; Ord. 190301, passed
3-12-2019; Ord. 190302, passed 3-12-2019)
§ 52.09  CITY RESERVOIRS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      IN-TAKE FACILITY. The pumping site within the on-channel reservoir,
including the concrete structures and associated pumping equipment.
      OFF-CHANNEL RESERVOIR. The surface lake and drainage area located south
and west of C.R. 4290 in the county, comprising the impoundment reservoir for
the city’s water supply system.
      ON-CHANNEL RESERVOIR. To the impoundment on the North Bosque River at
Riverside Drive in the city used for the purpose of retaining and holding water
for transfer to the Surface Lake.
(2012 Code, § 88-60)
   (B)   Restricted activities.
      (1)   The following are prohibited within 1,000 feet of the in-take
facility in accordance with paragraph 290.41(e)(2)(b) of the Rules and
Regulations for Public Water Systems, being Tex. Administrative Code Ch. 290,
State Natural Resource Conservation Commission: boat launching ramps; marina;
or floating fishing piers accessible by the public.
      (2)   The following are prohibited within 200 feet of the in-take
facility in accordance with paragraph 290.41(e)(2)(c) of the Rules and
Regulations for Public Water Systems, being Tex. Administrative Code Ch. 290,
State Natural Resource Conservation Commission: all recreational activities;
and trespassing.
      (3)   No unauthorized personnel are permitted at the off-channel
reservoir at any time.
      (4)   Release of any hazardous or potentially hazardous materials is
prohibited on or within the natural drainage area of the on-channel reservoir
and the off-channel reservoir.
(2012 Code, § 88-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
WATER CONSERVATION
§ 52.20  LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   The recitals stated in Ord. 961101 are found to be true and correct, and are
adopted as the foundation and basis of this subchapter.
(2012 Code, § 88-81)
§ 52.21  PLAN ADOPTED.
   (A)   The city’s water conservation plan and utility survey are approved and
adopted as if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   The city’s drought contingency plan is approved and adopted as if set
forth in full herein.
   (C)   The conservation goals and methods for the accomplishment of said
goals is approved as stated in the water conservation plan and utility survey.
   (D)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, is granted the authority to
implement and enforce the drought contingency plan.
   (E)   The conditions for the implementation of drought stages is approved as
set forth in the drought contingency plan.
(2012 Code, § 88-82)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.22  GUIDELINES.
   The following guidelines are adopted for managing demand during water supply
emergencies.
   (A)   Trigger conditions. The city will initiate appropriate demand
management measures upon occurrence of any one of the following trigger
conditions.
      (1)   Stage one: mild conditions.
         (a)   Daily water demand exceeds 1,000,000 gallons or 80% of treatment
or pumping capacity for seven consecutive days.
         (b)   Minimum water pressure within the distribution system remains
below 30 pounds per square inch (psi) for 12 consecutive hours.
         (c)   Ground or elevated storage volume remains below 70% of capacity
for two consecutive days.
         (d)   There are impending or actual system component failures in
conjunction with water demand exceeding 80% of reduced treatment, pumping or
distribution capacity.
      (2)   Stage two: moderate conditions.
         (a)   Daily water demand exceeds 1,250,000 gallons or 90% of treatment
or pumping capacity for four consecutive days.
         (b)   Minimum water pressure within the distribution system remains
below 30 psi for 24 consecutive hours.
         (c)   Ground or elevated storage volume remains below 60% of capacity
for two consecutive days.
         (d)   There is impending or actual system component failure in
conjunction with water demand exceeding 90% of reduced treatment, pumping or
distribution capacity.
      (3)   Stage three: severe conditions.
         (a)   Daily water demand exceeds 1,500,000 gallons or 100% of
treatment or pumping capacity for three consecutive days.
         (b)   Minimum water pressure within the distribution system remains
below 30 psi for 36 consecutive hours.
         (c)   Ground or elevated storage volume remains below 50% of capacity
for two consecutive days.
         (d)   There is impending or actual system component failure in
conjunction with water demand exceeding 100% of reduced treatment, pumping or
distribution capacity.
         (e)   There is imminent failure of one or more water system components
where immediate health or safety hazards may result.
      (4)   Stage four: critical conditions.
         (a)   There is failure of one or more water system components
resulting in immediate health or safety hazards.
         (b)   There is contamination of water supply or other disaster.
   (B)   Emergency demand management measures. The city will implement the
following emergency demand management measures upon the occurrence of the
defined trigger conditions:
      (1)   Stage one. Under stage one trigger conditions, water conservation
measures will be voluntary and will include:
         (a)   Inform the public through the news media that a stage one mild
trigger condition has occurred and encourage voluntary water use reductions;
         (b)   Activate an information center and utilize the news media to
distribute information on water conservation methods and on the emergency
demand management plan adopted by the city; and
         (c)   Publicize a voluntary lawn watering schedule such that customers
water lawns only on alternate calendar dates. Recommend lawn watering only
between the hours of 6:00 through 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 through 11:00 p.m.
      (2)   Stage two. Under stage two trigger conditions, water conservation
measures include both voluntary and mandatory measures as follows:
         (a)   Inform the public through individual mailings and the news media
that a moderate trigger condition has occurred and include a detailed
description of voluntary/mandatory emergency demand management measures along
with associated fines and enforcement procedures;
         (b)   Implement a mandatory five-day lawn watering schedule based on
the last digit of the street address. Customers with street addresses ending in
0 or 9 may water the first day, 1 and 8 the second day, 2 and 7 the third day
and the like. Lawn watering will be allowed only between the hours of 6:00
through 10:00 a.m. and 7:00 through 11:00 p.m.;
         (c) Request a voluntary reduction of 20% in total water usage;
         (d)   Prohibit car, pavement and window washing, except when using a
hand-held bucket; and
         (e)   Prohibit water uses which are not essential for public health or
safety, including, but not limited to:
            1.   Filling of swimming pools;
            2.   Street washing;
            3.   Water hydrant flushing; and
            4.   Public park and athletic field water.
      (3)   Stage three. Under stage three trigger conditions, which are
considered severe stage three conditions, conservation measures will be
mandatory, and include the following:
         (a)   Inform the public through individual mailings and the news media
that a stage three severe trigger condition has occurred and include a detailed
description of mandatory emergency demand management measures along with
associated fines and enforcement procedures;
         (b)   Prohibit all outdoor water use which is not essential for public
health or safety;
         (c)   Establish maximum water use amounts for each customer based on
his or her individual average winter use amounts. WINTER USE is defined as the
amount of water consumed during those months used by the city to determine an
individual’s wastewater flow (December, January and February); and
         (d)    Implement a user surcharge for excessive water used based on
customer type and meter size.
      (4)   Stage four. Under stage four trigger conditions, which are
considered critical conditions, conservation measures will be mandatory, and
include the following:
         (a)   Continue implementation of all relevant actions established for
less severe conditions;
         (b)   Arrange for supplemental water supply from alternative sources;
and
         (c)   Ration or terminate water service to selected portions of the
system or classifications of customers according to a specified priority
schedule.
   (C)   Means of implementation. It will be the responsibility of the city to
determine when a trigger condition is reached. When a trigger condition is
reached, the city will begin implementation of the emergency demand management
plan. The city will continue to monitor the water emergency until it is
determined that a trigger condition no longer exists and then advise all
entities of the change in condition.
   (D)   Initiation and termination procedures. With the occurrence of a
trigger condition or when the occurrence of a trigger condition appears
imminent, the public will be notified through announcements on television and
radio and through publication of newspaper articles. In the event of occurrence
of stage two trigger conditions, the public also will be notified by individual
mailings. When trigger conditions have passed, the public will be notified
immediately through the news media.
   (E)   Contracts with wholesale customers. The city will, as part of a
contract for sale of water to any wholesale customer, including other political
subdivisions, require the customer to adopt applicable provisions of the city’s
water conservation and emergency demand management plan or already have a
comparable plan in effect. These provisions will be through contractual
agreement prior to the sale of water to the wholesale customer.
(2012 Code, § 88-83)
PRIVATE WATER WELLS
§ 52.35  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drill or to commence to drill a water
well within the corporate limits of the city without first obtaining a drilling
permit from the City Secretary.
(2012 Code, § 56-31)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.36  PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   A drilling permit shall be issued to an applicant by the City Secretary only
after the following requirements are met.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit to the City Council an application to drill
a water well, setting forth:
      (1)   The location of the proposed well;
      (2)   Its proximity to all other utility lines within 200 feet of the
location;
      (3)   Its proximity to all kennels, sanitary sewer lines and storm sewer
lines within 200 feet of the location;
      (4)   The proposed depth of the well;
      (5)   The size of well bore;
      (8)   The type of casing;
      (9)   Proposed pump size and type; and
      (10)   Such other information as the City Council may reasonably require.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay the fee required by the City Council’s
designated engineer to determine whether the proposed well will, at the time of
the application or in the immediate future, in any manner affect, diminish or
interfere with the city’s subsurface water supply.
   (C)   Upon obtaining the designated engineer’s report, the City Council
shall set the application for hearing and shall grant the application if it
determines that the proposed well:
      (1)   Is necessary to the applicant and will impose an undue hardship on
the applicant if not permitted;
      (2)   Will not in any manner affect, diminish or interfere with the
city’s subsurface water supply at the present time or in the immediate future;
      (3)   Will not be located so as to permit contamination of the aquifers
through which it passes; and
      (4)   If the application is granted, the City Secretary shall issue a
drilling permit upon the payment of a fee which shall be as established by the
Council.
(2012 Code, § 56-32)
§ 52.37  CONNECTION TO CITY WATER SYSTEM.
   No private water well shall be connected, directly or indirectly to any
portion of the city water system. In addition to any other penalty provided by
this subchapter or other law, the city shall immediately terminate city water
service to any lines connected in violation of this subchapter.
(2012 Code, § 56-33)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Sewer rates
Sewer and Industrial Waste Standards
   
53.15   Definitions
   
53.16   Amendments to statutes
   
53.17   Purpose and policy
   
53.18   Control authority
   
53.19   Prohibited water discharges into sanitary sewers
   
53.20   Required discharges into storm sewers
   
53.21   Objectives
   
53.22   Prohibited discharges
   
53.23   Specific prohibitions
   
53.24   Federal categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.25   Right of revision
   
53.26   Dilution prohibited
   
53.27   Information statement as to industrial waste discharge
   
53.28   Charges and fees
   
53.29   Industrial permits; conditions
   
53.30   Compliance reports
   
53.31   Monitoring facilities
   
53.32   Inspection and sampling
   
53.33   Accidental discharges
   
53.34   Upsets
   
53.35   Pretreatment; requirements; bypass
   
53.36   Confidential information
   
53.37   Interceptors required; type; location; specifications
   
53.38   Preliminary treatment; review and approval; facilities
   
53.39   Control manholes
   
53.40   Measurements; tests; analyses
   
53.41   Damaging sewerage works
   
53.42   Harmful contributions
   
53.43   Permit revocation
   
53.44   Violations; hearings; legal action
   
53.45   Falsifying information
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  SEWER RATES.
   Sewer rates shall be as established by the Council.
(2012 Code, § 88-116)
SEWER AND INDUSTRIAL WASTE STANDARDS
§ 53.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Director in an NPDES state with an approved state
pretreatment program and the appropriate regional administrator in a non-NPDES
state or NPDES state without an approved state pretreatment program.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE INDUSTRIAL USER. The person authorized to
represent, sign and submit documents in accordance with the following criteria:
      (1)   By a responsible corporate officer, if the industrial user
submitting the report is a corporation:
         (a)   A president, secretary, treasurer or vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy- or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   By a general partner or proprietor if the industrial user
submitting the reports is a partnership or sole proprietorship respectively;
      (3)   The principal executive officer or director having responsibility
for the overall operation of the discharging if the industrial user submitting
the reports is a federal, state or local governmental entity, or their agents;
      (4)   By a duly authorized representative of the individual designated in
divisions (1), (2) or (3) of this definition if the:
         (a)   Authorization is made in writing by the individual described in
divisions (1), (2) or (3);
         (b)   Authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
industrial discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager,
operator of a well, or a well field superintendent, or a position of equivalent
responsibility or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for
the company; and
         (c)   Written authorization is submitted to the city.
      (5)   If an authorization under division (4) of this definition is no
longer accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility
for the overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for the
environmental matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the
requirements of division (4) must be submitted to the city prior to or together
with any reports to be signed by the AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under a standard laboratory procedure
in five days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning three feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user subject to categorical
standards as established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARD. Regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act which
applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   CITY (OR INDIVIDUALS REPRESENTING THE CITY). The City of Clifton, Texas (or
the City Secretary or an authorized deputy, agent or representative).
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. The sample resulting from the combination of individual
samples taken at selected intervals based on an increment of either flow or
time.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Mayor, City Secretary or designated appointees for
the purpose of implementation and enforcement of this chapter.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY. The United States Environmental Protection
Agency; or where appropriate, the term may also be used as a designation for
the Administrator or other authorized official of said agency.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample collected over a period of time not
exceeding 15 minutes.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of pollutants into a POTW
from any non-domestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the Act,
(33 U.S.C. § 1317) into the wastewater system (including holding tank waste
discharged into the system).
   INDUSTRIAL PERMIT. Permits issued to significant industrial users and
categorical industrial users by the control authority as set forth in §
53.29(B) of this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge which does not constitute a
discharge of pollutants under regulations issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act
(33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes other than
sanitary sewage.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with other
discharges, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
      (2)   Is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES
permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation) or
of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the
following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued under such
provisions (or more stringent state or local regulations): § 405 of the Clean
Water Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA)
(including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (RCRA) being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq. and including state
regulations contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to
Subtitle D of the SWDA); the Clean Air Act being 52 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.; the
Toxic Substances Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq.; and the Marine
Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq. and 33
U.S.C. §§ 1401 et seq.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT. A permit pursuant to
§ 402 of the Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface water or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which commenced
after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the
Act which will be applicable if the standards are thereafter promulgated;
provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces an existing one that causes the discharge of pollutants at an existing
source; or
         (c)   The discharges of the building, structure, facility or
installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same
site. In determining whether discharges are substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site, factors such as the extent to which the new
facility engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source
shall be considered.
      (2)   Construction on the site of an existing discharge source results in
a modification rather than a NEW SOURCE if the construction does not meet the
criteria of divisions (1)(a) or (1)(c) of this definition, but otherwise
alters, replaces or adds to existing process or production equipment.
      (3)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE has commenced if the owner or operator
has:
         (a)   Begun or caused to be begun as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation or removal of existing buildings, structures or facilities necessary
for the placement, assembly or installation of new source facilities or
equipment.
         (b)   Entered into a building contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment intended to be used in new operations within a
reasonable time. Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
definition.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with
other discharges, is a cause of a violation of any NPDES permit (including an
increase in the magnitude or duration of a violation).
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the weight of the hydrogen
ion in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal or agricultural waste discharged into
water.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction, elimination or alteration of pollutant
properties in wastewater prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise
introducing such pollutants into a POTW.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to a POTW pretreatment program other than a categorical standard imposed on an
industrial user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARDS. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of
the Act, which applies to industrial users. This term includes prohibitive
discharge limits established pursuant to 40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   PROCESS WASTEWATER. Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, byproduct or waste product.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned and controlled by the city.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS. A treatment works, as defined by § 212 of
the Act, (33 U.S.C. § 1292) which is owned by a state or municipality (as
defined by § 502(4) of the Act). POTW includes any devices and systems used in
the conveyance, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal
sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature. For the purpose of this
chapter, the POTW responsibilities of the city shall pertain to all devices and
systems used in the conveyance, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal sewage or industrial wastes of a liquid nature within the city’s
jurisdictional boundaries prior to discharge. POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city who
are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the POTW.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm waters,
surface waters and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, industrial establishments, together with such ground
waters, surface waters and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. An arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWERAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   All industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment standards
under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Ch. I, Subch. N;
      (2)   Any other industrial user that discharges an average of 25,000
gallons per day or more of process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary,
non-contact cooling and boiler blow-down wastewater); contributes a process
waste stream which makes up 5% or more of the average dry weather hydraulic or
organic capacity of the POTW treatment plant; or is designated as such by the
control authority as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(a) on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6)); and
      (3)   Upon a finding that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (2) of this definition has no reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or
requirement, the control authority (as defined in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(a)) may at
any time, on its own initiative or in response to a petition received from an
industrial user or POTW, and in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6),
determine that such industrial user is not a significant industrial user.
   SLUG LOAD. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste of a non-
routine, episodic nature, including, but not limited to, an accidental spill or
a non-customary batch discharge in which the concentration of any given
constituent or quantity of flow exceeds the applicable limits of a sewer use
permit and/or the capacity of the sewer system or the treatment facility to
provide adequate treatment before discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION. A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual, issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972, as amended.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm waters and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of
precipitation, and resulting from such precipitation, including snow melt.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids measured in mg/l that either float on the surface
of or are suspended in water, wastewater or other liquid, and which are largely
removable by a laboratory filtration device.
   SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
   UPSET.
      (1)   An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary non-compliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the industrial user.
      (2)   An UPSET does not include non-compliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance or careless or improper
operation.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater system.
   WASTEWATER. Any potable water that has been used by residents, businesses,
institutions and industrial establishments.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(2012 Code, § 88-136)
§ 53.16  AMENDMENTS TO STATUTES.
   Reference made to any state or federal statutes or to any local ordinances
includes and is intended to refer to those statutes and/or ordinances as they
presently exist or as they may hereafter be amended to read.
(2012 Code, § 88-138)
§ 53.17  PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for direct and indirect
contributors into the wastewater system of the city and enables the city to
comply with all applicable state and federal laws required by the Clean Water
Act of 1977, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq. and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. part 403), including revisions and amendments as
promulgated.
(2012 Code, § 88-139)
§ 53.18  CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   It shall be the duty of the control authority to see that certain provisions
of this chapter pertaining to the use of public sewers are carried out, to
determine if the sewage collected by the sewer collection system is treatable
and to supervise the treatment of the sewage.
(2012 Code, § 88-140)
§ 53.19  PROHIBITED WATER DISCHARGES INTO SANITARY SEWERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or unpolluted industrial
process waters to any sanitary sewer.
(2012 Code, § 88-141)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.20  REQUIRED DISCHARGES INTO STORM SEWERS.
   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such
sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to a natural outlet
approved by the control authority.
(2012 Code, § 88-142)
§ 53.21  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter shall be to:
   (A)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater system
which will interfere with the operation of the city wastewater collection
system, including, but not limited to, interference with the use or disposal of
the resulting sludge;
   (B)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the city wastewater
collection system which will, if inadequately treated, pass through the system
into receiving waters or to the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible with
the systems;
   (C)   Ensure the quality of sludge to allow its use and disposal in
compliance with statutes and regulations;
   (D)   Protect the general public, wastewater collection system maintenance
personnel, the personnel of any POTW and the environment;
   (E)   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and sludge
from the wastewater collection system;
   (F)   Provide for equitable distribution of the costs of the wastewater
operations, maintenance and improvement of the POTW; and
   (G)   Enable the POTW to comply with NPDES permit conditions, sludge use and
disposal requirements and any other federal or state laws.
(2012 Code, § 88-143)
§ 53.22  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   If, in the opinion of the control authority, the character of the sewage
from any manufacturer or industrial plant, building or other premises is such
that it will cause any of the following, the control authority shall have the
right to require such user to dispose of such waste otherwise and prevent it
from entering the system:
   (A)   Injure or interfere with wastewater treatment processes or facilities;
   (B)   Constitute a hazard to humans or animals;
   (C)   Create a hazard in receiving waters of the wastewater treatment plant
effluent; or
   (D)   Violate appropriate federal, state or local regulations.
(2012 Code, § 88-160)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.23  SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   Except as provided in this section, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the sewerage or drainage system of the city, directly or
indirectly, any of the following described matter, water or wastes:
   (A)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 281.21;
   (B)   Pollutants which cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW with a
pH lower than 5.0 or greater than 10.0;
   (C)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction in
the flow in the POTW resulting in interference;
   (D)   Any pollutant, including oxygen-demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW;
   (E)   Heat in amounts which inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the point of discharge into the sewer exceeds 40°C (140°F)
unless the approval authority, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate
temperature limits;
   (F)   Petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   (G)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that causes worker health and safety
hazards;
   (H)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW;
   (I)   Any water or waste containing more than 123 parts per million, by
weight, of fat, oil or grease;
   (J)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (K)   Any of the pollutants listed below, in solution or suspension:
      (1)   Aluminum;
      (2)   Arsenic;
      (3)   Cadmium;
      (4)   Chromium;
      (5)   Copper;
      (6)   Cyanide;
      (7)   Lead;
      (8)   Mercury;
      (9)   Molybdenum;
      (10)   Nickel;
      (11)   Selenium;
      (12)   Silver;
      (13)   Toxic organics; and
      (14)   Zinc.
   (L)   Any of the following pollutants, in solution or suspension, at a
concentration measured at the user’s end of pipe greater than as shown below:
      (1)   Oil and grease: 0 mg/l; and
      (2)   Total phenols: seven mg/l.
   (M)   Wastewater which contains more than one milligram per liter of
hydrogen sulfide measured as H2S.
   (N)   Wastewater with radioactive wastes greater than allowed by applicable
provisions of the state’s Radiation Control Act (Tex. Health and Safety Code
Ch. 401), and the state regulations for control of radiation issued under that
Act;
   (O)   Hazardous wastes prohibited by regulatory agencies; and
   (P)   Wastewater which contains more than 15.00 milligrams per liter of
fluoride.
(2012 Code, § 88-162)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.24  FEDERAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment standards for
a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if more stringent
than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that subcategory,
shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this chapter. The
control authority shall notify all affected categorical industrial users of the
applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12.
(2012 Code, § 88-163)
§ 53.25  RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The terms and conditions of a significant user permit may be subject to
modification by the city at any time as governing limitations and requirements
are changed. The significant user permit can be modified as a result of EPA
promulgating a new federal pretreatment standard or a modification to a current
pretreatment standard. Any significant user permit modification which results
in new conditions or limits in the permit shall include a reasonable time
schedule for compliance by the holder of the permit.
(2012 Code, § 88-164)
§ 53.26  DILUTION PROHIBITED.
   The attainment of the specified levels simply by dilution, in the absence of
treatment (that is, by use of extraneous or other wastewater intermixed to
dilute a particular discharge), is specifically prohibited.
(2012 Code, § 88-165)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.27  INFORMATION STATEMENT AS TO INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   Where the discharge of industrial wastes will occur, a written
statement on a standard form provided by the control authority shall be filed
with the city.
   (B)   The statement shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Type of industry;
      (3)   Quantity of plant waste;
      (4)   Typical analysis of the waste;
      (5)   Type of pretreatment proposed if any; and
      (6)   Proposed point of discharge.
(2012 Code, § 88-166)
§ 53.28  CHARGES AND FEES.
   The city may adopt charges and fees which may include fees for:
   (A)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up, administering and operating the
city’s responsibilities under any pretreatment program;
   (B)   Fees for monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
   (C)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
   (D)   Fees for permit application; and
   (E)   Fees for filing appeals.
(2012 Code, § 88-167)
§ 53.29  INDUSTRIAL PERMITS; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All significant industrial users and categorical industrial
users, as determined from information provided as required in §
53.27 of this chapter, shall obtain an industrial permit before discharging
sewage.
      (2)   Users required to obtain an industrial permit shall complete and
file with the city an application, or in the case of a categorical user a
baseline monitoring report, in the form prescribed by the city. Existing users
shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or discharging into the
sewerage works. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units
and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and location, if different from the address;
         (b)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in §
53.15 of this chapter and those specified by any applicable federal categorical
standards, determined by a reliable analytical laboratory. Sampling and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with procedures established by the
EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as
amended;
         (d)   Time, duration and volume of contribution;
         (e)   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
         (f)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and
details to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size,
location and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   The nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by any city, state or federal pretreatment standards, and a
statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are being met on
a consistent basis, and if not, whether additional operation and maintenance
and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user to meet applicable
pretreatment standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment or O&M will be required to meet
pretreatment standards, the schedule by which the user will provide the
additional pretreatment. The scheduled completion date shall not be later than
the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment standard. The
following conditions shall apply to the schedule.
            1.   The schedule shall contain dates for the commencement and
completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
pretreatment required for the user to meet the pretreatment standards (e.g.,
hiring an engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans,
executing contract for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction and the like).
            2.   No event shall be scheduled for completion in more than nine
months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each scheduled completion
date, and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress
report to the city, including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with
the scheduled progress, any reason for delay, and all steps being taken by the
user to return the construction to the schedule. In no event shall more than
nine months elapse between progress reports to the city.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process and rate of
production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials, processes and chemicals used
(average and maximum per day);
         (l)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of the pretreatment system;
         (m)   Name of owner, operator and facility contact person;
         (n)   Name of the POTW that will receive the wastewater discharge from
the facility;
         (o)   A listing and description of any environmental permits held by
the facility;
         (p)   Any other information deemed by the city to be necessary to
evaluate the contract application; and
         (q)   The application will be signed and certified as correct by an
authorized representative of the user.
      (3)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a national categorical
pretreatment standard, the industrial permits of users subject to those
standards shall be revised to require compliance with the standard within the
time frame prescribed by the standard. Where a user subject to a categorical
standard has not previously submitted an application for an industrial permit,
the user shall apply for an industrial permit within 180 days after the
promulgation of the applicable categorical standard. Any user with an existing
industrial permit and subject to a categorical standard shall submit to the
control authority within 180 days after the promulgation of an applicable
categorical standard the information required by divisions (A)(2)(h) and (A)(2)
(i) above.
(2012 Code, § 88-168)
   (B)   (1)   Industrial permits shall be subject to all provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges and fees established
by the city. Permits may contain the following:
         (a)   A unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to a sewer;
         (b)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
         (c)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
         (d)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
         (e)   Specifications for monitoring programs, which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
         (f)   Compliance schedules;
         (g)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
         (h)   Requirements for notification of the city of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater system;
         (i)   Right of entry as authorized by §
53.32 of this chapter;
         (j)   Requirement that any permit amendment deemed necessary by the
city be executed if there is new introduction of wastewater constituents or any
substantial change in the volume and character of the wastewater constituents
being introduced into the wastewater system;
         (k)   Requirements for notification of slug discharges;
         (l)   Requirements for the retention of records;
         (m)   Description of the location from which all samples used to
measure compliance with applicable discharge standard will be obtained;
         (n)   Requirements for periodic reports of compliance, status or other
information as provided to the city;
         (o)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this section;
         (p)   Requirements for an authorized representative to meet the
signatory and certification requirements for all applications, industrial user
reports and that all pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis
(see the definition of “authorized representative of the industrial user” in
section
§
53.15 of this chapter); and
         (q)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the city and affording city
access to such records.
      (2)   Industrial permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not
to exceed five years. A permit may be issued for a period less than a year or
may be stated to expire on a specific date. The user shall apply for permit
reissuance a minimum of 180 days prior to the expiration of the user’s existing
permit. Permits may not be transferred.
(2012 Code, § 88-169)
§ 53.30  COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of wastewater into the sewerage system, any user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the city a report
indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by pretreatment standards and requirements, and the average
and maximum daily flow for the process units in the user facility which are
limited by the pretreatment standards or requirements. The report shall state
whether the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on
a consistent basis and, if not, what additional O&M or pretreatment is
necessary to bring the user into compliance with the pretreatment standards or
requirements. The statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the industrial user, and certified by a qualified professional.
(2012 Code, § 88-170)
   (B)   (1)   Any user subject to a pretreatment standard, after the
compliance date of the pretreatment standard or, in the case of a new source,
upon commencement of the discharge into the sewerage system, shall submit to
the city during the months of June and December, unless otherwise specified in
the pretreatment standard or by the city, a report indicating the nature and
concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by the
pretreatment standards. In addition, the report shall include a record of all
daily flows which exceeded the average daily flow reported in §
53.29(A)(3) of this chapter during the reporting period.
      (2)   The city may impose mass limitation on users as appropriate. If
imposed, the report required by division (B)(1) above shall indicate the mass
of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user.
The reports shall contain the results of sampling and analysis of the
discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration, or production
and mass, of pollutants which are limited by the pretreatment standards. The
frequency of monitoring shall be prescribed in the pretreatment standards. All
analyses shall be performed in accordance with procedures established pursuant
to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended.
Sampling shall be performed in accordance with the procedures set forth in the
EPA publication, Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial
Effluents for Priority Pollutants, April, 1977, as amended, or with any other
sampling and analytical procedures approved by the EPA.
(2012 Code, § 88-171)
§ 53.31  MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city may require to be provided and operated at the user’s expense
monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling and flow measurements of
the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems. When required by the
control authority, the owner of any property served by a building sewer
carrying industrial wastes shall install at the owner’s expense a locked
manhole in the building sewer. Only the city shall have keys to the locked
manhole.
   (B)   A charge to be determined by the control authority shall be required
of the owner each time the locked manhole is opened by the city.
   (C)   The monitoring facility shall be situated on the user’s premises; but
the city may, when such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship
on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public right-of-way
and located so that it will not be obstructed by landscaping or parked
vehicles.
   (D)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or facility
to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The
facility, sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in
a safe and proper operating condition at the expense of the user.
   (E)   Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city’s
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within 90 days following
written notification by the city.
(2012 Code, § 88-172)
§ 53.32  INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain compliance
with this chapter. All occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city’s representative ready access at all reasonable
times to the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records
examination or the performance of any other duties. Industrial users shall
retain for a minimum of three years any records of monitoring activities and
results (whether or not such monitoring activities are required by regulation)
and shall make such records available for inspection and copying by the city,
TNRCC and EPA. The city, TNRCC and EPA shall have the right to set upon the
user’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection,
compliance monitoring and metering operations. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry onto the premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements so
that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel of the city and
EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing
specific responsibilities.
(2012 Code, § 88-173)
§ 53.33  ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   Each user required to obtain an industrial permit under §
53.29(A) of this chapter, or as determined by the city, shall provide
protection from accidental discharge of all substances regulated by this
chapter. Facilities to prevent accidental discharge shall be provided and
maintained at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense within 90 days after
issuance of an industrial permit. Detailed plans prepared under the supervision
of a professional engineer licensed by the state showing facilities and
operating procedures designed to prevent accidental discharge shall be
submitted to the city for review, and shall be approved by the city before
construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve the user from the responsibility to modify the
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. In the case of
an accidental discharge, the user shall immediately by telephone notify the
city of the incident. The notification shall include location of discharge,
type of waste, concentration and volume and corrective actions taken.
(2012 Code, § 88-174)
§ 53.34  UPSETS.
   (A)   Effect of an upset. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense
to an action brought for non- compliance with categorical pretreatment
standards if the requirements of division (B) below are met.
   (B)   Conditions necessary for a demonstration of upset. An industrial user
who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate,
through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other relevant
evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the causes
of the upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
      (3)   The industrial user has submitted the following to the city within
24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
         (a)   A description of the upset and cause of non-compliance;
         (b)   The period of non-compliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the non-compliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of the non- compliance.
   (C)   Industrial user has burden of proof. In any enforcement proceeding,
the industrial user seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset shall have
the burden of proof.
   (D)   City enforcement personnel to review claims that non-compliance was
caused by upset. In the usual exercise of prosecutorial discretion, city
enforcement personnel shall review any claims that non- compliance was caused
by an upset. Industrial users may have a judicial determination on any claim of
upset only in an enforcement action brought alleging non-compliance with
categorical pretreatment standards.
   (E)   Industrial user to control production of discharges until facility
restored or alternative method provided. The industrial user shall control
production of all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain compliance
with categorical pretreatment standards upon reduction, loss or failure of its
treatment facility for any reason whatsoever until the facility is restored or
an alternative method of treatment is provided.
(2012 Code, § 88-175)
§ 53.35  PRETREATMENT; REQUIREMENTS; BYPASS.
   (A)   Bypass of pretreatment facilities.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, except to prevent loss of life, personal
injury or severe property damage when no feasible alternatives exist.
      (2)   The user may allow bypass to occur which does not cause effluent
limitations to be exceeded, but only for essential maintenance to assure
efficient operations.
      (3)   Notification of bypass shall be made as follows.
         (a)   Anticipated bypass. If the user knows in advance of the need for
a bypass, it shall submit prior written notice, at least ten days before the
date of the bypass, to the city.
         (b)   Unanticipated bypass. The user shall immediately notify the city
and submit a written notice to the POTW within five days. The report shall
specify:
            1.   A description of the bypass and its cause, (including the
time, duration, volume and location of the bypass and the type and
concentration of waste in the bypass);
            2.   Whether the bypass has been corrected; and
            3.   The steps being taken or to be taken to reduce, eliminate and
prevent a recurrence of the bypass.
(2012 Code, § 88-176)
   (B)   Pretreatment requirements.
      (1)   If discharges or proposed discharges to public sewers may adversely
affect wastewater facilities, processes, equipment or receiving waters; create
a hazard to life or health; or create a public nuisance, the control authority
shall require:
         (a)   Pretreatment;
         (b)   Control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
         (c)   Payment for the cost of handling and treating wastes.
      (2)   The control authority may determine whether a discharge or proposed
discharge is included under division (B)(1) above.
      (3)   The control authority shall deny discharge of wastes when:
         (a)   A discharge or proposed discharge is included under division (B)
(1) above; and
         (b)   The discharger does not meet all pretreatment requirements
imposed.
(2012 Code, § 88-177) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.36  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   User information and data obtained from reports, questionnaires,
contract applications, contracts and monitoring programs and from inspections
shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the city that the release of the information would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the user.
   (B)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portions of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public, but shall be made available upon
written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit, state disposal system
permit or the pretreatment programs; however, such portions of a report shall
be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as confidential
information.
(2012 Code, § 88-178)
§ 53.37  INTERCEPTORS REQUIRED; TYPE; LOCATION; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any
flammable wastes or sand. Interceptors may not be required for private living
quarters or dwelling units without group cooking facilities. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the control authority and shall be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be capable of withstanding abrupt
and extreme changes in temperature and shall be of substantial construction,
water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers which when bolted in
place shall be air-tight and water-tight.
(2012 Code, § 88-179)
   (B)   (1)   All persons subject to this chapter shall comply with the
municipal solid waste management regulations of the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality (TCEQ) providing for the handling, processing and
disposal of waste from grease traps. There shall be maintained on the premises
required to have grease traps verification of the type and location of all
grease traps, and verification of their cleaning and maintenance.
Verifications, unless otherwise approved by the control authority, shall be
made by the commercial company providing cleaning and maintenance, and shall be
retained for inspection by the city for a period of three years.
      (2)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained at the owner’s expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
(2012 Code, § 88-180) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.38  PRELIMINARY TREATMENT; REVIEW AND APPROVAL; FACILITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes
having the following shall be subject to the review and approval of the control
authority:
         (a)   A five-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million by weight;
         (b)   Containing more than 300 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (c)   Containing any quantity of substances described in §
53.23 of this chapter; or
         (d)   Having an average daily flow greater than 5% of the average
daily sewage flow of the city.
      (2)   If the Superintendent has approved the admission of divisions (A)
(1)(a) or (A)(1)(b) above into the public sewer, that discharge may be subject
to a surcharge as determined by the Superintendent of the Waterworks. Where
necessary in the opinion of the Superintendent, the owner shall provide, at his
or her expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to:
         (a)   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand and/or TSS to 300 parts per
million by weight; or
         (b)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided for in §
53.24 of this chapter.
      (3)   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the Superintendent, and no construction of those facilities shall
be commenced until approval is obtained in writing.
(2012 Code, § 88-181)
   (B)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation, at the owner’s expense.
(2012 Code, § 88-182) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.39  CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   When required by the Superintendent of the Waterworks, the owner of
any property served by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall
install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the industrial wastes. The manhole,
when required, shall be accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the control authority.
   (B)   The manhole shall be installed and maintained at the owner’s expense,
so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(2012 Code, § 88-183)
§ 53.40  MEASUREMENTS; TESTS; ANALYSES.
   (A)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes shall be done in accordance with procedures established by the EPA
in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as amended, or with any test procedures approved by the
EPA Administrator. Where EPA has not under 40 C.F.R. part 136, approved
analytical techniques for any pollutant, the city shall designate an
appropriate analytical technique. All tests shall be performed on samples taken
at the control manhole provided for in §
53.39(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation, the
user shall notify the city within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeated analysis to the city within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation.
(2012 Code, § 88-184)
§ 53.41  DAMAGING SEWERAGE WORKS.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment which
is a part of the municipal sewerage works.
(2012 Code, § 88-185)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.42  HARMFUL CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or a
wastewater contribution permit when such suspension is necessary, in the
opinion of the city, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons, to the environment, causes interference to the POTW or
causes the city to violate any condition of its NPDES permit.
   (B)   Any person notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater contribution permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate the contribution. If the person fails to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the POTW system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall reinstate
the wastewater contribution permit and/or the wastewater treatment service upon
proof of the elimination of the non-complying discharge. A detailed written
statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the harmful
contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence shall be
submitted to the city within 15 days of the date of occurrence.
(2012 Code, § 88-201)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.43  PERMIT REVOCATION.
   Any user who violates the following conditions of this section or applicable
state and federal regulations may be subject to having his or her permit
revoked in accordance with the procedures of this section:
   (A)   Failure of a user to factually report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of his or her discharge;
   (B)   Failure of the user to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics without first notifying the city;
   (C)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose of
inspection or monitoring; or
   (D)   Violation of conditions of the permit.
(2012 Code, § 88-202)
§ 53.44  VIOLATIONS; HEARINGS; LEGAL ACTION.
   (A)   Written notice.
      (1)   Whenever the city finds that any user has violated or is violating
this chapter, wastewater contribution permit or any prohibition, limitation or
requirements contained in this chapter, the city may serve upon such person a
written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within 30 days of the date
of the notice, a plan for the satisfactory correction of the violation shall be
submitted to the city by the user.
      (2)   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation,
the user shall notify the control authority within 24 hours of becoming aware
of the violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and
submit the results of the repeat analysis to the control authority within 30
days after becoming aware of the violation, except the industrial user is not
required to resample if:
         (a)   The control authority performs sampling at the industrial user
at a frequency of at least once per month; or
         (b)   The control authority performs sampling at the industrial user
between the time the user performs its initial sampling and the time the user
receives the results of this sampling.
(2012 Code, § 88-203)
   (B)   Show cause hearing.
      (1)   The city may order any user who causes or allows an unauthorized
discharge to enter the POTW to show cause before the City Council why the
proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A notice shall be served on
the user specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the City
Council regarding the violation, the reason why the action is to be taken, the
proposed enforcement action and directing the user to show cause before the
City Council why the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The
notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered or certified
mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days before the hearing. Service
may be made on any agent or officer of a corporation.
      (2)   The City Council may conduct the hearing and take the evidence, or
may designate any of its members or any officer or employee of the city to:
         (a)   Issue in the name of the City Council notices of hearing
requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of
evidence relevant to any matter involved in such hearings;
         (b)   Take the evidence; and
         (c)   Transmit a report of the evidence, including transcripts and
other evidence, together with recommendations to the City Council for action on
the evidence.
      (3)   The transcript will be made available to any member of the public
or any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual charges.
      (4)   After the City Council or its authorized officer has reviewed the
evidence, it may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge
directing that, following a specified time period, the sewer service be
discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances shall have been installed or existing treatment facilities,
devices or other related appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders
and directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(2012 Code, § 88-204)
   (C)   Legal action.
      (1)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the city’s wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this
chapter, federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the city,
the city may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief
in any court of competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   The city shall be entitled to recover from the person making or
causing the discharge all fines and penalties levied against the city by any
other governmental body or agency having jurisdiction.
(2012 Code, § 88-205)
§ 53.45  FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, record, report or plan or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater
contribution permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter, shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine.
   (B)   In accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(n), the reports and other
documents required to be submitted or maintained under this section shall be
subject to:
      (1)   The provisions of 18 U.S.C. § 1001 relating to fraud and false
statements;
      (2)   The provisions of § 309(c)(4) of the Act, as amended, governing
false statements, representation or certification; and
      (3)   The provisions of § 309(c)(6) of the Act regarding responsible
corporate officers.
(2012 Code, § 88-207)  (Ord. 961002, passed 10-8-1996)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   Any user who is found to have violated an order of the City Council or who
willfully or negligently failed to comply with any provision of this chapter,
and the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued under this chapter, shall
be fined in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances for each offense. Each day on which a
violation shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
offense. In addition to the penalties provided in this section, the city may
recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs, court reporter’s fees and
other expenses of litigation at law against the person found to have violated
this chapter or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued under this
chapter.
(2012 Code, § 88-206)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
72.   VEHICLE OPERATION
      
73.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
74.   PEDESTRIANS
      
75.   RAILROADS
      
76.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
77.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Generally
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Chief of Police; general duties and authority
   
70.03   Police officers and firefighters; enforcement
   
70.04   Obedience required
   
70.05   General violations and offenses
   
70.06   Toy vehicles; helmets
   
70.07   Accident reports
   
70.08   Application
   
70.09   Annual traffic report
Operation of Golf Carts on Public Highways
   
70.25   Generally
   
70.26   Safety equipment required
   
70.27   Financial responsibility required
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Parking, towing and storage of vehicles, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch.
681 et seq.
   Powers of local authorities, see Tex. Transportation Code §§ 542.201 et seq.
   Regulation of certain drivers and porters, see Tex. Local Government Code §
215.029
   Regulation of parking, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 601.001 et seq.
   Rules of the road, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 541 et seq.
   Vehicles and traffic, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 501 et seq.
GENERALLY
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The definitions provided in Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 541 are
adopted as a part of this section as if set out at length in this section.
   (B)   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED DRIVER. A person who is at least 18 years of age or possesses
a valid state driver’s license.
      BICYCLE. A human-powered vehicle with two wheels in tandem, designed to
transport, by a pedaling action, a person or persons.
      CONTROL-ACCESS HIGHWAY. A highway or roadway to which:
         (a)   Persons, including owners or occupants of abutting real
property, have no right of access; and
         (b)   Access by persons to enter or exit the highway or roadway is
restricted under law except at a place and in the manner determined by the
authority that has jurisdiction over the highway or roadway.
      CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
      DRIVER. As used in reference to a vehicle, a person who drives or has
physical control of a vehicle.
      ELECTRIC BICYCLE. As defined by Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201(24),
means a bicycle that:
         (a)   Is designed to be propelled by an electric motor, exclusively or
in combination with the application of human power;
         (b)   Cannot attain a speed of more than 20 mph without the
application of human power; and
         (c)   Does not exceed a weight of 100 pounds.
      FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
      GOLF CART.  A motor vehicle designed by the manufacturer primarily for
transporting persons on a golf course.
      MANUAL. The Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets
and Highways, Volumes I and II.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle
which is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but
not operated upon rails.
      NEIGHBORHOOD ELECTRIC VEHICLE (NEV).  Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 551,
Subchapter D shows NEVs on city streets with a speed limit of 45 miles an hour
or less, unless a city prohibits them. NEVs are larger than golf carts, but
smaller than most passenger vehicles. The Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard
requires that NEVs be equipped with headlamps, stop lamps, turn signal lamps,
tail lamps, reflex reflectors, parking brakes, rear view mirrors, windshields,
seat belts and vehicle identification numbers. In any case, the law governing
NEVs is separate from the law governing golf carts.
      OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES. All signs, signals, markings and
devices not inconsistent with this traffic code placed or erected by authority
of a public body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of
regulating, warning or guiding traffic.
      PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE. A place adjacent to a curb for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
      PUBLIC HIGHWAY.  Has the meaning assigned by Tex. Transportation Code §
502.001, as amended. Any road, street, avenue, or bridge, within the city not
privately-owned or within the exclusive control or jurisdiction of the state.
      SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM.  Has the meaning assigned by Tex.
Transportation Code § 547.703.
(2012 Code, § 84-1)  (Ord. passed 9-4-2012)
§ 70.02  CHIEF OF POLICE; GENERAL DUTIES AND AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to conduct analysis of
traffic accidents and to devise remedial measures, to conduct investigations of
traffic conditions and to cooperate with other city officials in the
development of ways and means to improve traffic conditions, and to carry out
the additional powers and duties imposed by this traffic code and other traffic
ordinances.
(2012 Code, § 84-3)
   (B)   The Chief of Police is empowered to make regulations necessary to make
effective the provisions of this traffic code and other traffic ordinances and
to make and enforce temporary or experimental regulations to cover emergencies
or special conditions. No such temporary or experimental regulation shall
remain in effect for more than 90 days, nor shall it be effective until
approved by the Mayor.
(2012 Code, § 84-4)
§ 70.03  POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement generally. It shall be the duty of the officers of the
Police Department or such officers as are assigned by the Chief of Police to
enforce all street traffic laws of the city and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in the city.
(2012 Code, § 84-5)
   (B)   Authority of police officers to direct traffic.
      (1)   Officers of the Police Department or such officers as are assigned
by the Chief of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice,
hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws.
      (2)   In the event of fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or
to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the Police Department may direct traffic
as conditions may require, notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(2012 Code, § 84-6)
   (C)   Authority of officers of Fire Department to direct traffic. Officers
of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or assist the
police in directing traffic at the scene or in the immediate vicinity.
(2012 Code, § 84-7)
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate traffic by police officers, see Tex.
Transportation Code § 542.202(a)(1)
§ 70.04  OBEDIENCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of:
   (A)   A police officer or Fire Department official given to direct or
control traffic as authorized in this traffic code; or
   (B)   A school crossing guard who is performing crossing guard duties in a
school crosswalk to stop and yield to a pedestrian.
(2012 Code, § 84-8)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 542.501
§ 70.05  GENERAL VIOLATIONS AND OFFENSES.
   (A)   Riding on portion of vehicle not intended for passengers. No person
shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion of a vehicle not designated or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to any
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
(2012 Code, § 84-9)
   (B)   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles. No person shall board or
alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in motion.
(2012 Code, § 84-10)
   (C)   Clinging to vehicles. No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle,
coaster, sled, roller skates or any toy vehicle shall attach any such device or
himself or herself to any vehicle upon any roadway.
(2012 Code, § 84-11)
   (D)   Dangerous substances not to be deposited in street. No person shall
throw or deposit upon any street or alley any glass bottle, glass, nails,
tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure any person, animal or
vehicle upon such street or alley.
(2012 Code, § 84-13)
   (E)   Giving false information in promise to appear for traffic violation.
It shall be unlawful for any person, when giving a written promise to appear,
or when given a written notice by any police officer to appear before the
Municipal Court to answer for an offense against any traffic law of the state,
or any provision of this traffic code or other traffic ordinance provision of
the city, to give an assumed or fictitious name or a false place of residence
or address, or any other than the true name and the true place of his or her
residence or address, upon the request of such officer.
(2012 Code, § 84-19)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 551.102
§ 70.06  TOY VEHICLES; HELMETS.
   (A)   Use of roller skates, coasters, similar devices on roadway. No person
upon roller skates, or riding in or by means of any coaster, toy vehicle or
similar device, shall go upon any roadway, except while crossing a street on a
crosswalk; and, when so crossing, such person shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to pedestrians.
(2012 Code, § 84-12)
   (B)   Helmet required for children riding or operating bicycles or electric
bicycles.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any child to operate or ride upon a bicycle or
electric bicycle, or any sidecar, trailer, child carrier, seat or other device
attached to a bicycle or electric bicycle by any means, unless the child is
wearing a helmet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for a parent to allow or permit a child to operate
or ride a bicycle or electric bicycle, or any sidecar, trailer, child carrier,
seat or other device attached to a bicycle or electric bicycle, unless the
child is wearing a helmet.
      (3)   It is a defense to prosecution that the bicycle or electric bicycle
was not being operated upon a public way at the time of the alleged offense.
(2012 Code, § 84-20)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate roller skaters, see Tex. Transportation Code §
542.202(a)(5)
§ 70.07  ACCIDENT REPORTS.
   (A)   (1)   The operator of a vehicle involved in an accident resulting in
injury to or death of a person or damage to a vehicle to the extent that it
cannot be normally and safely driven shall immediately, by the quickest means
of communication, give notice of the accident to the:
         (a)   Police Department if the accident occurred in the city;
         (b)   Police Department or the Sheriff’s office if the accident
occurred not more than 100 feet outside the limits of the city; or
         (c)   Sheriff’s office or the nearest office of the Department if the
accident is not required to be reported under divisions (A)(1)(a) and (A)(1)(b)
above.
      (2)   (a)   If a section of road is within 100 feet of the limits of more
than one municipality, the municipalities may agree regarding the maintenance
of reports made under division (A)(1)(b) above. A county may agree with
municipalities in the county regarding the maintenance of reports made under
division (A)(1)(b) above.
         (b)   An agreement under this division (A)(2) does not affect the duty
to report an accident under division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   The Police Department shall receive and properly file all accident
reports made to it under state law or under this section, but all such accident
reports made by drivers shall be for the confidential use of the Police
Department, and no such report shall be admissible in any civil or criminal
proceedings other than upon request of the person making such report or upon
request of the court having jurisdiction to prove a compliance with the law
requiring the making of such report.
      (4)   The Police Department shall maintain a suitable system of filing
traffic accident reports. Accident reports or cards referring to them shall be
filed alphabetically by location. Such reports shall be available for the use
and information of the Chief of Police.
(2012 Code, § 84-14)
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to investigate
traffic accidents and to arrest and to assist in the prosecution of those
persons charged with violations of law causing or contributing to such
accidents.
      (2)   Whenever the accidents at any particular location become numerous,
the Police Department shall conduct a study of such accidents and determine
remedial measures which should be taken.
(2012 Code, § 84-15)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 550.026
§ 70.08  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application of traffic code to persons propelling pushcarts, riding
animals. Every person propelling any pushcart or riding any animal upon a
roadway, and every person driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to
the provisions of this traffic code applicable to the driver of any vehicle,
except those provisions which, by their very nature, can have no application.
(2012 Code, § 84-16)
   (B)   Application of chapter to drivers of government vehicles. The
provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the driver of any vehicle owned
by or used in the service of the United States Government, this state, county
or city; and it shall be unlawful for any such driver to violate any of the
provisions of this traffic code, except as otherwise permitted in this traffic
code or by state statute.
(2012 Code, § 84-17)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code §§ 542.002 and 542.003
§ 70.09  ANNUAL TRAFFIC REPORT.
   (A)   The Police Department shall annually prepare a traffic report, which
shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Such report shall contain information on traffic matters in the city
as follows:
      (1)   The number of traffic accidents, the number of persons killed, the
number of persons injured and other pertinent traffic accident data;
      (2)   The number of traffic accidents investigated and other pertinent
data on the safety activities of the police; and
      (3)   The plans and recommendations of the Department for future traffic
safety activities.
(2012 Code, § 84-18)
OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC HIGHWAYS
§ 70.25  GENERALLY.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person to operate a golf cart on a public highway
except as permitted by this section.
   (B)   An authorized driver may operate a golf cart on a public highway where
the speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less except that a golf cart may not be
operated on Texas Highway 6 or Farm Road 219.
   (C)   An authorized driver may cross public highways (including Texas
Highway 6 and Farm Road 219) at intersections where posted speed limits are 46
miles per hour or less.
   (D)   Drivers must follow the rules of the road described in Tex.
Transportation Code Ch. 545.
   (E)   Golf carts may only be operated on public highways between dawn and
dusk.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2012)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.26  SAFETY EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   The following safety equipment is required for operation of golf carts on
public highways:
   (A)   Slow moving vehicle emblem per Tex. Transportation Code § 547.703;
   (B)   Headlamps;
   (C)   Tail lamps;
   (D)   Reflectors;
   (E)   Parking brake;
   (F)   Rear-view mirrors; and
   (G)   One flashing amber light mounted at or near the highest point on the
vehicle.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2012)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.27  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REQUIRED.
   An authorized driver may not operate a golf cart on a public highway unless
financial responsibility is established for the golf cart in the same manner
that financial responsibility is established for a motor vehicle under Tex.
Transportation Code § 601.051.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2012)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of §§
70.25 through
70.27 of this chapter shall be fined not more than$200 for each offense. Each
day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. passed 9-4-2012)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
   
71.01   Consistency with state regulations
   
71.02   Installation
   
71.03   Chief of Police; general powers and duties
   
71.04   Crosswalks, safety zones and traffic lanes
   
71.05   Necessity of signs
   
71.06   Traffic lights
   
71.07   Ratification of existing devices
§ 71.01  CONSISTENCY WITH STATE REGULATIONS.
   All traffic-control devices, including signs, signals and markings (pavement
and/or curb), installed or used for the purpose of directing and controlling
traffic within the city shall conform with the manual. Tex. Transportation Code
Ch. 544 provides that all traffic-control devices erected or used by the city
must conform to the manual. All traffic-control devices being consistent with
the manual, state law and this chapter shall be official traffic-control
devices.
(2012 Code, § 84-91)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 544.002
§ 71.02  INSTALLATION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council shall, by ordinance, direct that the Public
Works Administrator shall have the duty of erecting or installing upon, over,
along or beside any highway, street or alley signs, signals and markings, or
cause them to be erected, installed or placed in accordance with this chapter
and consistent with the manual. These traffic-control devices shall be
installed immediately, or as soon as such specific device, sign or signal can
be procured.
      (2)   Whenever the Public Works Administrator has erected and installed
any official traffic-control device, signal or sign at any location in the
city, or has caused the installation to be done under his or her direction, in
obedience to this chapter and the manual, he or she shall, thereafter, file a
report with the City Secretary in writing and signed officially by the Public
Works Administrator, stating the type of traffic-control device, sign or
signal, and when and where it was erected and installed. The City Secretary
shall file and maintain such report of the Public Works Administrator among the
official papers of the office of the City Secretary.
(2012 Code, § 84-92)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person other than the Public
Works Administrator, acting pursuant to an ordinance of the city, to install or
cause to be installed any signal, sign or device purporting to direct the use
of the streets or the activities on those streets of pedestrians, vehicles,
motor vehicles or animals, proof in any prosecution for a violation of this
chapter or any traffic ordinance of the city that any traffic-control device,
sign, signal or marking was actually in place on any street shall constitute
prima facie evidence that it was installed by the Public Works Administrator
pursuant to the authority of this chapter and of the ordinance directing the
installation of such device, signal or marking.
(2012 Code, § 84-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03  CHIEF OF POLICE; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Chief of Police shall place and maintain traffic-control signs, signals
and devices when and as required under this chapter to make effective the
provisions of this chapter, and may place and maintain such additional traffic-
control devices as he or she may deem necessary to regulate traffic under this
chapter or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic. It shall be the duty
of the Chief of Police to supervise the installation and proper timing and
maintenance of traffic-control devices.
(2012 Code, § 84-94)
§ 71.04  CROSSWALKS, SAFETY ZONES AND TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at any intersection where, in his or her
opinion, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at
such other places as he or she may deem necessary;
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as he or she may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians; and
   (C)   To mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he or
she may deem advisable, consistent with this chapter and other traffic
ordinances of the city.
(2012 Code, § 84-95)
§ 71.05  NECESSITY OF SIGNS.
   No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
(2012 Code, § 84-96)
§ 71.06  TRAFFIC LIGHTS.
   The Chief of Police, as authorized by the City Council, shall designate
intersections at which traffic shall be controlled by electric traffic-control
signals or lights and shall cause such signals or lights to be installed and
maintained at such intersections.
(2012 Code, § 84-97)
§ 71.07  RATIFICATION OF EXISTING DEVICES.
   All traffic-control devices, including signs, signals and markings of
streets and curbs in existence on 9-8-1998, are ratified and adopted by the
city as valid and enforceable traffic-control devices. The Public Works
Administrator was directed to list all such traffic-control devices in
existence as of 9-8-1998, and to deliver the list to the City Secretary.
(2012 Code, § 84-98)
CHAPTER 72:  VEHICLE OPERATION
Section
   
72.01   Prohibiting turns at intersections
   
72.02   U-turns
   
72.03   One-way streets and alleys
   
72.04   Obstructing traffic, intersection or crosswalk
   
72.05   Driving in, between processions
   
72.06   Driving on fresh pavement
   
72.07   Engine braking prohibited
§ 72.01  PROHIBITING TURNS AT INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police is authorized, subject to approval by the City
Council, to determine those intersections at which drivers of vehicles shall
not make a right turn, left turn or U-turn, and shall place proper signs at
such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited between certain
hours of any day and permitted at other hours, in which event that information
shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when such turns
are permitted.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right turn,
left turn or U-turn is permitted, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the
directions of such signs.
(2012 Code, § 84-51)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02  U-TURNS.
   (A)   No U-turn shall be made by the driver of any vehicle at any
intersection where electric traffic- control signals or stop signs are in
operation.
   (B)   U-turns are prohibited between intersections, but may be made at
intersections where no such traffic-control devices are in operation unless
such turn is prohibited as provided in §
72.01 of this chapter.
   (C)   Turning from a parked position to the left between intersections to
travel in the opposite direction is defined as a U-turn within the meaning of
this section.
(2012 Code, § 84-52)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03  ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Whenever the City Council designates any one-way street or alley, the Chief
of Police shall place and maintain signs giving notice of such one-way street
or alley; and no such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in
place. Signs indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be
placed at every intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite
direction is prohibited.
(2012 Code, § 84-53)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   One-way streets and alleys, see
Ch. 76 Schd. I
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to designate one-way highways and require vehicles thereon
to move in one      specific direction, see Tex. Transportation Code § 542.202
(a)(10)
§ 72.04  OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC, INTERSECTION OR CROSSWALK.
   (A)   General. It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, drive or propel
a vehicle in such manner as to block or obstruct the traffic on any street or
alley of the city.
(2012 Code, § 84-55)
   (B)   Obstructing intersection or crosswalk. No driver shall enter an
intersection or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the
other side of the intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he or
she is operating without obstructing the passage of other vehicles or
pedestrians, notwithstanding any traffic-control signal indication to proceed.
(2012 Code, § 84-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05  DRIVING IN, BETWEEN PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   Each driver in a funeral or other procession shall drive as near to
the right-hand edge of the roadway as practical and shall follow the vehicle
ahead as close as is practical and safe.
(2012 Code, § 84-57)
   (B)   (1)   No driver of a vehicle, except authorized emergency vehicles,
shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized
procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously
identified.
      (2)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic-control signals or police officers.
(2012 Code, § 84-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.06  DRIVING ON FRESH PAVEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any vehicle upon any portion of
any street in the city that has been freshly paved unless all barriers or
signal lights have been lawfully removed from the street indicating that the
street is ready for travel.
(2012 Code, § 84-59)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.07  ENGINE BRAKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or permit the operation of the engine of a motor
vehicle so as to assist in braking or slowing the vehicle through the use of
gears or through the use of any engine brake or engine retarding device on any
public right-of-way, including all city-maintained streets and state-maintained
roadways (SH 6, FM 219 and FM 3220) within the corporate limits of the city.
(2012 Code, § 84-60)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 73:  STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
   
73.01   Prohibition for certain purposes
   
73.02   Ten feet of roadway to be left available for traffic
   
73.03   Designation and marking of parking spaces
   
73.04   Parking in prohibited areas
   
73.05   Parallel and angle parking
   
73.06   Parking or standing in alleys
   
73.07   Loading and unloading
   
73.08   Impoundment
   
73.09   Presumption that owner of vehicle illegally parked vehicle
   
73.10   Truck parking
   
73.11   Parking in certain zoned areas
§ 73.01  PROHIBITION FOR CERTAIN PURPOSES.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
purpose of:
   (A)   Displaying it for sale; or
   (B)   Washing, greasing, filling with gas or oil or repairing such vehicle,
except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
(2012 Code, § 84-167)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.02  TEN FEET OF ROADWAY TO BE LEFT AVAILABLE FOR TRAFFIC.
   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the
width of either lane of a roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic;
except that, a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or
unloading of passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations
or traffic signs or signals of a police officer.
(2012 Code, § 84-168)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.03  DESIGNATION AND MARKING OF PARKING SPACES.
   (A)   The city shall cause parking spaces to be maintained and marked off in
and on such streets and parts of streets or other city property as may be
designated by the City Council, and the city shall cause spaces in which
parking is prohibited to be maintained and marked off in and on such streets
and parts of streets or other city property as may be designated by the City
Council. The city shall also cause time limit parking areas to be maintained
and marked off in and on such parts of streets as may be designated by the City
Council. All such spaces or areas shall be clearly indicated by appropriate
signs or markings on the pavement.
   (B)   In areas designated as time limit parking areas, parking may be
limited to any period prescribed by the Council, to be designated with clearly
distinguishable markings or signs at both ends of the time limit area and at
reasonable intervals between the beginning and ending of such time limit area,
indicating the time allowed for parking in such area.
   (C)   Any time limit on parking established under this section shall apply
on such days and between such hours as prescribed by the Council.
(2012 Code, § 84-169)
§ 73.04  PARKING IN PROHIBITED AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or suffer any
vehicle registered in his or her name or owned or operated by him or her or in
his or her possession or under his or her control to be or remain in any space
or area in which parking is prohibited as provided in §
73.03 of this chapter, or in a time limit parking area for a longer period of
time than that designated by the markings on the street or by signs clearly
visible.
(2012 Code, § 84-170)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05  PARALLEL AND ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   On one-way streets, vehicles may be parked on the left side of the
street, with the left-hand wheels within 18 inches of the curb or edge of the
roadway unless signs prohibit such parking.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall determine upon which streets angle parking shall
be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle parking shall
not be indicated upon any federal-aid or state highway within the city unless
the Director of the state’s Department of Transportation has determined that
the roadway is of sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering
with the free movement of traffic.
      (2)   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place
where passing traffic would be caused or required to drive upon the left side
of the street or upon any railway tracks.
   (C)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking,
no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. Whenever parking
spaces are marked by lines on the pavement, whether for parallel or angle
parking, a vehicle must be parked entirely within the lines of the parking
space.
(2012 Code, § 84-171)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 545.303
§ 73.06  PARKING OR STANDING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to have available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stand
or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the driveway
entrance to any abutting property.
(2012 Code, § 84-172)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.07  LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   Generally. All freight trucks shall be loaded and unloaded from an
alley entrance, if practicable. Where conditions are such as to make the
loading or unloading thereof from an alley impracticable, such trucks shall be
parked on the street in accord with all applicable provisions of this chapter
and state law.
(2012 Code, § 84-173)
   (B)   Permit to back to curb for loading or unloading. The Chief of Police
is authorized to issue special permits to permit the backing of a vehicle to
the curb for the purpose of loading or unloading merchandise or materials
subject to the terms and conditions of such permit. Such permits may be issued
either to the owner or lessee of real property or to the owner of the vehicle
and shall grant to such person the privilege as stated in the permit and
authorized in this section, and it shall be unlawful for any permittee or other
person to violate any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit.
(2012 Code, § 84-174)
   (C)   Designation and use of curb loading zones.
      (1)   The city shall determine the location of passenger and freight curb
loading zones and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating such
zones and stating the hours during which the provisions of this division (C)
are applicable, where the dimensions of the streets and sidewalks, the flow of
traffic and the use of property abutting the streets are such that it is
necessary for the free flow and expeditious handling of traffic and the safety
of persons and property.
      (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zones are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three minutes.
      (3)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(2012 Code, § 84-175) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are authorized to remove a vehicle
from a street or highway to the nearest garage or other place of safety, or to
a garage or parking lot designated or maintained by the Police Department or
otherwise maintained by the city, under the following circumstances:
      (1)   When a vehicle upon a roadway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is, by reason of
physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to provide for
its custody or removal;
      (2)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic; or
      (3)   When any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite obstruction to employees of the city
engaged in cleaning the street upon which the vehicle is illegally parked, or
when any vehicle is illegally parked and constitutes an obstruction to access
by city employees for city purposes.
   (B)   If a non-resident of the city has failed on more than one occasion to
comply with notice attached to an illegally parked vehicle owned by him or her,
and warrants have been issued for his or her arrest, but not served because of
his or her absence, the police are authorized to impound his or her vehicle as
provided in this section, when such vehicle is next found left unattended upon
a street and illegally parked.
   (C)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street as authorized in
this section and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from the
registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner, such
officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in writing to such
owner of the fact of such removal and the reasons for the removal and of the
place to which such vehicle has been removed. If any such vehicle is stored in
a public garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to the proprietor of such
garage.
   (D)   Whenever an officer removes a vehicle from a street under this section
and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of the owner, or for
any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as provided, and if
the vehicle is not returned to the owner within a period of three days, the
officer shall immediately send or cause to be sent a written report of such
removal by mail to the state’s Department of Transportation. Such notice shall
include: a complete description of the vehicle; the date, time and place from
which removed; the reasons for such removal; and the name of the garage or
place where the vehicle is stored.
   (E)   If a vehicle is removed from a street under this section, the owner of
the vehicle shall pay, in addition to the fine, if any, assessed against him or
her, reasonable costs incurred in removing the vehicle from the street and
reasonable storage for the time the vehicle is stored in a garage or parking
lot.
(2012 Code, § 84-176)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of unlawfully stopped vehicle, see Tex. Transportation Code §
545.305
§ 73.09  PRESUMPTION THAT OWNER OF VEHICLE ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE.
   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing
the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle
described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was,
at the time of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point
where, and for the time during which, such violation occurred.
(2012 Code, § 84-177)
§ 73.10  TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or any owner to leave, park or
stand any truck tractor, road tractor, truck trailer, semi-trailer or any other
commercial motor vehicle with a rated capacity of at least two and one-half
tons (according to the manufacturer’s classification) in the following areas:
      (1)   Upon streets, alleys or public or private property within or
providing the boundary of any area zoned as a single-family dwelling district,
two-family dwelling district or multiple-family dwelling district as
established by
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances; or
      (2)   Upon streets, alleys or public property within or providing the
boundary of any area zoned as a commercial district and marked with “No Truck
Parking” signs.
   (B)   This section shall not preclude parking in properly designated and
marked truck parking areas in any location, as may be established from time to
time by the City Council, or in the rights-of-way of state-maintained highways
where parking is permitted and appropriate signs are displayed. This section
shall not prevent the parking or standing of the above-described vehicles in
any of the named zones for the purpose of expeditiously loading and unloading
passengers, freight or merchandise.
   (C)   When the boundary of a zoning classification is a street, the boundary
line referred to in divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above shall be the middle of
said street unless otherwise determined by the City Council on a case-by-case
basis.
(2012 Code, § 84-178)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.11  PARKING IN CERTAIN ZONED AREAS.
   No motor vehicles, trailers, recreational vehicles, other vehicles or other
similar equipment are allowed to be parked in the front yard of a lot, except
on an improved driveway made of concrete, paving material or gravel, and which
conforms to the International Building Code.
(2012 Code, § 84-179)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 74:  PEDESTRIANS
Section
   
74.01   Application
   
74.02   Manner of crossing roadway
   
74.03   Drivers to exercise due care
§ 74.01  APPLICATION.
   Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals as provided in this
traffic code or by law, but, at all other places, pedestrians shall be granted
those rights and be subject to the restrictions stated in this chapter and in
Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 552.
(2012 Code, § 84-211)
§ 74.02  MANNER OF CROSSING ROADWAY.
   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway at any place other than by a route at
right angles to the curb or by the shortest route to the opposite curb, except
in a crosswalk or in the manner authorized by a traffic- control device.
(2012 Code, § 84-212)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 552.005
§ 74.03  DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, or of Tex.
Transportation Code Ch. 552, the driver of a vehicle shall:
   (A)   Exercise due care to avoid colliding with a pedestrian on a roadway;
   (B)   Give warning by sounding the horn when necessary; and
   (C)   Exercise proper precaution on observing a child or an obviously
confused or incapacitated person on a roadway.
(2012 Code, § 84-213)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Transportation Code § 552.008
CHAPTER 75:  RAILROADS
Section
   
75.01   Duty to keep crossings in repair
   
75.02   Drainage of roadbeds
   
75.03   Jumping on or off or clinging to moving trains
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city relative to railroads, see Tex. Local Government Code §§
43.903 and 273.003
§ 75.01  DUTY TO KEEP CROSSINGS IN REPAIR.
   Every railroad company operating a railroad in or through any part of the
city shall keep that portion of its roadbed and right-of-way over which crosses
any street or public road in the city in proper condition for the use of the
traveling public. In case of any company’s failure to comply with this section
for 30 days after written notice so to do is given by the city, such company
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2012 Code, § 84-291)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Crossings of public roads, see Tex. Transportation Code § 112.059
§ 75.02  DRAINAGE OF ROADBEDS.
   In no case shall any railroad company construct a roadbed in or through the
city without first constructing the necessary culverts or sluices as the
natural lay of the land requires for the drainage of the adjacent land. If any
such company makes any culvert or sluiceway under its roadbed which is
insufficient to carry all the water that flows to it, whenever the company is
notified to enlarge such culverts or sluiceways within 20 days, by service of
written notice upon the section boss in charge of the section where such
obstruction exists, the company shall proceed to repair and enlarge the culvert
or sluiceway within 20 days after service of such notice. Any railroad company
failing to make the necessary repairs within such time shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2012 Code, § 84-292)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Culverts or sluices, see Tex. Water Code §§ 56.120 and 56.121
§ 75.03  JUMPING ON OR OFF OR CLINGING TO MOVING TRAINS.
   Whoever, not being an employee or passenger of any railroad car or engine or
train, shall jump on or off of the train, or shall cling to or hang onto any
car or locomotive while the train is in motion, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(2012 Code, § 84-293)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 76:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets and alleys
      
II.   Speed limits
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The following streets or alleys are designated as one-way streets:
 
Street                        Location/Provision
                              North Avenue C shall cease to be designated as a
                              one-way street from the intersection of West 3rd
Avenue C (effective 6-1-2004) to FM 219 and shall return to two-way traffic
                              with parallel parking on both sides of the
                              street, as appropriate
 
(2012 Code, § 84-54)
SCHEDULE II. SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Maximum limits generally. No person shall operate or drive any vehicle
on any street within the city at a greater speed than 30 mph unless signs are
erected designating another speed in accordance with this schedule or state
law.
(2012 Code, § 84-131)
   (B)   Specific speed limits.
      (1)   The section of highway described as follows: on FM 219 from the
west city limit to the east for a distance of 0.559 mile, the speed limit shall
be 40 mph; then for a distance of 0.200 mile, the speed limit shall be 30 mph,
except during times of egress and ingress to the school, in which case the
speed limit shall be 25 mph; then for a distance of 0.485 mile, the speed limit
shall be 30 mph; then for a distance of 0.250 mile (to the east city limit),
the speed limit shall be 40 mph; is regulated as to the speed of motor vehicles
traveling within such section in any direction as evidenced by the plan
attached to the ordinance from which this division (B)(1) derives; which is
hereby approved and made a part of the ordinance from which this division (B)
(1) derives; and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a
speed in excess of any speed so declared in the ordinance from which this
division (B)(1) derives when signs are in place giving notice of such speed.
      (2)   The section of highway described as follows: on SH 6, beginning at
the north city limit and proceeding to the south, the speed limit shall be 50
mph for a distance of 0.300 mile; then the speed shall be 45 mph for a distance
of 0.474 mile; then the speed limit shall be 35 mph for a distance of 0.350
mile; then the speed limit shall be 30 mph for a distance of 0.310 mile; then
the speed limit shall be 35 mph for a distance of 0.310 mile, except in a
section during periods of ingress and egress to the school, the speed limit
shall be 25 mph for a distance of 0.155 mile; then to the south city limit, the
speed limit shall be 45 mph for a distance of 0.320 mile; is regulated as to
the speed of motor vehicles traveling within such section in any direction as
evidenced by the plan attached to the ordinance from which this division (B)(2)
derives, which is approved and made a part of the ordinance from which this
division (B)(2) derives; and it shall be unlawful for any person to drive a
vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed so declared in the ordinance from
which this division (B)(2) derives, when signs are in place giving notice of
such speed.
      (3)   The section of street described as follows: the speed limit on
Hillside Drive, beginning at the intersection with 13th Street, and proceeding
to the intersection of 9th Street shall be 15 mph. On Hillside Drive, within 50
feet of the intersection with 9th Street, the speed limit shall be five mph. It
shall be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle in excess of these speeds
when signs giving notice are in place.
(2012 Code, § 84-132)
   (C)   Criteria for establishment of school zones.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of a reduced speed school zone is to increase
driver awareness and to promote lower vehicle speed at a location where school
children are crossing a roadway. Reduced speed school zones are generally
located on major thoroughfares and where there are no other traffic- control
devices to slow or halt the major flow of traffic. Except where determined by
an engineering investigation, reduced speed school zones should not be
installed at crossings protected by a traffic signal or an all-way stop since
these devices provide a higher degree of crossing protection.
      (2)   Criteria for installation.
         (a)   Reduced speed school zones may be installed at an established
school crossing that exhibits any of the following conditions:
            1.   On streets directly adjacent to elementary school grounds when
considered necessary for pedestrian safety;
            2.   At an uncontrolled intersection or mid-block crossing where an
adult school crossing guard has been assigned; or
            3.   At an uncontrolled intersection or mid-block crossing where an
adult crossing guard or student safety patrol has not been assigned and where:
               a.   Forty or more school aged pedestrians cross during a
contiguous two-hour period or 20 or more school aged pedestrians during a one-
hour period;
               b.   Two hundred or more vehicles per hour (total for both
directions) during the same period that students are crossing;
               c.   The posted speed limit or the eighty-fifth percentile speed
is 35 mph or greater on the street being crossed; and
               d.   There are no other crossings controlled by a traffic
signal, an all-way stop, adult crossing guard or reduced speed school zone
within 800 feet of the proposed location on the same street.
         (b)   Other factors to be considered in determining when to install a
reduced speed school zone at a proposed location include:
            1.   The age of the children utilizing the proposed crossing;
            2.   The available sight distance to the proposed crossing; and
            3.   The availability and proximity of sidewalks to the proposed
crossing.
      (3)   School zone speed limits generally. Reduced speed school zones
should be operated at 20 mph or 15 mph below the normal speed limit for the
street, whichever is higher.
(2012 Code, § 84-133)
   (D)   Speed limits through school zones. Upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation, heretofore made, as authorized by the provisions of
Tex. Transportation Code § 545.357, the Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on
Highways, the prima facie speed limit of 20 mph, for vehicles is hereby
determined and declared to be prima facie reasonable and prudent, and the rate
of 20 mph is hereby fixed for vehicles traveling upon the following named
streets, or parts thereof, during the hereinafter designated hours, either when
such hours are described on official school zone speed limit signs located at
said zones, or when the school zone signs bearing a flashing amber light and
located at said zones are in operation. The location of said school zones and
the hours during which said speed zones shall be in effect are as follows:
regular school days, as published by the city’s Independent School District for
the current school year. All streets in school zones are 20 miles per hour at
all times.
(2012 Code, § 84-134) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 77:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   (A)   Avenue G and 5th Street.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or any owner or operator to
leave parked or standing any truck tractor, road tractor, truck trailer, semi-
trailer or any other motor vehicle or vehicle on streets known within the city
limits as North Avenue G, South Avenue G, East 5th Street and West 5th Street
(including city rights-of-way).
      (2)   It is not intended by this division (A) to make provisions
pertaining to abandoned motor vehicles as that term is defined by the Abandoned
Motor Vehicle Act (Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 683), nor to be in conflict
with §§
73.08 and
73.10 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   SH 6. When signs are in place giving notice, no person shall park or
leave standing a motor vehicle at any time, except during emergencies, on the
pavement or shoulder areas on either side of SH 6 within the city limits.
(2012 Code, § 84-166)  Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   JUNKED VEHICLES
      
93.   SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Regulations for keeping
   
90.02   Temporary permits for youth projects
   
90.03   Rabies notice
   
90.04   Duty of impoundment
Dogs and Cats
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Rabies Control Officer
   
90.17   Rabies
   
90.18   Registration and tagging
   
90.19   Collars and tags
   
90.20   Running at large prohibited
   
90.21   Impoundment; disposition
   
90.22   Maximum number
   
90.23   Female dogs and cats in heat
   
90.24   Vicious or dangerous dogs and cats
   
90.25   Noise
   
90.26   Sanitary conditions of pens
   
90.27   Feedings
   
90.28   Disposal of animal defecation
   
90.29   Enforcement
Dangerous and/or Wild Animals
   
90.40   Dangerous animals prohibited within or adjacent to city; ETJ portions
   
90.41   Exceptions
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Animals, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 821.001 et seq.
   Certain tax exemptions for charitable organizations, see Tex. Tax Code §
11.18
   Cruelty to animals, see Tex. Penal Code § 42.09
   Dangerous dogs, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 822.001 et seq.
   Dog fighting, see Tex. Penal Code § 42.10
   Livestock, see Tex. Agriculture Code §§ 141.001 et seq.
   Permitting head of cattle, domestic turkey to run at large in certain
counties, see      Tex. Agriculture Code § 143.082
   Rabies Control Act of 1981, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 826.001 et
seq.
   Registration and restraint of dogs and cats, see Tex. Health and Safety Code
§§ 826.031 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  REGULATIONS FOR KEEPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor within the city
limits any animal, livestock, fowl or reptile, except as specifically permitted
below.
      (1)   Dogs and cats may be kept as provided by §§
90.15 through
90.29 of this chapter.
      (2)   Nonpoisonous reptiles may be kept if confined indoors.
      (3)   Canaries, parrots, macaws and parakeets may be kept indoors in
quantities of not more than four in the aggregate per residential dwelling.
   (B)   ANIMAL, for purposes of this section, has the meaning set out in Tex.
Penal Code § 42.09.
   (C)   Upon property owned by the Clifton Independent School District, being
five acres of land, more or less out of the Frederick Lundt Survey, A-499,
Bosque County, Texas, dedicated to agricultural education by that school
district, shall be permitted a maximum of 25 four-legged animals, properly
penned and maintained at all times and never nearer than 100 feet to any
building used for eating, sleeping or living purposes. Each animal so kept or
maintained shall be solely for the purpose of a specific educational program
which is either under supervision of school district employees having personal
responsibility for the educational program and the animals kept or for bona
fide show or agricultural projects sponsored by a regional organization and
under the supervision of an adult.
(2012 Code, § 10-1)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02  TEMPORARY PERMITS FOR YOUTH PROJECTS.
   (A)   A temporary permit to keep animals under this section may be issued by
the City Secretary authorized by voice vote of the City Council, upon
satisfaction of the following conditions.
      (1)   The permit shall be for a period not to exceed 365 days from its
issuance date.
      (2)   The permitted property must be within an area zoned for industrial
use.
      (3)   The permitted property must be fenced so that an animal kept
thereon shall never be within 100 feet of any building used for residential,
commercial, governmental or industrial purposes.
      (4)   The owner of the permitted property shall present with the
application for permit a written consent to the permit executed by all abutting
property owners, whether within or without the city boundaries.
      (5)   The permit shall specify the number and kind of animals which may
be kept and the animal enclosure recommended per guidelines of the state’s
Agricultural Extension Service.
   (B)   No permit shall authorize or allow the keeping of swine within the
city boundaries under any circumstances.
   (C)   The permit shall only be granted to a property owner for the purposes
of keeping animals for city resident juveniles engaged in bona fide show or
agricultural projects and who are not eligible to house those animals in the
facilities of the city’s ISD.
   (D)   The permit may be revoked prior to its expiration upon ten days’
notice to the property owner by the city’s Health Officer acting in that
officer’s discretion upon the occurrence of any unsanitary condition or on the
complaint of any abutting property owner concerning noise, dust, pollution,
insects, vermin or noxious odor.
   (E)   The grant of a permit to a property owner on any occasion shall never
be considered precedent for the grant of any other or future application, as
every such permit shall be granted solely within the discretion of the City
Council.
(2012 Code, § 10-2)
§ 90.03  RABIES NOTICE.
   Reports of rabies shall be made as required under Tex. Health and Safety
Code § 826.041.
(2012 Code, § 10-3)
§ 90.04  DUTY OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police, or any person authorized by him
or her, to seize and impound, as provided by law, all animals and fowl found in
violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 10-4)
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICE. The Police Department of the city.
   AT LARGE. Any dog or cat off the premises of the owner, not under the
control of the owner, or a member of his or her immediate family, or keeper of
such animal either by a leash, chain, cord or harness; or not restrained
securely within an enclosure or fence.
   CAT. Both male and female of any domesticated member of the feline species
of animals.
   DOG. Both male and female of any domesticated member of the canine species
of animals.
   KENNEL. Any place where a combined total of four or more weaned dogs or
cats, over five months old are raised or kept.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog or cat.
(2012 Code, § 10-36)
§ 90.16  RABIES CONTROL OFFICER.
   The Rabies Control Officer for the city shall be the Chief of Police or that
officer’s designee.
(2012 Code, § 10-37)
§ 90.17  RABIES.
   As provided by Tex. Health and Safety Code § 826.013, the city adopts by
reference the provisions of Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 826, and the rules
promulgated by the state’s Department of Health, Rules 169.21 through 169.33,
all as amended from time to time, for the control of rabies.
(2012 Code, § 10-38)
§ 90.18  REGISTRATION AND TAGGING.
   (A)   Required. No owner shall keep a dog or cat over five months old within
the city limits for which dog or cat there is no valid tag issued by the city.
   (B)   Fee, application. All such tags shall be issued by the animal control
office or a duly authorized agent upon payment of a fee which shall be as
established by the Council for neutered animals or for animals not neutered,
and upon presentation of a certificate from a licensed veterinarian showing
that the dog or cat had been vaccinated against rabies within one year from the
date of application.
   (C)   Term. The tag shall be valid for a period of one year dating from the
date of issuance.
   (D)   Tag. Upon compliance by the owner of a dog or cat with the
registration requirements of this section, the owner shall be issued a metallic
tag for each dog or cat so registered.
(2012 Code, § 10-39)  Penalty, see §
90.99
Statutory reference:
   Fee for registration of dogs and cats, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §
826.031
§ 90.19  COLLARS AND TAGS.
   (A)   Required. The owner of a dog or cat shall provide and place on the
animal a collar or harness to which the license tag and rabies vaccine tag
required by this subchapter shall be affixed, and the owner shall see that the
collar or harness and tags are worn at all times by the dog or cat. The tag
shall at all times be securely fastened around the neck of the dog or cat, and
the failure of the owner in this respect shall have the same effect as if no
license fee had been paid upon the dog or cat. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use any counterfeit license tag upon a dog or cat, except the tag
adopted and issued by the city.
   (B)   Duplicate tags. In case a tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate will
be issued by the Police Department Secretary upon presentation of the receipt
showing the payment of the license fee for the current period, presentation of
a certificate showing that the dog or cat has been vaccinated against rabies
within one year of the date, and the payment of a fee which shall be as
established by the Council for such duplicate.
   (C)   Transferability, refunds. Dog and cat tags shall not be transferable
from one dog or cat to another, and no refunds shall be made on any license fee
because of the death of a dog or cat or the owner’s leaving the city before the
expiration period.
(2012 Code, § 10-40)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20  RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Except when a dog is under the immediate personal supervision and
command of its owner or handler, every dog, whether licensed or not, shall be
kept physically restrained from leaving the premises of the owner.
   (B)   Under the following circumstances, employees of the Police Department
are authorized and empowered to enter upon any land or premises and to take up
and impound any dog which is not then and there under the immediate personal
supervision and command of its owner or handler, and which is not then and
there being kept physically restrained from leaving the premises of its owner:
      (1)   When the safety of any human or the safety of any other animal is
being jeopardized by a dog;
      (2)   When a dog is being pursued by employees of the Police Department
who began such pursuit when the dog was not under the immediate personal
supervision and command of the owner or handler and was not being kept
physically restrained from leaving the premises of its owner; or
      (3)   When any dog is the third time found running at large in violation
of this section.
   (C)   In order for a dog to be under the immediate personal supervision and
command of its owner or handler, the dog must either be under the control of
its owner or handler by a leash or other similar device attached to a collar or
harness on the dog; under the actual physical control of the owner or handler;
or located in or on a pick-up truck.
   (D)   The city will provide a designated area in the park where dogs are
permitted to run at large as long as the owner is present. The perimeter of the
area will be marked with signs. All dogs are required to have current
vaccinations.
(2012 Code, § 10-41)  (Ord. 191101, passed 11-12-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.21  IMPOUNDMENT; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   (1)   Any dog captured or picked up under any provision of this
subchapter will be impounded in a pen provided by the city for that purpose.
The animal control office will maintain the pound, which will be under its
control. All dogs and cats so impounded shall be properly fed and cared for
while in the pound.
      (2)   The animal control office shall collect a fee which shall be as
established by the Council for each dog impounded, when redeemed, and shall
collect a fee which shall be as established by the Council for each day or
fraction of a day each dog or cat shall remain impounded.
(2012 Code, § 10-42)
   (B)   (1)   Within 24 hours after impounding any dog , the owner (if known)
will be notified and given three days in which to claim the dog or cat upon
payment of the tag and registration fee, if unregistered, and all charges and
costs incurred by the city for impounding and maintenance of the dog, unless
impounded as a result of an unprovoked attack upon a human.
      (2)   If the owner of the dog is unknown, written notice shall be posted
for three days in a conspicuous place in the Police Department describing the
dog and the place and time of apprehension.
      (3)   If claimed, the owner may redeem the dog in the same manner as in
division (B)(1) above unless impounded as a result of an unprovoked attack upon
a human.
      (4)   After three days’ notice as provided in divisions (B)(1) or (B)(2)
above, any animal impounded under division (B)(3) above or unclaimed by its
owner shall be humanely destroyed and shall not be released to its owner or
purported owner.
      (5)   Any dog impounded as a result of an unprovoked attack upon a human
shall remain impounded at its owner’s expense until a hearing is held, upon at
least three days’ notice to the owner, before the Municipal Judge. If the Judge
determines, after hearing evidence, that the dog is a dangerous dog (as defined
by Tex. Health and Safety Code § 822.041(2)), the Judge may condition release
of the dog to its owner upon the owner’s compliance with the provisions of Tex.
Health and Safety Code § 822.042, within a time certain, order the dog
permanently and prominently tattooed for future identification, or order the
dog humanely destroyed. An order of destruction of the dog is subject to appeal
as in civil cases.
(2012 Code, § 10-43)
   (C)   Any dog or cat which appears to be suffering from rabies or other
infectious or dangerous disease shall not be released, but shall be handled
under §
90.17 of this chapter, or destroyed, as is applicable.
(2012 Code, § 10-44)
§ 90.22  MAXIMUM NUMBER.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of property zoned other than
C-2 (General Business) or M-1 (Light Industrial) to keep or maintain on those
premises more than a combined total of four weaned dogs or cats. Kennels may be
maintained only upon property zoned C-2 or M-1, upon obtaining a kennel permit
from the city for an annual fee as which shall be established by the Council.
The maintenance of more than four dogs or cats upon premises not zoned C-2 or
M-1, and the maintenance of a kennel without a kennel permit shall each be a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine for each animal so maintained for each day in
which the offense occurs.
(2012 Code, § 10-45)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23  FEMALE DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or person in control of any dog or cat in
heat to allow the dog or cat to be upon the streets and in public places of the
city.
(2012 Code, § 10-46)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24  VICIOUS OR DANGEROUS DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   The city adopts by reference the provisions of Tex. Health and Safety
Code §§ 822.041 et seq.
(2012 Code, § 10-47)
   (B)   (1)   Recognizing that state laws effectively deal with vicious
animals after an attack but do not address actions that may prevent those
attacks, the city has established this subchapter to identify animals
displaying a propensity toward viciousness and action to be taken to protect
the public.
      (2)   Vicious propensity is exhibited when an animal displays an
unprovoked intent to attack a person or another animal.
      (3)   Any person who has knowledge that a dog or cat is of vicious
propensity may, upon signed complaint to the city, cause written notice to be
given by the city’s Police Department to the owner of such animal. Such notice
may be hand-delivered or mailed by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested. A copy of such letter with the receipt confirming delivery shall be
prima facie evidence that the owner of said dog or cat has been notified.
      (4)   A police investigation will confirm or invalidate the reported
vicious propensity. The owner of an animal with confirmed vicious propensity
will be warned in writing of the findings of the investigation and that to
safeguard the public, the animal must be confined or muzzled. Failure to do so
will result in a citation.
      (5)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any dog or cat
deemed to be of vicious propensity to keep such dog or cat under secure
confinement or muzzled while on a suitable leash. Secure confinement is defined
as chain-link type fencing with six-foot high sides and the bottom edge
embedded in a two-foot deep minimum four-inch thick concrete curb. Length and
width is dependent on animal size (length and width must be five times the
length of the animal or ten feet whichever is smaller). The top must be
enclosed with the same fencing material as the sides. The enclosure must have a
self closing, self-locking gate with non-removable hinges. The owner of the
animal must also show proof of a $100,000 liability insurance policy per animal
or show financial responsibility to cover damages.
      (6)   If, after notice to the owner of a dog or cat deemed to be of
vicious propensity, such dog or cat while not muzzled or while not under
confinement or restrained by a leash or chain, attacks or causes injury to any
person or other animal, the police may impound such dog or cat. If the injured
party makes an affidavit relating to the injury, confirmed by a physician that
skin was broken or other injury sustained in the attack, the city may, at its
discretion and upon due process, authorize and carry out the destruction of
such dog or cat or order it permanently removed from the city within 24 hours.
      (7)   The Municipal Court, upon receiving a citation for a violation of
this division (B), shall set a time for a hearing on the citation. The hearing
must be held not later than the fifth day after the date on which the animal
was impounded or the violation occurred.
      (8)   Except as provided in this division (B), provisions of Tex. Health
and Safety Code §§ 826.031 et seq. shall govern.
(2012 Code, § 10-52)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25  NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any dog or cat which
makes frequent, long- continued or loud and vociferous noises of such a type as
to disturb the neighbors or any inhabitants of the city.
(2012 Code, § 10-48)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26  SANITARY CONDITIONS OF PENS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have, own, keep, maintain or control
upon his or her premises within the city any lot, yard, pen or enclosures
wherein any dogs and cats are kept that shall create an obnoxious odor, or
which shall create unsanitary conditions or cause flies to breed or gather so
as to create a health or sanitary problem or be offensive to residents of the
city.
(2012 Code, § 10-49)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27  FEEDINGS.
   Any persons who shall willfully feed any untagged dog or cat on city
streets, sidewalks, parks or other public property shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances. The following areas are exempted from this
prohibition during public events: the fairgrounds; agriculture barn; and rodeo
arena areas.
(2012 Code, § 10-53)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28  DISPOSAL OF ANIMAL DEFECATION.
   The owner, handler or person in control of any dog that defecates on any
public property or any private property other than that of the animal’s owner
must immediately collect and remove such animal’s feces from the public or
private property. It is unlawful for the owner, handler or person in control of
a dog to intentionally, knowingly, recklessly, or with criminal negligence,
fail to clean up such animal’s feces after the dog has defecated on any public
property or private property other than that of the owner of the animal.
(Ord. 191102, passed 11-12-2019)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29  ENFORCEMENT.
   The animal control office and any police officer of the city shall have the
right to enforce any and all provisions of this subchapter, and the Chief of
Police is delegated authority to appoint any person to aid and assist in the
carrying out and enforcement of this subchapter.
(2012 Code, § 10-50)
DANGEROUS AND/OR WILD ANIMALS
§ 90.40  DANGEROUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED WITHIN AND ADJACENT TO CITY; ETJ
PORTIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, raise, harbor, use,
possess or have on his or her premises or under his or her control or attempted
control any dangerous and/or wild animal.
      (2)   A DANGEROUS ANIMAL is any wild or feral mammal, fowl, reptile or
insect population which by its nature or breeding has the capability of
inflicting serious bodily injury to humans. The term DANGEROUS ANIMAL also
means and includes any domestic animal, reptile, fowl or insect population
which, because of its size or vicious propensity or other characteristic could
reasonably constitute a danger to human life or property.
      (3)   A WILD ANIMAL is any mammal, amphibian, reptile or fowl of a
species that is wild by nature. Such animals shall include, but not be limited
to, mice, rats, raccoons, skunks, squirrels, opossums, snakes or armadillos.
      (4)   Any dangerous animal kept in violation of this section or found at
large may be impounded by the Police Department with whatever force is
reasonably necessary to safely secure impoundment. The Police Department shall
be authorized to impound any animal found at large or kept in violation of this
code. The Police Department shall also be authorized, upon obtaining a search
warrant, to impound any dangerous animal which the Police Department has
probable cause to believe is being kept in violation of this section. The
impoundment remedies in this section shall not be exclusive. The city shall
have the right to exercise any and all other remedies available at law or in
equity.
      (5)   The Police Department shall be authorized to destroy any dangerous
animal running at large which because of its nature, disposition or condition
would present a hazard to life or limb in an attempt to capture it. A peace
officer may destroy such animal in any life-threatening situation.
      (6)   Properties within the city, being located in rural Texas, are
likely to be visited by wild animals from time to time. Property owners are
encouraged to leave wild animals free to come and go or to take measures to
discourage the animals to stay and become a nuisance.
      (7)   A wild animal that becomes a nuisance may be trapped and relocated
by the property owner, his or her agent or upon request of the property owner,
by the city’s animal control personnel.
      (8)   No owner or custodian or person in possession of a dangerous animal
shall allow such animal to be at large. The Police Department may, but shall
not be required to, enlist the voluntary aid of any person in attempting to
capture a dangerous animal at large.
      (9)   The owner or custodian of any impounded dangerous animal shall be
liable to the city in the amount of the impoundment fees charged for other
impounded animals pursuant to the provisions of this chapter or for such fee as
may be set by ordinance and for actual feeding and care costs as determined by
the impoundment facility. No impounded dangerous animal shall be released until
all required fees and costs have been paid or arranged to be paid. Prior to
release of an impounded animal to the owner or custodian, the Police Department
shall determine that adequate provision has been made for the removal of the
animal to a place outside the city or for confinement within the city under
authority of §
90.41 of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 10-76)
   (B)   Applicable within portions of the city’s ETJ. This subchapter shall be
applicable within the city limits and within 1,000 feet of any city limits or
any contiguous city limits.
(2012 Code, § 10-79)
(Ord. 130601, passed 6-14-2013)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the keeping of
dangerous animals in the following cases:
      (1)   The keeping of such animals in zoos, bona fide educational or
medical institutions, museums or any other place where they are kept as live
specimens for the public to view, or for the purpose of instruction or study;
      (2)   The keeping of such animals for exhibition to the public by a
circus, carnival or other exhibit;
      (3)   The keeping of such animals in a bona fide licensed veterinary
hospital for treatment; and
      (4)   Dangerous or poisonous reptiles may be maintained by bona fide
educational or medical institutions for the purpose of instruction or study;
provided, such reptiles are securely confined and are properly cared for in a
manner set as satisfactory to the city’s Public Health Officer or,
alternatively, the county’s Public Health Officer.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may issue a special permit for the keeping of
such animals.
      (2)   Any permit so authorized must be renewed annually and may be issued
or renewed upon written recommendation for approval by the city’s Public Health
Officer and Chief of Police or his or her designee.
      (3)   Such permit may provide for the keeping of no more than two such
animals and requires payment of a $25 permit fee per animal.
(2012 Code, § 10-77)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §
90.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by fine for
each calendar day or part of a day in which the violation continues.
(2012 Code, § 10-1)
   (C)   (1)   Any persons who shall willfully take from any dog or cat a
collar or tag shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction,
shall be fined in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Any person violating any provisions of §§
90.15 through
90.29 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, unless other fines or penalties are
specifically enumerated.
(2012 Code, § 10-51)
   (D)   Violations of §
90.40 of this chapter are Class C misdemeanor offenses punishable by a fine,
with each occurrence and day to be considered a separate offense.
(2012 Code, § 10-78)
CHAPTER 91:  HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
Noise
   
91.01   General prohibition
   
91.02   Specific prohibitions
Nuisances
   
91.15   Statutory power
   
91.16   What constitutes a nuisance
   
91.17   Specific nuisances
   
91.18   Abatement
Weeds, Grass, Brush and Rubbish
   
91.30   Declaration of nuisance
   
91.31   Duty to keep sidewalks and parkways clean
   
91.32   Notice of failure to comply
   
91.33   Appeal to City Council; procedure; hearing
   
91.34   Abatement by city
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned or junked vehicles, see
Ch. 92
   Burning trash, leaves and refuse prohibited, see §
94.02
   Smoking, see
Ch. 93
Statutory reference:
   Air quality, see Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 382 et seq.
   Common and public nuisances, see Tex. Civil Practice and Remedies Code §§
125.001 et seq.
   Nuisances in municipalities, see Tex. Local Government Code § 217.002
   Oil and gas hazardous waste, see Tex. Natural Resources Code §§ 91.601 et
seq.
   Unreasonable noise, see Tex. Penal Code § 42.01
   Waste disposal and control of storm water, see Tex. Water Code §§ 51.331 et
seq.
NOISE
§ 91.01  GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which interferes
with the normal enjoyment of life or property or disturbs, endangers or
interferes with the public peace and comfort.
(2012 Code, § 34-31)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   The following enumerated acts are declared to be loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noises in violation of this subchapter, but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive:
   (A)   (1)   The playing of any radio, television, musical instrument,
stereo, compact disc player or other machine or device for the producing,
reproducing or amplification of sound in such manner as to create a noise which
could be reasonably considered to disturb a person of ordinary disposition
residing in the vicinity or at any time with louder volume than is necessary
for convenient hearing for persons who are in the room, vehicle, chamber or
location in which such machine or device is operated and who are voluntary
listeners is hereby prohibited; and
      (2)   The operation of such set, instrument, stereo, compact disc player,
machine or device in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a distance of 50
feet from the building, structure, vehicle or location in which it is situated
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (B)   The playing or operating or permitting to be played or operated any
radio, compact disc player or loud-speaking or noise-making device or
attachment on any premises under the ownership, management or control of such
person, when such premises are being used as a place of business to which the
public generally is invited, in such a manner or in such volume as to be
reasonably calculated to disturb the peace or to be unreasonably offensive to
the public or to the occupants of other premises in the vicinity;
   (C)   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile or other
vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal if another vehicle is
approaching apparently out of control or if in motion only as a danger signal
after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the vehicle is
intended;
   (D)   The use of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out of
repair or operated in such manner as to create loud and unnecessary spinning or
squealing of tires, grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
   (E)   The parking, storage or repairing of any motor vehicle or any
motorized equipment between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. with any
motor left in operation for an extended period; and
   (F)   The use of sound amplifying equipment for commercial advertising
purposes.
(2012 Code, § 34-32)  Penalty, see §
91.99
NUISANCES
§ 91.15  STATUTORY POWER.
   In the enforcement of this subchapter, the city shall have all of the powers
granted to the city in Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 342.
(2012 Code, § 34-66)
§ 91.16  WHAT CONSTITUTES A NUISANCE.
   Whatever is dangerous to human life or health and whatever renders the
ground, the water, the air or any food or drink unwholesome and a hazard to
human life and health is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited within the
city.
(2012 Code, § 34-67)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17  SPECIFIC NUISANCES.
   The following are declared to be nuisances and as such are liable to be
abated; and the person guilty of causing, permitting or suffering any of them
upon his or her premises or in any building occupied or controlled by him or
her or in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk or gutter immediately adjacent to
such premises shall be guilty of a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Any building, erection or cellar, or any part of such building,
erection or cellar, which is overcrowded or not provided with adequate means of
ingress or egress or is not sufficiently supported, ventilated, provided sewer
service, drained, cleaned or lighted;
   (B)   All cellars, vaults, drains, pools, privies, sewers, yards, grounds or
premises which have for any cause become foul, nauseous or offensive or
injurious to the health, or unpleasant to adjacent residences or to persons
passing such premises;
   (C)   All carcasses, all decaying flesh, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables,
all deposits of manure, all flesh of any kind or description whatever, all
filthy or offensive water or slops in any private yard or premises, and all
other unwholesome substances when thrown upon or conducted into or upon any
street, alley, public ground or enclosure in such manner as to render such
substances unwholesome and offensive or liable to become unwholesome or
offensive;
   (D)   All privies, all markets, cellars, laundries, stores or other
buildings or places which are not kept clean and free from filthy and
unwholesome substances and odors, all deposits or substances that are offensive
or liable to engender disease;
   (E)   Every trade, business or occupation determined to be injurious to the
health or comfort of persons who reside in the vicinity, and any can or
receptacle containing water, slops or rubbish suffered to become stagnant or
offensive or unwholesome from any cause;
   (F)   The act of depositing filth or any foul, offensive, nauseous or
injurious substance upon any sidewalk, street, alley, public thoroughfare or
other public place;
   (G)   The act of burning any substance of any kind;
   (H)   The act of defecating or urinating upon the streets, alleys or public
grounds, or in any place that may be seen from a private residence, or by
persons passing along the streets, alleys or public thoroughfare;
   (I)   The act of keeping, raising, possessing or having in or about the
premises, except within enclosures, any pigeons with intent to keep, raise or
breed them;
   (J)   The act by any person of permitting or allowing any weeds, filth or
rubbish of any kind to remain on any sidewalk in front of or at the side of or
upon any alley that may be at the side or rear of any premises owned by such
person;
   (K)   The act of expectorating or spitting of mucous, or saliva, or saliva
mixed with tobacco, or secretions from the nose or air passages, or the remains
of any chewed or partly chewed tobacco or snuff, or the remnant of any
partially chewed or smoked cigar or cigarette upon any sidewalk, public
building or public vehicle, place or building or public resort within the
corporate limits of the city;
   (L)   The act of hauling, carrying or transporting any meat or slaughtered
or dead animals or fish through the streets of the city without having such
material entirely covered, screened and protected from dust and public view;
   (M)   The act of throwing from any opening in, or carrying from, any
dwelling or place of abode, any night soil, feces, urine or filth or unclean
water into or upon any alley, street or sidewalk or into or upon any adjacent
property not owned by the principal;
   (N)   The act of conducting or causing to be conducted into any alley or
gutter any wastewater from any sink or tank or any source of water supply which
may produce any pool or pools of stagnant water in any alley or gutter;
   (O)   Any article or substance placed upon any street, sidewalk, alley,
gutter, drain or public ground, except such articles as are permitted by
ordinance of the city, in such manner as to obstruct such passageway;
   (P)   The act of throwing any glass, tin, queen’s ware, crockery or other
rubbish into or upon the sidewalks, streets, alleys, public thoroughfares,
commons, drains or gutters;
   (Q)   Any unwholesome food or adulterated medicine, and all cattle, horse or
hog pens, stables or enclosed areas in which any cattle, horses or hogs may be
kept or confined which may from use have become offensive;
   (R)   Any granaries, barns, elevators or other premises where rats breed or
are harbored;
   (S)   Any nauseous, foul or putrid liquids, or substances likely to be
nauseous, foul, offensive or putrid, discharged, placed, thrown or conducted
into or upon any street, alley, public ground or common;
   (T)   The act of wrongfully casting, throwing or depositing any filth,
substance or thing into any private or public well or cistern;
   (U)   The act of erecting or maintaining buildings or structures with roofs
or eaves projecting beyond the property line or shedding water upon any
property other than that belonging to the owner of such structure or building;
and
   (V)   Any other act or thing done or suffered within the city limits, which
may interfere with the enjoyment by any member of the city, or any person who
may be deprived of his or her right to be free from foul, noxious or offensive
or unpleasant odors or vapors, and to breathe fresh air and to be free from the
sight of foul or offensive objects and substances.
(2012 Code, § 34-68)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18  ABATEMENT.
   If any nuisance described in this subchapter is not abated by the owner of
the premises or the person causing the nuisance within ten days after notice to
do so, the city may do such work as is necessary to abate the nuisance, or
cause the work to be done, pay for the work, and charge the expenses in doing
or having such work done, or improvements made, to the owner of the property,
whereupon such charge shall be a personal liability of such owner to the city.
Such notice may be in writing served upon such owner in person by an officer or
employee of the city, or may be by letter sent by certified or registered mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to such owner at his or her post office
address; or if personal service may not be had, or the owner’s address is not
known, notice may be given by publishing a brief summary of such order at least
twice in ten consecutive days in some newspaper of general circulation in the
city, addressed “Sanitary Improvements, To Whom It May Concern”; and such
publication shall be deemed sufficient notice.
(2012 Code, § 34-69)
Statutory reference:
   Powers as to unwholesome matter, see Tex. Health and Safety Code Ch. 342
WEEDS, GRASS, BRUSH AND RUBBISH
§ 91.30  DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant or any person in charge
of any premises in the city to allow weeds, grass or brush to grow upon the
premises, or trash or rubbish to accumulate upon such premises to such an
extent as is reasonably calculated to create a fire hazard or to become
injurious to the health of the citizens of the city; and either condition is
declared to constitute a public nuisance.
(2012 Code, § 34-91)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31  DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS AND PARKWAYS CLEAN.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, lessee, occupant or person in charge of
premises with a sidewalk or abutting parkway to keep the sidewalk or parkway
free and clear of weeds, grass, brush, trash or rubbish. The growth or
accumulation upon such a sidewalk or parkway of weeds, grass, brush, trash or
rubbish to such an extent as is reasonably calculated to create a fire hazard
or to become injurious to the health of the citizens of the city is declared to
constitute a public nuisance.
(2012 Code, § 34-92)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32  NOTICE OF FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   If the owner, lessee, occupant or person in charge of premises within
the city shall fail to comply with the provisions of §§
91.30 or
91.31 of this chapter, the city shall give notice personally to the owner of
the premises in writing, informing him or her of his or her duty to comply with
such requirements of §§
91.30 or
91.31 of this chapter, as may be necessary and appropriate in the particular
case.
   (B)   (1)   Such notice may be given by letter, mailed by certified or
registered mail, return receipt requested, to such owner at his or her post
office address, or by publication in a paper of general circulation in the city
two times within ten consecutive days if personal service may not be had or the
owner’s address is not known.
      (2)   Such notice shall inform the owner of his or her right to appeal to
the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 34-93)
§ 91.33  APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL; PROCEDURE; HEARING.
   (A)   If the owner refuses to comply with the regulations of §§
91.30 or
91.31 of this chapter, he or she shall have ten days after service of such
notice to appeal to the City Council by filing with the City Secretary notice
of appeal and specifying the grounds for appeal. The City Secretary shall, at
the next meeting of the Council, transmit to the Council the findings of the
city, a true copy of the notice to the owner, a certification of its service on
the owner and the notice of appeal as filed by the owner. An appeal shall stay
all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from until a hearing on
the appeal is had by the Council.
(2012 Code, § 34-94)
   (B)   The City Council shall hear evidence and determine whether or not the
growth of weeds, grass or brush, or the accumulation of rubbish or trash, or
both, is sufficient to constitute a nuisance; and, if it so finds, it may
declare that the condition on the property constitutes a public nuisance, and
shall order the nuisance removed by the owner within ten days from the date
such notice is given.
(2012 Code, § 34-95)
§ 91.34  ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   (1)   If an owner fails or refuses to comply with the provisions of
this subchapter on the notice given by the city and fails or refuses to
exercise his or her right of appeal from the city’s decision within the time
prescribed, or if he or she fails or refuses to comply with the order of the
City Council on appeal, such nuisance shall be abated by the city; and the
expense incurred, which shall include salary and wages and reasonable charge
for machinery, tools and vehicles used in abating such nuisance, shall be a
personal charge against the owner of such premises and shall be assessed as a
lien against the property from which the nuisance was abated, and shall be due
and payable to the city’s Tax Collector.
      (2)   Failure to pay the charge when due shall cause the charge to bear
interest from the date of payment by the city at the maximum rate allowed by
law.
      (3)   The lien shall be obtained as provided in Tex. Health and Safety
Code § 342.007.
   (B)   If the owner commits another violation of the same kind or nature that
poses a danger to the public health and safety on or before the first
anniversary of the date of the notice, the municipality without further notice
may correct the violation at the owner expense and assess the expense against
the property. If a violation covered by a notice under this section occurs
within the one-year period and the city has not been informed in writing by the
owner of an ownership change, then the city without further notice may take
action permitted by this section.
(2012 Code, § 34-96)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Failure of the owner or occupant to cut weeds, grass or brush, or to
remove trash or rubbish, when notified to do so by the city under the
provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.18 of this chapter, shall be punished by a fine; and each day that such
nuisance shall continue after the time for abatement as set out in §§
91.15 through
91.18 of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(2012 Code, § 34-97)
CHAPTER 92:  JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Notice by Chief of Police of public nuisance
   
92.03   Order by Municipal Judge
   
92.04   Duty of owner or occupant of premises
   
92.05   Notice to state’s Department  of Transportation
   
92.06   Vehicles not to be made operable
   
92.07   Inapplicability
   
92.08   Administration
   
92.09   Removal of vehicles
   
92.10   Sale or disposal of vehicles
   
92.11   Conflict
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this chapter shall be defined as provided in Tex.
Transportation Code §§ 683.001 and 683.071.
(2012 Code, § 84-246)
§ 92.02  NOTICE BY CHIEF OF POLICE OF PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the Chief of Police
that a public nuisance upon private property exists in the city in violation of
Tex. Transportation Code § 683.073, the Chief of Police shall give or cause to
be given, in writing, a ten-day notice, stating the nature of the public
nuisance and that it must be removed and abated within ten days after the date
on which the notice was mailed, and that a request for a hearing must be made
before the expiration of the ten-day period.
      (2)   The notice shall be mailed by certified mail with a five-day return
requested, to the last known registered owner of the nuisance, each lien holder
of record of the nuisance and the owner or occupant of the property on which
the public nuisance is located.
      (3)   If the notice is returned undelivered by the United States Postal
Service, official action to abate the public nuisance shall be continued to a
date not less than 11 days from the date of the return.
   (B)   Whenever it is brought to the attention of the Chief of Police that a
public nuisance upon public property exists in the city in violation of Tex.
Transportation Code § 683.073, the Chief of Police shall cause to be given a
notice, setting out the nature of the public nuisance on public property or on
a public right-of-way, that the nuisance must be removed and abated within ten
days after the date on which the notice was mailed, and that a request for a
hearing must be made before the expiration of the ten-day period. The notice
shall be mailed by certified mail, with a five-day return requested, to the
last known registered owner of the nuisance, each lien holder of record of the
nuisance and the owner or occupant of the public premises or the owner or
occupant of the property adjacent to the public right-of-way upon which the
public nuisance exists. If the post office address of the last known registered
owner of the vehicle is unknown, notice to that owner may be placed on the
vehicle; or, if the last known registered owner is physically located, the
notice may be hand delivered. If any notice is returned undeliverable by the
United States Postal Service, official action to abate the public nuisance
shall be continued to a date not less than 11 days after the return.
   (C)   A public hearing shall be had prior to the removal of the vehicle or
part as a public nuisance and shall be held before the Municipal Judge when the
hearing is requested by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which the
vehicle is located within 11 days after service of notice to abate the
nuisance. Any order requiring the removal of the junked vehicle or part shall
include a description of the vehicle and the correct identification number and
license plate number of the vehicle, if available at the site. Unless otherwise
demonstrated by the owner, it shall be presumed at the hearing that the junked
vehicle is inoperable.
(2012 Code, § 84-247)
§ 92.03  ORDER BY MUNICIPAL JUDGE.
   After the hearing is held by the Municipal Court, if the Municipal Judge
finds that a public nuisance exists, the Municipal Judge shall order the owner
or occupant of the premises on which the public nuisance is located to remove
and abate it within ten days after the order is given.
(2012 Code, § 84-248)
§ 92.04  DUTY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT OF PREMISES.
   (A)   If the owner or occupant of the premises does not request a hearing as
provided in this chapter, it shall be his or her duty to comply with the
provisions of the notice given him or her and to remove and abate the nuisance
within ten days after the notice was mailed.
   (B)   Failure to remove or otherwise abate the nuisance following receipt of
the notice from the Chief of Police, or failure to remove or otherwise abate
the nuisance following the Municipal Judge’s order, constitutes a violation of
this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 84-249)
§ 92.05  NOTICE TO STATE’S DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION.
   Notice shall be given to the state’s Department of Transportation within
five days after the date of removal identifying a junked vehicle or part.
(2012 Code, § 84-250)
§ 92.06  VEHICLES NOT TO BE MADE OPERABLE.
   After a junked vehicle has been removed under the provisions of this
chapter, it shall not be reconstructed or made operable.
(2012 Code, § 84-251)
§ 92.07  INAPPLICABILITY.
   This chapter does not apply to a vehicle or vehicle part that is:
   (A)   Completely enclosed in a building in a lawful manner and is not
visible from the street or other public or private property; or
   (B)   Stored or parked in a lawful manner on private property in connection
with the business of a licensed vehicle dealer or junkyard, or that is an
antique or special interest vehicle stored by a motor vehicle collector on the
collector’s property, if the vehicle or part and the outdoor storage area, if
any, are:
      (1)   Maintained in an orderly manner;
      (2)   Not a health hazard; and
      (3)   Screened from ordinary public view by appropriate means, including
a fence, rapidly growing trees or shrubbery.
(2012 Code, § 84-252)
§ 92.08  ADMINISTRATION.
   The administration of this chapter shall be by regularly salaried, full-time
employees of the city; except that, the removal of vehicles or parts from
property may be by any other duly authorized person. A person authorized by
this chapter to administer its procedures may enter upon private property for
the purposes specified in this chapter and to examine a junked vehicle or
vehicle part, obtain information as to the identity of the junked vehicle or
vehicle part and/or remove or cause the removal of a junked vehicle or vehicle
part that constitutes a nuisance.
(2012 Code, § 84-253)
§ 92.09  REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   Not less than 11 days after notice has been mailed to the owner or occupant
of the premises on which a junked vehicle is located if a hearing is not
requested, or if a hearing is requested, within ten days after an order
requiring the abatement and removal of the junked vehicle has been served upon
or delivered to the owner or occupant of the premises on which the vehicle is
located, the Chief of Police may, if the nuisance has not been abated, remove
or cause to be removed the nuisance to a suitable city storage area designated
by the City Council. The junked vehicle shall be stored in that storage area
for a period of not less than ten days, during which period any person owning
or claiming any right, title or interest in it shall be entitled to take
possession of it by the payment to the city of the actual cost to the city of
abating the nuisance. The Municipal Judge may also require of the claimant a
bond not to exceed $500, conditioned that the claimant will not use that
vehicle to create another nuisance in the city.
(2012 Code, § 84-254)
§ 92.10  SALE OR DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   When any junked vehicle has remained in a storage area for at least
ten days, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to dispose of it by
removal to a scrap yard or by sale to a motor vehicle demolisher for the
highest bid or offer received or to remove it to any suitable site for
processing as scrap or salvage.
   (B)   Out of the proceeds of sale, the Chief of Police shall pay all costs
of abatement and storage; and the balance, if any, shall be paid to the owner
or lien holder.
   (C)   If there is no bid or offer for the junked vehicle, the Chief of
Police may dispose of it by causing it to be demolished or removed to a place
provided by the city, or by permitting it to be removed by a motor vehicle
demolisher who is willing to do so for the benefit of the salvage.
(2012 Code, § 84-255)
§ 92.11  CONFLICT.
   It is not intended by this chapter to make provisions pertaining to
abandoned motor vehicles as that term is defined by the Abandoned Motor Vehicle
Act (Tex. Transportation Code § 683.002), nor to be in conflict with §
73.08 of this code of ordinances.
(2012 Code, § 84-256)
CHAPTER 93:  SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Smoking prohibited in public places
   
93.03   Signs and receptacles
   
93.04   Reporting violations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAR. Any establishment which derives at least 51% of its annual revenues
from the sale of alcoholic beverages.
   CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL(S). The department(s) or individual(s) designated
by the Mayor and City Council to enforce and administer this chapter.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by any employer for direct or indirect
monetary wages, commissions or profit, or is in a position that would lead one
to believe that such person is so employed.
   ENCLOSED. Closed in by a roof and walls with appropriate openings for
ingress and egress.
   INDEPENDENTLY VENTILATED. The heating, ventilation and air conditioning
system does not allow for the mixing of air.
   OUTDOORS. Any area that is not enclosed.
   PRIVATE CLUB. Any building, premises or portion thereof which is wholly
owned or leased from other than a governmental entity by a non-profit
corporation organized under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3), being 26 U.S.C. § 501(c)(3), as
amended.
   PRIVATE OFFICE. An individual’s office from which the public is not barred,
but to which the public goes primarily by invitation or appointment. It is an
office in which there are no employees regularly in residence.
   PUBLIC PLACE.
      (1)   Any enclosed area that is open to or is used by the general public,
or that is a place of employment and includes, but is not limited to: retail
stores; grocery stores; offices; professional, commercial or financial
establishments; food establishments; movie theaters; public and private
institutions of education; health care facilities; nursing and convalescent
homes; child and adult day care facilities; residential treatment facilities;
buildings owned or occupied by political subdivisions; and public restrooms.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, a PUBLIC PLACE does not include a
private residence, private club, bar, tobacco shop, hotel and motel guest rooms
that are designated by management as smoking rooms, outdoors, private offices
or an independently ventilated area specifically designated for employee
smoking. Any PUBLIC PLACES regulated by other statutes or other governmental
administrative rules which conflict with or which preempt local regulation are
exempt from the provisions hereof to the extent of such conflict or preemption.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. The carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar or
cigarette of any kind, or any other lighted smoking material, equipment or
device, and the lighting, emitting or exhaling the smoke of a pipe, cigar or
cigarette of any kind.
   TOBACCO SHOP. Any commercial establishment that derives 51% of its annual
gross receipts from the sale of tobacco and tobacco accessories.
(2012 Code, § 34-100)
§ 93.02  SMOKING PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking is hereby prohibited in all public places within the city limits.
(2012 Code, § 34-101)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03  SIGNS AND RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   The owner or other person having authority to manage and/or control
any area designated as a public place, pursuant to this chapter, shall post or
cause to be posted and visibly displayed, and shall maintain “No Smoking” signs
in a form approved by the Code Enforcement Official, in conspicuous locations
within such public place. Such signs shall clearly and conspicuously recite the
phrase “No Smoking by Order of the City of Clifton” in the English and Spanish
language and/or use the international no-smoking symbol.
   (B)   The owner or other person having authority to manage and/or control
any area designated as a public place pursuant to this chapter shall cause to
be placed a receptacle for smoking materials which is approved by the Fire
Chief of the city outdoors near each entrance to all public places, as defined
herein.
(2012 Code, § 34-102)
§ 93.04  REPORTING VIOLATIONS.
   This chapter does not require the owner, operator, employer, manager or any
employee to report a violation of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 34-103)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation who violates any provision of
this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be punished by
a fine.
(2012 Code, § 34-104)
CHAPTER 94:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Discharge or sale of fireworks
   
94.02   Burning trash, leaves and refuse prohibited
   
94.03   Wrecking yards, junk yards and post yards
   
94.04   False fire alarms
   
94.05   Interference with firefighters or other officials proceeding to fire
   
94.06   Interference with fire apparatus and equipment
   
94.07   Arson reward
Fire Marshal
   
94.20   Office created
   
94.21   Appointment
   
94.22   Qualifications; removal
   
94.23   Duty to investigate fires
   
94.24   Taking testimony
   
94.25   Summoning witnesses; document production
   
94.26   Investigations may be private; sequestering witnesses
   
94.27   Duty when evidence indicates crime in connection with fire
   
94.28   Misconduct of witnesses summoned
   
94.29   Examination and correction of dangerous conditions
   
94.30   Locations of fires
   
94.31   Records to be kept
   
94.32   Monthly reports to state’s Fire Marshal
Gasoline and Other Volatile Liquids
   
94.45   Storage tanks; permit
   
94.46   Delivery vehicles
   
94.47   Metal dispensing containers required at filling stations
   
94.48   Smoking prohibited in rooms where kept
Statutory reference:
   Arson, see Tex. Penal Code § 28.02
   Commission on fire protection, see Tex. Government Code §§ 419.001 et seq.
   County fire protection, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 352.001 et seq.
   Disabling fire exit alarms, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 793.001 et
seq.
   Fire escapes, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 791.001 et seq.
   Flammable liquids, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 753.001 et seq.
   Hazardous substances, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 501.001 et seq.
   Liquefied petroleum gas, see Tex. Natural Resources Code §§ 113.001 et seq.
   Motor vehicle liability insurance coverage for firefighters, see Tex. Local
Government Code § 142.006
   Municipal fire protection, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 342.001 et seq.
   Smoke detectors in hotels, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 792.001 et
seq.
   Smoke detectors in residential tenancies, see Tex. Property Code §§ 92.006,
92.251 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01  DISCHARGE OR SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall cast, throw or fire any squib, rocket, cracker,
torpedo, grenade, cap, cartridge or other combustible fireworks of any kind in
the city; nor shall any person exhibit or have in his or her possession with
intent to give away or sell or offer for sale or sell within the city any
squib, rocket, cracker, torpedo, grenade or other combustible fireworks of any
kind.
      (2)   However, this section shall not apply to the sale of any such
articles by wholesalers to each other or to the sale of any such articles at
wholesale to merchants conducting business entirely without the city, or to the
sale by wholesalers for private or public demonstrations as provided for in
this section.
   (B)   (1)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to the sale,
storage or use of railroad track torpedoes or other signaling devices used by
railroads, nor to the sale, storage or use of flashlight composition by
photographers or dealers in photographic supplies, or prevent any public or
private demonstration or display of fireworks conducted under proper police
supervision after application made and a permit issued by the City Council for
such demonstration.
      (2)   Such permit shall not be granted unless such demonstration or
display shall be of such a character, and so located, discharged or fired, as
in the opinion of the City Council, after proper inspection, shall not be
hazardous to property or endanger any person.
(2012 Code, § 38-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02  BURNING OF TRASH, LEAVES, REFUSE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to light, start or ignite any
trash fire or burn any trash, leaves, rubbish, refuse or other things outside
any house or building within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Exceptions:
      (1)   An organization sponsoring a specific event or activity within the
city must appear before the City Council prior to the event to request a
temporary, one-time exception to the prohibition of burning of trash, leaves
and refuse within the city limits. The Council shall consider the request and
may grant the temporary exception during the event or activity; and
      (2)   Not applicable to outside grilling or the burning of wood in a
fireplace designed/designated to heat an outside patio/sitting/recreational
area.
(2012 Code, § 38-2)  (Ord. 140802, passed 8-12-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03  WRECKING YARDS, JUNK YARDS AND POST YARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, maintain or open,
within the city limits:
      (1)   Any wrecking yard, meaning any land area for keeping wrecked
automobiles, trucks or other self-propelled vehicles, but not applying to
storage in an enclosed building;
      (2)   Any parts yard, meaning any land area for keeping self-propelled
wrecked vehicles and/or farm implements that are junk for parts, but not
applying to storage in an enclosed building;
      (3)   Any junkyards, meaning any land area for keeping worthless articles
of any kind for a disposal place or for resale, but not applying to storage in
an enclosed building; and/or
      (4)   Any post yard, meaning any land area for keeping cedar or oak or
other wood posts for either storage or sale commercially.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this section is intended to conflict with the
provisions of this code regulating the construction or alteration of buildings
within the fire limits, but it is intended to prohibit the type of storage
described in this section, because of the fire hazard such storage presents to
contiguous property.
(2012 Code, § 38-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.04  FALSE FIRE ALARMS.
   No person shall knowingly give or make a false alarm of a fire within the
corporate limits of the city.
(2012 Code, § 38-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   False alarm or report, see Tex. Penal Code § 42.06
§ 94.05  INTERFERENCE WITH FIREFIGHTERS OR OTHER OFFICIALS PROCEEDING TO FIRE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or in any manner
obstruct any firefighter or other city official proceeding to the scene or
reported scene of any fire or to make it difficult or dangerous for any
firefighter or other city official to proceed to the scene of a fire.
(2012 Code, § 38-5)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.06  INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE APPARATUS AND EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, destroy, injure or molest any
fire hose, hose reel, ladder, fire or chemical engine or other fire apparatus
or equipment belonging to the city or to injure or deface any building or
structure used to house or protect such apparatus and equipment or to interfere
or meddle with any fire plug or hydrant within the city.
(2012 Code, § 38-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.07  ARSON REWARD.
   (A)   The city offers a reward in the amount set by the Council to anyone
who secures and furnishes information necessary to and which results in arrest
and conviction of any person who commits the crime of arson within the
corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   This reward is a standing offer and shall be paid out of the General
Fund of the city.
(2012 Code, § 38-7)
FIRE MARSHAL
§ 94.20  OFFICE CREATED.
   The office of Fire Marshal is created. Such office shall be independent of
other city departments, with the Fire Marshal reporting directly to the
Council.
(2012 Code, § 38-41)
§ 94.21  APPOINTMENT.
   The office of Fire Marshal shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, by
and with the consent of the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 38-42)
§ 94.22  QUALIFICATIONS; REMOVAL.
   The Fire Marshal shall be properly qualified for the duties of his or her
office and shall be removed only for cause.
(2012 Code, § 38-43)
§ 94.23  DUTY TO INVESTIGATE FIRES.
   The Fire Marshal shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of
every fire occurring within the city by which property has been destroyed or
damaged, and shall especially make investigation as to whether such fire was
the result of carelessness or design. Such investigation shall be begun within
24 hours, not including Sunday, of the occurrence of such fire.
(2012 Code, § 38-44)
§ 94.24  TAKING TESTIMONY.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal, when, in his or her opinion, further investigation
is necessary, shall take or cause to be taken the testimony, on oath, of all
persons supposed to be cognizant of any facts or to have means of knowledge in
relation to the matter under investigation, and shall cause the testimony to be
reduced to writing.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal is authorized and empowered to administer oaths and
affirmations to any person appearing as witnesses before him or her.
(2012 Code, § 38-45)
§ 94.25  SUMMONING WITNESSES; DOCUMENT PRODUCTION.
   The Fire Marshal shall have the power to summon witnesses before him or her
to testify in relation to any matter which is, by the provisions of this
subchapter, a subject of inquiry and investigation, and may require the
production of any book, paper or pertinent document.
(2012 Code, § 38-46)
§ 94.26  INVESTIGATIONS MAY BE PRIVATE; SEQUESTERING WITNESSES.
   All investigations held by or under the direction of the Fire Marshal may,
in his or her discretion, be private; and persons other than those required to
be present may be excluded from the place where such investigation is held; and
witnesses may be kept separate and apart from each other and not allowed to
communicate with each other until they have been examined.
(2012 Code, § 38-47)
§ 94.27  DUTY WHEN EVIDENCE INDICATES CRIME IN CONNECTION WITH FIRE.
   If the Fire Marshal is of the opinion that there is evidence sufficient to
charge any person with the crime of arson, or with the attempt to commit the
crime of arson, or of conspiracy to defraud, or criminal conduct in connection
with any fire, he or she shall cause such person to be lawfully arrested and
charged with such offense or either of them, and shall furnish to the proper
prosecuting attorney all such evidence, together with the names of witnesses
and all of the information obtained by him or her, including a copy of all
pertinent and material testimony taken in the case.
(2012 Code, § 38-48)
§ 94.28  MISCONDUCT OF WITNESSES SUMMONED.
   Any witness who refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear or testify, or
who disobeys any lawful order of the Fire Marshal, or who fails or refuses to
produce any book, paper or document touching any matter under examination, or
who is guilty of any contemptuous conduct during any of the proceedings of the
Fire Marshal in the matter of an investigation or inquiry authorized by this
subchapter, after being summoned to give testimony in relation to any matter
under investigation, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor; and it shall be
the duty of the Fire Marshal to cause all such offenders to be prosecuted.
(2012 Code, § 38-49)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.29  EXAMINATION AND CORRECTION OF DANGEROUS CONDITIONS.
   (A)   On the complaint of any person, the Fire Marshal, at any reasonable
time, is entitled to enter any building or premises in the city.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal shall enter monthly or more often and is entitled, at
any time, to enter, any mercantile, manufacturing or public building, place of
amusement or place where public gatherings are held, or any premises belonging
to such a building or place, and make a thorough examination.
   (C)   The Fire Marshal shall order the removal of a building or structure or
other remedial action if he or she finds that:
      (1)   The building or other structure, because of lack of repair, age,
dilapidated condition or other reason, is susceptible to fire and is so located
or occupied that fire would endanger persons or property in the building or
structure;
      (2)   A dangerous condition is created by:
         (a)   An improper arrangement of stoves, ranges, furnaces or other
heating appliances, including chimneys, flues and pipes with which they are
connected, or by their lighting systems or devices; or
         (b)   The manner of storage of explosives, compounds, petroleum,
gasoline, kerosene, dangerous chemicals, vegetable products, ashes or
combustible, flammable or refuse materials.
      (3)   Any other condition exists that is dangerous or is liable to cause
or promote fire or create danger for firefighters, occupants or other buildings
or structures.
   (D)   (1)   The occupant or owner of the building or premises shall
immediately comply with an order made by the Fire Marshal under this section.
      (2)   The Fire Marshal may, if necessary, apply to a court of competent
jurisdiction for writs or orders necessary to enforce this section; and the
court may grant appropriate relief.
      (3)   The Fire Marshal is not required to give a bond.
   (E)   (1)   If the owner or occupant of a building or structure deems
himself or herself aggrieved by an order under this section, he or she may,
within five days, appeal to the Mayor, who shall investigate the cause of the
complaint; and, unless by his or her authority the order is revoked, such order
shall remain in force and be forthwith complied with by the owner or occupant.
      (2)   Any owner or occupant who fails to comply with such notice shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(2012 Code, § 38-50)
Statutory reference:
   Right of state’s Fire Marshal to examine buildings and premises, see Tex.
Government Code § 417.008
§ 94.30  LOCATIONS OF FIRES.
   The Fire Marshal at any time may enter a building or premises at which a
fire is in progress or has occurred and is under control of law enforcement or
fire service officials to investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of
the fire. If control of the building or premises has been relinquished, entry
must be in compliance with search and seizure law and applicable federal law.
(2012 Code, § 38-51)
Statutory reference:
   Similar power of state’s Fire Marshal, see Tex. Government Code § 417.007(b)
§ 94.31  RECORDS TO BE KEPT.
   The Fire Marshal shall keep in his or her office a record of all fires,
together with all facts, statistics and circumstances, including the origin of
the fires and the amount of loss, which may be determined by the investigation
required by this subchapter.
(2012 Code, § 38-52)
§ 94.32  MONTHLY REPORTS TO STATE’S FIRE MARSHAL.
   At the end of each month, the Fire Marshal shall report to the state’s Fire
Marshal all existing hazardous conditions, together with a separate report on
each fire in the city during the month.
(2012 Code, § 38-53)
GASOLINE AND OTHER VOLATILE LIQUIDS
§ 94.45  STORAGE TANKS; PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall build or set up any tank, either at a filling station
or at a wholesale station, for the storage or sale of gasoline or other
volatiles without first having obtained a permit from the City Council upon the
approval of the Fire Marshal and Building Official as to the place and manner
of construction.
(2012 Code, § 38-86)
   (B)   All tanks for the storage of gasoline and other volatiles at filling
stations and other establishments shall be installed as provided by state laws
and regulations.
(2012 Code, § 38-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.46  DELIVERY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Trucks used for transporting gasoline or other volatiles shall have
tanks and equipment that are in compliance with state laws and regulations and
that bear the label of approval of the National Fire Protection Association or
the American Insurance Association, as applicable.
(2012 Code, § 38-88)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver or cause to be
delivered from any truck or vehicle of any kind or character gasoline in
quantities of more than five gallons to any residence or building, or within
100 feet of any residence or building, within the city limits, unless the
gasoline is transferred from the trucks or vehicles in which the gasoline is
transported to an underground tank or to tanks regularly placed on motor
vehicles as regular equipment on such vehicles to be used for such operation.
(2012 Code, § 38-89) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Mobile service units, see Tex. Health and Safety Code § 753.002
§ 94.47  METAL DISPENSING CONTAINERS REQUIRED AT FILLING STATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or manager of any service station,
filling station or dispensing station, or the agents, employees and servants of
such owner or manager, to sell and dispense or offer to sell and dispense
gasoline or any other flammable liquids having a flash point below 200°F in any
type of container other than those that are state or federally approved.
(2012 Code, § 38-90)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.48  SMOKING PROHIBITED IN ROOMS WHERE KEPT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in any room in which gasoline
or other volatiles are kept or for the manager or other person in charge of any
building in which gasoline or other volatiles are kept to allow smoking in such
rooms, and notices to that effect shall be prominently displayed.
(2012 Code, § 38-91)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 95:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Library
   
95.01   Fines and charges
Park and Recreational Facilities
   
95.15   Vehicle travel prohibited
   
95.16   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
95.17   Tennis courts
   
95.18   Overnight camping
   
95.19   Exemptions
   
95.20   Certain parks and facilities; hours of use and regulations; fees
Statutory reference:
   Lease of land from state’s Parks and Wildlife Department, see Tex. Parks and
Wildlife Code § 13.006
   Local boating regulations, see Tex. Parks and Wildlife Code § 31.092
   Local parks and other recreational and cultural resources, see Tex. Local
Government Code Chs. 315 and 331 et seq.
LIBRARY
§ 95.01  FINES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   This section shall be entitled the “Nellie Pederson Public Fine, Fee,
Charge and Collection Ordinance”. Materials borrowed from the library are city
property. When a person signs up for a library card, he or she is signing a
contract that holds him or her responsible for return of library materials he
or she or his or her children borrow. The city works to ensure that materials
are returned in a timely manner to allow all citizens access to these
resources.
   (B)   The fines, fees and charges to be charged and collected shall be as
follows.
      (1)   Fines. The fine is $0.20 per day per material borrowed, with a
maximum being $5 per material. There is a one-day grace period for all
materials.
      (2)   Charges. The charge for lost items include the maximum fine, plus
the replacement cost of the material (books, audio CDs or DVDs) borrowed.
      (3)   Fees.
         (a)   The initial card for county residents is free of charge, if card
is lost there is a $3 fee to replace a lost card. Fee for printing text is
$0.15 per page. Fax fee is $2 for first page and a $1 per page thereafter.
         (b)   Fees are subject to change with City Council’s approval.
      (4)   Collection. The library may call, text, e-mail or mail notices of
past due materials. A final notice will be mailed 30 days after material is
due. The overdue process may be resolved by customer action at any point.
      (5)   Forfeiture. All library privileges will be forfeited until fine,
charges or fees have been paid.
(Ord. 140801, passed 8-12-2014)
PARK AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES
§ 95.15  VEHICLE TRAVEL PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle, motor
vehicle or motorcycle (as defined in Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201) upon
any portion of the city parks, except those designated as roadways, parking
lots or for restricted use.
   (B)   Restricted use areas shall be those areas defined and approved by the
City Council with appropriate signs erected stating their restricted use.
(2012 Code, § 64-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.16  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into or have in his or
her possession any type of alcoholic beverages within those areas of the city
park system known as Dahl Park, Olsen Park or the playground area adjoining FM
219 (E. 5th Street) on the north side of the roadway.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into or have in his or
her possession any type of alcoholic beverage within a 100-yard radius of the
football field or any baseball field located within a city park.
(2012 Code, § 64-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.17  TENNIS COURTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring onto a tennis court any type of
object which may damage or destroy the playing surface by riding or rolling the
object on the playing surface.
(2012 Code, § 64-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.18  OVERNIGHT CAMPING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to camp or remain overnight within a city park
without a permit issued by the city.
   (B)   The permit required by division (A) above shall contain the name,
address, type of vehicle and expected length of stay by those asking for the
permit.
   (C)   Fees for permits shall be as established by the Council.
   (D)   Only recreational vehicles or camping trailers with towed vehicles may
be parked overnight in city parks, and then only in designated RV spots. No RV
or trailer may be parked in city parks for a period exceeding seven consecutive
days or 14 days in any three-month calendar period unless given written
permission by the City Administrator.
   (E)   Camping in other types of vehicles or trailers, in tents or in the
open is prohibited unless a permit has been issued by the city under authority
of divisions (A), (B) or (C) above.
(2012 Code, § 64-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.19  EXEMPTIONS.
   Those persons who have care and control of city parks shall be exempt from §
95.15 of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 64-5)
§ 95.20  CERTAIN PARKS AND FACILITIES; HOURS OF USE AND REGULATIONS; FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Hours of allowed usage at Dahl Park shall be from 6:00 a.m. to
10:00 p.m., seven days a week and 365 days a year. Hours of allowed usage at
the Olsen Park Swimming Pool will be appropriately posted, and the area inside
the fence shall be off limits to public access at all other times.
      (2)   Proper signage shall be procured and installed as soon as is
feasible by the city, informing visitors of park hours and possible penalties
for violations.
      (3)   Upon installation of above-named signs in Dahl Park and Olsen Park,
the hours of usage shall become official and failure to observe said hours of
usage can result in a fine.
(2012 Code, § 64-7)
   (B)   (1)   Olsen Park Pool fees:
Individual admission       $5
Party rental
   <40                  $125
   >40                  $175
Passes
   Single               $65
   Double               $100
   Family (4)           $140
   Extended family membe$25 - more than 4 at base family residence
Senior citizens            $2
Swim lessons               $60 - 2 weeks
Water aerobics             $5
 
      (2)   Other fees:
 
Armory                              $100
Auditorium at civic center          $100
Deposit for civic center and armory $100
Kitchen at civic center             $50
Meeting room at civic center        $50
 
(Ord. 150401, passed 4-14-2015; Ord. 171101, passed - -2017)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
      
113.   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
114.   SOLICITATIONS
      
115.   GARAGE SALES
      
116.   TAXICABS
CHAPTER 110:  ADVERTISING
Section
   
110.01   Scattering or distributing in streets, public buildings and vehicles
   
110.02   Posting on public or private property without permission
Statutory reference:
   Outdoor advertising, see Tex. Transportation Code §§ 391.031 et seq.
   Regulation of signs by municipalities, see Tex. Local Government Code Ch.
216
§ 110.01  SCATTERING OR DISTRIBUTING IN STREETS, PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter or distribute any
advertisements, circulars, handbills, printed or written announcements or
papers of like character upon the streets, sidewalks, alleys, gutters or within
the public buildings or on the public grounds, or in or upon vehicles of any
kind, within the limits of the city; however, non-commercial handbills may be
handed to persons who are willing to accept them.
(2012 Code, § 6-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02  POSTING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   The printing, pasting, sticking or placing of any advertisement, handbill or
placard of any printed, pictured or written matter upon any house, wall,
building, pole, fence or other property, private or public, without the
permission of the owner or person in charge, shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(2012 Code, § 6-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Authorization; authority
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Permit required
   
111.04   Permitting procedures
   
111.05   Application fee; initial permit fee
   
111.06   Permit renewal; fee
   
111.07   Hours of operation
   
111.08   Sale on premises of city buildings, city-owned property
   
111.09   Sale near public or private schools, day care facilities and the like
   
111.10   Sexually-oriented business prohibited
   
111.11   Zoning district regulation
   
111.12   Sale, consumption in restaurants situated within Historic Main Street
District
§ 111.01  AUTHORIZATION; AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Provisions of this chapter relating to regulation of the legal sale
and delivery of alcoholic beverages are effective upon completion of a duly-
held election authorizing legal sales of alcohol within the city limits.
   (B)   As further provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, in the event that any provision of this
chapter is determined to be unenforceable by law, court ruling or is
inapplicable because of the type of alcohol sales approved by the voters, other
provisions shall remain in effect and enforceable.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to limit the city’s right and
responsibility to enforce state laws and local ordinances regarding the illegal
sale, display, use and delivery of alcoholic beverages.
(2012 Code, § 19-70)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions of words, terms and phrases as set forth in Tex. Alcoholic
Beverage Code §§ 1.04 et seq. are hereby adopted and made a part hereof.
(2012 Code, § 19-71)
§ 111.03  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, distill, brew,
import, transport, store for purposes of sale, distribute or sell any alcoholic
beverage within the city unless such person has obtained a city permit, as
applicable (depending upon the requirements under state law relative to the
product to be sold), from the state.
   (B)   The City Council does hereby levy a fee which shall be one-half of the
state fee upon every person as permitted by Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code §§
11.38 and 61.36, unless prohibited by state law. The permit fee shall be paid
in cash, cashier’s check or money order.
   (C)   No manufacturer, general distributor, local distributor or retail
dealer in alcoholic beverages shall operate a business at more than one place
under the same city permit; a separate city permit must be obtained for each
place of business and each wholesale liquor outlet in the city.
   (D)   A city permit issued under this chapter shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises of the permittee.
(2012 Code, § 19-72)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04  PERMITTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, distill, brew,
import, transport, store for purposes of sale, distribute or sell any alcoholic
beverages within the city unless such person has obtained a city permit from
the office of the City Secretary.
   (B)   (1)   Any person wishing to manufacture, distill, brew, import,
transport, store for purposes of sale, distribute or sell any alcoholic
beverage must complete a city permit application and pay the application fee as
set forth in §
111.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   The applicant shall present to the City Secretary a permit or
license duly issued by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Commission, authorizing
such person to manufacture, sell, possess for purpose of sale, import into the
state or transport liquor in the state.
      (3)   A copy of this document shall be attached to the application.
   (C)   The City Secretary shall submit each application to the City Attorney
and the Chief of Police, and to other city department(s) as may from time to
time be designated by the Mayor and City Council to ensure that the application
complies with city codes, ordinances and regulations, and to ensure that the
applicant has paid all city taxes.
   (D)   Following approval by each of the designated city departments, the
application shall be deemed approved and the City Secretary shall issue a city
permit upon payment by the applicant of the initial permit fee as set forth in
§
111.05 of this chapter.
   (E)   City permits shall not be transferable or assignable except with the
written permission and approval of the City Council.
   (F)   (1)   City permits shall expire at the time shown in the state permit
or license presented by the applicant.
      (2)   If the permit sought is issued for a period of time less than one
year, only a proportionate part of the annual fee shall be collected.
      (3)   A fractional part of a month shall be counted as one full month in
calculating the fee.
   (G)   Applications and permits shall be kept on file in the City Secretary’s
office.
(2012 Code, § 19-73)
§ 111.05  APPLICATION FEE; INITIAL PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   An application fee in the amount of $75, or such lesser fee as may be
authorized by law, shall be charged by the City Secretary for accepting any
initial permit application.
   (B)   As set forth above, the city initial permit fee shall be equal to one-
half of the fee required by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Commission of every
person that may be issued any state permit or license for the manufacture,
distilling, brewing, importing, transporting, storing, distributing or sale of
alcoholic beverages unless a different fee is allowed or required by state law.
   (C)   The City Secretary shall issue a receipt for the application fee and
initial permit fee and keep a record of the same in the City Secretary’s
office.
(2012 Code, § 19-74)
§ 111.06  PERMIT RENEWAL; FEE.
   (A)   City permits shall be renewed every two years. All permits shall
terminate at midnight on the day before the anniversary date of the state
permit, and no city permit shall be issued covering a term longer than one
year.
   (B)   Not later than 90 days prior to the renewal date, the permittee shall
provide to the City Secretary, in a form acceptable to the city, a completed
renewal application. The applicant shall present to the City Secretary a
renewal permit or license duly issued by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage
Commission, authorizing such person to manufacture, sell, possess for purpose
of sale, import into the state, or transport liquor in the state. A copy of
this document shall be attached to the application.
   (C)   A permittee who sells an alcoholic beverage without first having paid
the applicable permit renewal fee under this section commits a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine.
   (D)   Subject to the exception contained in Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code §
11.38(d)(3), the city shall require payment of an annual permit renewal fee for
selling alcoholic beverages within the city and, except as limited by Tex.
Alcoholic Beverage Code § 11.38(d)(3), the permit renewal fee shall be equal to
one-half of the state fee required by the state’s Alcoholic Beverage Commission
unless a different fee is allowed or required by state law.
(2012 Code, § 19-75)
§ 111.07  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Except as provided herein, the hours of sales of alcoholic beverages in the
city shall be consistent with provisions of the state’s Alcoholic Beverage
Code.
   (A)   Distinguishing between certain types of retailers. In accordance with
Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code § 109.32(c), the City Council has determined that,
in exercising the authority granted by § 109.32 with regard to the regulation
of the sale of beer and wine, it is in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizens for such regulations to distinguish between
retailers selling beer and wine for on-premises consumption and retailers,
manufacturers or distributors who do not sell beer and wine for on-premises
consumption.
   (B)   Hours of sale under a retail liquor license or permit.
      (1)   A person may sell, offer for sale or deliver liquor between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any day, except:
         (a)   New Year’s Day;
         (b)   Thanksgiving Day;
         (c)   Christmas Day; and
         (d)   Any Sunday.
      (2)   When Christmas Day or New Year’s Day falls on a Sunday, the same
provisions apply to the following Monday.
   (C)   Hours of sale for wholesalers and local distributors to retailers.
      (1)   A wholesaler or a local distributor’s permittee may sell, offer for
sale or deliver liquor to a retailer between 5:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any
day, except:
         (a)   Christmas Day; and
         (b)   Any Sunday.
      (2)   A local distributor’s permittee may not sell, offer for sale or
deliver any liquor on a day which a package store is prohibited from selling
liquor.
   (D)   Hours of sale under a mixed beverage permit. A mixed beverage
permittee may sell and offer for sale mixed beverages in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Between 7:00 a.m. and midnight on any day, except Sunday;
      (2)   Between midnight and 1:00 a.m. and between noon and midnight on
Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sunday only if the service of
food is also provided to the customer.
   (E)   Hours of sale under a beer permit. A person may sell, offer for sale
or deliver beer as follows:
      (1)   Between 7:00 a.m. and midnight on any day, except Sunday;
      (2)   Between midnight and 1:00 a.m. and between noon and midnight on
Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 10:00 a.m. and noon on Sunday if the permittee is
authorized to sell for on- premises consumption and food is also served to the
customer.
   (F)   Sale of beer by distributor’s licensee. In addition to the hours
specified for the sale of beer in division (D) above, the holder of a general,
local or branch distributor’s permit may sell, offer for sale or deliver beer
beginning at 5:00 a.m. on any day, except Sunday.
   (G)   Hours of sale under a wine and beer retailer permit. The hours of sale
and delivery for alcoholic beverages sold under a wine and beer retailer’s
permit or a wine and beer retailer’s off- premises permit are the same as those
prescribed for the sale of beer under this code; except that, no sale shall be
allowed between 2:00 a.m. and noon on Sunday.
(2012 Code, § 19-76)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08  SALE ON PREMISES OF CITY BUILDINGS, CITY-OWNED PROPERTY.
   Except as set forth below, it shall be unlawful for any person to sell an
alcoholic beverage on the premises of any municipal building or city-owned
property, unless either:
   (A)   A special-use permit has been authorized by the City Council; or
   (B)   The sale occurs on municipal property as the City Council may from
time to time specifically exempt from this section; and, provided that, such
sale and consumption complies with applicable laws and local ordinances.
(2012 Code, § 19-77)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09  SALE NEAR PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SCHOOLS, DAY CARE FACILITIES AND THE
LIKE.
   (A)   Sales of alcoholic beverages are further prohibited within:
      (1)   Three hundred feet of a church, public school or public hospital or
a private school having 50 or more regular students or day care/child care
facility having ten or more in its care;
      (2)   One thousand feet of a public school, if the City Council receives
a request from the Board of Trustees of the School District under Tex.
Education Code § 38.007; and/or
      (3)   One thousand feet of a private school if the City Council receives
a request from the governing body of the private school.
   (B)   The measurement of the distance between the place of business where
alcoholic beverages are sold and the church or public hospital shall be along
the property lines of the street fronts and from front door to front door and
in direct line across intersections.
   (C)   The measurement of the distance between the places of business where
alcoholic beverages are sold and the public or private school shall be:
      (1)   In a direct line from the property line of the public or private
school to the property line of the place of business and in a direct line
across intersections; or
      (2)   If the permit holder is located on or above the fifth story of a
multistory building, in a direct line from the property line of the public or
private school to the property line of the place of business, in a direct line
across intersections and vertically up the building at the property line to the
base of the floor on which the permit holder is located.
   (D)   The City Council may allow variances to the regulation(s) under
division (A) above if the Council determines that enforcement of the regulation
(s) in a particular instance is not in the best interest of the public,
constitutes waste or inefficient use of land or other resources, creates an
undue hardship on an applicant for a permit, does not serve its intended
purpose, is not effective or necessary, or for any other reason the Council,
after consideration of the health, safety and welfare of the public and the
equities of the situation, determines is in the best interest of the community.
      (1)   Applications for variances shall be made to the City Secretary. The
application fee of $200 shall be paid at the time the application is made.
      (2)   The request for variance shall first be considered by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, with final approval/denial being made by the City
Council.
(2012 Code, § 19-78)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10  SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   In connection with the city’s regulation of the location of sexually-
oriented businesses, as contained in
Ch. 113 of this code of ordinances and the city’s regulation of the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages, as contained in this chapter:
      (1)   The location of any massage parlor, nude modeling studio or other
sexually-oriented business within any commercial premises in which alcoholic
beverages are being sold, served or consumed is prohibited;
      (2)   No alcoholic beverage may be sold, served or consumed within any
commercial premises occupied by a massage parlor, nude modeling studio or other
sexually oriented business; and
      (3)   Both nudity and semi-nudity are prohibited in any commercial
premises where alcoholic beverages are sold, served or consumed.
   (B)   The term SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS and definitions of terms used in
divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above are as defined in Tex. Local Government Code
§ 243.002 and in
Ch. 113 of this code of ordinances.
(2012 Code, § 19-79)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.11  ZONING DISTRICT REGULATION.
   The on-premises sales and consumption of alcoholic beverages is prohibited
in any zoning district where the on-premises consumption of food and beverages
is not allowed, including, but not limited to, any zoning district classified
as residential.
(2012 Code, § 19-80)
§ 111.12  SALE, CONSUMPTION IN RESTAURANTS SITUATED WITHIN HISTORIC MAIN STREET
DISTRICT.
   (A)   The City Council hereby enacts regulations applicable only to
restaurants situated with the Historic Main Street District, limiting the
application to such restaurants of the distance prohibitions established by §
111.09 of this chapter regarding proximity to churches, schools, day care
centers or child care facilities.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the area constituting the HISTORIC
MAIN STREET DISTRICT is defined as that portion of the Central Business
District that is bordered on the east by Avenue C, on the west by Avenue E, on
the north by Live Oak Street and on the south by West 9th Street.
   (C)   A restaurant which is the holder of a food and beverage certificate
covering a premises situated in the Historic Main Street District is not
subject to the distance prohibitions established by §
111.09 of this chapter; except that, the distance prohibition shall continue to
be applicable to the premises occupied by any church on the date this section
is adopted and continuing so long as that premises continues to be occupied by
that same church and shall be set at 100 feet.
(2012 Code, § 19-81)
CHAPTER 112:  SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Prohibitions
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prohibit the use, possession, sale,
ingestion or smoking of illegal smoking products and ingestion devices
hereinafter defined within the city limits.
(2012 Code, § 19-1)
§ 112.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ILLEGAL SMOKING PRODUCT. Any substance, whether described as tobacco, herbs,
incense, spice or any blend thereof, regardless of whether the substances is
marketed for the purpose of being smoked, which includes anyone or more of the
following chemicals:
      (1)   Salviadivinorum or salvinorum A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
      (2)   2-[lR,3S)-3-hydroxycyciohexyl)-5-(2-methylocatan-2-yl) phenol (also
known as CP47, 497) and homologues;
      (3)   (6aS, 10aS)-9-(hydroxmethyl)-6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)-
6a, 7, 10, 10a-tetra- hydrobenzo [cl chromen-l-ol) (also known as HE-211 or
Dexanabinol);
      (4)   l-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-018);
      (5)   Butyl-3-(1-naphthoyl{'}'} indole (also known as JWH-073);
      (6)   l-Pentyl-3-(4-methoxynaphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-081);
      (7)   Cannabicyclohexanol; and
      (8)   HU-210.
   INGESTION DEVICE. Equipment, a product or material that is used or intended
for use in ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing an illegal smoking
product into the human body, including:
      (1)   A metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipe
with or without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head or punctured metal
bowl;
      (2)   A water pipe;
      (3)   A carburetion tube or device;
      (4)   A smoking or carburetion mask;
      (5)   A chamber pipe;
      (6)   A carburetor pipe;
      (7)   An electric pipe;
      (8)   An air-driven pipe;
      (9)   A chillum;
      (10)   Vaping devices;
      (11)   A bong; or
      (12)   An ice pipe or chiller.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, wholesaler, retailer or any
licensed or unlicensed business.
(2012 Code, § 19-1)
§ 112.03  PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess, purchase, barter,
give, publicly display, sell or offer for sale any illegal smoking product.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or possess with intent to
use an ingestion device to inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into
the human body an illegal smoking product.
   (C)   It shall be a defense to a violation of this chapter that any act
described in this chapter is under and pursuant to the direction or
prescription of a licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct or
prescribe such act.
(2012 Code, § 19-1)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions or terms of
this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of $2,000 for
each offense.
(2012 Code, § 19-1)
CHAPTER 113:  SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Purpose, intent and findings
   
113.03   Classification
   
113.04   Location restricted; exemptions
   
113.05   Nude model studios
   
113.06   Escort agencies
   
113.07   Adult theaters and adult motion picture theaters
   
113.08   Adult hotels
   
113.09   Exhibition of sexually-explicit films or videos
   
113.10   Defenses to prosecutions
Licensing Provisions
   
113.25   License required
   
113.26   Application
   
113.27   Issuance; grounds for denial
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically-, electrically- or
mechanically-controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which as
one of its principal business purposes offers for sale or rental for any form
of consideration any one or more of the following: books, magazines,
periodicals or other printed matter; or photographs, films, motion pictures,
video cassettes or video reproductions, slides or other visual representations
which depict or describe specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical area.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which offers
accommodations to the public for any form of consideration; provides patrons
with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures, video
cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are characterized
by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way which
advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic reproductions;
or offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than ten
hours; or allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any of the following: the opening or commencement of any
sexually-oriented business as a new business; the conversion of an existing
business, whether or not a sexually-oriented business, to any sexually-oriented
business; the addition of any sexually-oriented business to any other existing
sexually-oriented business; or the relocation of any sexually-oriented
business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY. The appearance of a human, bare buttock, anus,
male genitals, female genitals or female breast; or a state of dress which
fails to opaquely cover a human buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals
or areola of the female breast.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. A single-family, duplex, townhouse, multiple-family or
mobile home zoning district.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. A single-family, duplex, multiple-family or mobile home
park, mobile home subdivision and campground use.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areolas of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration physical
contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons of the opposite
sex or activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Any of the following: the fondling or other
erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female
breasts; sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy; masturbation, actual or simulated; or
excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the activities set
forth herein.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor area occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor area exists
on effective date of the ordinance from which this chapter derived.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. The sale,
lease or sublease of the business, the transfer of securities which constitute
a controlling interest in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar
means or the establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal device which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
(2012 Code, § 19-31)
§ 113.02  PURPOSE, INTENT AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually-oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent concentration of sexually-oriented businesses within the city. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually-oriented materials, Similarly, it is not the intent, nor
effect, of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their
intended market.
   (B)   It is the intent of the City Council that the location regulations of
this chapter are promulgated pursuant to Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 243 (§§
243.001 et seq.), as they apply to nude model studios and sexual encounter
centers only. It is the intent of the City Council that all other provisions of
this chapter are promulgated pursuant to the City Charter and law.
   (C)   The City Council has received substantial evidence concerning the
association of negative secondary effects with sexually-oriented businesses in
the cases of City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986);
Young v. American Mini Theatres, 427 U.S. 50 (1976); and Barnes v. Glen
Theatre, Inc. 501 U.S. 560 (1991); and on studies in other communities
including, but not limited to: Phoenix, Arizona; Tucson, Arizona; Amarillo,
Texas; Austin, Texas; Beaumont, Texas; Houston, Texas; and Seattle, Washington.
(2012 Code, § 19-32)
§ 113.03  CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually-oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(2012 Code, § 19-34)
§ 113.04  LOCATION RESTRICTED; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates or causes to
be operated a sexually- oriented business within 500 feet of:
         (a)   A church;
         (b)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
         (c)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in this chapter;
         (d)   A public park adjacent to a residential district as defined in
this chapter; and
         (e)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as
defined in this chapter.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually-oriented business within 500 feet of another sexually-
oriented business.
      (3)   A person commits an offense if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually-oriented
business in the same building, structure or portion thereof, or the increase of
floor area of any sexually-oriented business in any building, structure or
portion thereof containing another sexually-oriented business.
      (4)   For the purposes of division (A)(1) above, measurement shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects
from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the
premises where a sexually-oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a church or public or private elementary or
secondary school or to the nearest boundary of an affected public park,
residential district or residential lot.
      (5)   For purposes of division (A)(2) above, the distance between any two
sexually-oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
      (6)   Any sexually-oriented business lawfully operating on the date on
which the ordinance from which this chapter derives takes effect that is in
violation of divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above shall be deemed a non-
conforming use. The non-conforming use will be permitted to continue for a
period not to exceed one year, unless sooner terminated for any reason or
voluntarily discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such non-conforming
uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered; except that, the
use may be changed to a conforming use. If two or more sexually-oriented
businesses are within 500 feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible
location, the sexually-oriented business which was first established and
continually operating at a particular location is the conforming use and the
later established business is non-conforming.
      (7)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use
is not rendered a non- conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant
or renewal of the sexually-oriented business license, of a church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, public park, residential district or
residential lot within 500 feet of the sexually-oriented business. This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license and does not apply
when an application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or
has been revoked.
(2012 Code, § 19-35)
   (B)   (1)   If the Chief of Police denies the issuance of a license to an
applicant because the location of the sexually-oriented business establishment
is in violation of division (A) above, the applicant may, not later than ten
calendar days after receiving notice of the denial, file with the City Clerk a
written request for an exemption from the location restrictions of division (A)
above.
      (2)   If the written request is filed with the City Clerk within the ten-
day limit, the City Council shall consider the request. The City Clerk shall
set a date for the hearing within 60 days from the date the written request is
received.
      (3)   The City Council shall hear and consider evidence offered by any
interested person. The formal rules of evidence do not apply.
      (4)   The City Council may, in its discretion, grant an exemption from
the location restrictions of division (A) above if it makes the following
findings:
         (a)   The location of the proposed sexually-oriented business will not
have a detrimental effect on nearby properties or be contrary to the public
safety or welfare;
         (b)   The granting of the exemption will not violate the spirit and
intent of this chapter;
         (c)   The location of the proposed sexually-oriented business will not
downgrade the property values or quality of life in the adjacent areas or
encourage the development of urban blight;
         (d)   The location of an additional sexually-oriented business in the
area will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation, nor will
it interfere with any efforts of urban renewal or restoration; and
         (e)   All other applicable provisions of this chapter will be
observed.
      (5)   The City Council shall grant or deny the exemption by a majority
vote. Failure to reach a majority vote shall result in denial of the exemption.
Disputes of fact shall be decided on the basis of a preponderance of the
evidence. The decision of the City Council is final.
      (6)   If the Council grants the exemption, the exemption is valid for one
year from the date of the Council’s action. Upon the expiration of an
exemption, the sexually-oriented business is in violation of the location
restrictions of division (A) above until the applicant applies for and receives
another exemption.
      (7)   If the Council denies the exemption, the applicant may not reapply
for an exemption until at least 12 months have elapsed since the date of the
Council’s action.
      (8)   The grant of an exemption does not exempt the applicant from any
other provisions of this chapter other than the location restrictions of
division (A) above.
(2012 Code, § 19-36)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Location restrictions authorized, see Tex. Local Government Code § 243.006
§ 113.05  NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model studio. It
is a defense to prosecution under this section if the person under 18 years was
in a restroom not open to public view or persons of the opposite sex.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises; except that, it may be placed in a reception room,
open to the public.
(2012 Code, § 19-37)  (Ord. passed 3-3-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06  ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(2012 Code, § 19-38)  (Ord. passed 3-3-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07  ADULT THEATERS AND ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of an adult theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
knowingly appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of an adult
theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (A) and (B) above if
the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or persons
of the opposite sex.
(2012 Code, § 19-39)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08  ADULT HOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does not have a
sexually-oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a sleeping room
to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she
rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT and SUBRENT mean
the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(2012 Code, § 19-40)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09  EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY-EXPLICIT FILMS OR VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 feet of floor space, a film, video cassette or
other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The Chief of Police may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since
it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station may be made without the prior approval of the Chief of Police or his or
her designee.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times that
any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to
division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one footcandle as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) above
commits an offense if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(2012 Code, § 19-41)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.10  DEFENSES TO PROSECUTION.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
113.05 of this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a
modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a propriety school licensed by the state; a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferrable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; and
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where, in order to participate in a class, a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and/or
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under §§
113.07 and
113.09 of this chapter that each item of descriptive, printed, film or video
material offered for sale or rental, taken as a whole, contains serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
(2012 Code, § 19-42)
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 113.25  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A person commits an offense if he or she operates a sexually-oriented
business without a valid license issued by the city for the particular type of
business.
(2012 Code, § 19-61)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority to require license, see Tex. Local Government Code § 243.007
§ 113.26  APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a license required by this subchapter must be
made on a form provided by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared, but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. Applicants who must comply with §
113.09 of this chapter shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of §
113.09 of this chapter.
   (B)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the law by the Health Department, Fire Department and Building Official.
   (C)   (1)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business
is an individual, he or she must sign the application for a license as
applicant. If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is
other than an individual, each individual who has an interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant.
      (2)   Each applicant must be qualified under this section and each
applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is granted.
   (D)   The fact that a person possesses a valid theater license, dance hall
license or public house of amusement license does not exempt him or her from
the requirement of obtaining a sexually-oriented business license. A person who
operates a sexually-oriented business and possesses a theater license, public
house of amusement license or dance hall license shall comply with the
requirements and provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   (1)   The fee for an original or transfer application is $500.
      (2)   The fee for a renewal application is $325.
      (3)   The fee for a re-inspection of the premises is $175.
      (4)   Payment shall be by certified check, cashier’s check or money
order.
      (5)   The fee shall be paid in full at the time of application and is not
refundable.
(2012 Code, § 19-62)
Statutory reference:
   License applications, see Tex. Local Government Code § 243.007
§ 113.27  ISSUANCE; GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   The Chief of Police shall approve the issuance of a license to an applicant
within 60 days after receipt of an application unless he or she finds one or
more of the following to be true:
   (A)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
   (B)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue in his or her payment
to the city of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against him or her or
imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually- oriented business;
   (C)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
   (D)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
violation of a provision of this chapter, other than the offense of operating a
sexually-oriented business without a license, within two years immediately
preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect;
   (E)   An applicant is residing with a person who has been denied a license
by the city to operate a sexually-oriented business within the preceding 12
months, or residing with a person whose license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been revoked within the preceding 12 months;
   (F)   The premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department and the Building
Official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances;
   (G)   The license fee required has not been paid;
   (H)   An applicant has been employed in a sexually-oriented business in a
managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and has demonstrated that he
or she is unable to operate or manage a sexually- oriented business premises in
a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law enforcement
officers; and/or
   (I)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 19-63)
CHAPTER 114:  SOLICITATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Findings and purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Prohibited conduct; using children
   
114.04   Solicitation on streets, medians, roadways and rights-of-way
   
114.05   Permit required; application
   
114.06   Hours of solicitation
   
114.07   Duration of permit; non-transferrable
   
114.08   Display of permit and identification
   
114.09   Permit denial or revocation; appeal
   
114.10   Fee; exemption
   
114.11   Application
Itinerant Vendors
   
114.25   Definitions
   
114.26   Registration for interstate commerce
   
114.27   Activities prohibited on Sunday and between certain hours
   
114.28   Entering residence without invitation
   
114.29   Peddling prohibited within fire limits
   
114.30   Police power; purpose and construction
   
114.31   License required; application; fee; term
   
114.32   Background checks; right to deny license
Cross-reference:
   Advertising, see
Ch. 110
   Health and Safety; Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
Statutory reference:
   Criminal trespass, see Tex. Penal Code § 30.05
   Hawkers, peddlers and pawnbrokers, see Tex. Local Government Code § 215.031
   Persons regarded as retailers under sales tax law, see Tex. Tax Code §
151.024
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01  FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council makes the following findings:
      (1)   Pursuant to Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 311, the city has
exclusive control over and under the public highways, streets and alleys of the
city;
      (2)   The city holds the rights-of-way adjoining the public highways,
streets and alleys of the city in trust for the benefit of citizens of the
city;
      (3)   The use of the public highways, streets and alleys and their
adjoining rights-of-way for soliciting and vending is detrimental to the
character and quality of residential, recreational, commercial, industrial and
business areas, property and the quality of life of citizens of the city;
      (4)   While roadway vendors, peddlers, solicitors and merchants engage in
legitimate and honorable commercial activities which enhance the convenience of
the consuming public, soliciting and vending to persons in motor vehicles while
standing on the public highways, alleys, streets and adjoining rights-of-way
has the potential to create a hazard to the users and the bystanders of the
public highways and streets;
      (5)   The nature and characteristics of such commercial activities
require the reasonable regulation of the time, manner and place of such
activities;
      (6)   The public highways, streets and alleys and adjoining rights-of-way
are primarily used to promote the smooth flow of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic; and
      (7)   The reasonable regulations enacted hereby do not prohibit or
inhibit free expression of religious, political or other ideas and beliefs, but
regulate commercial activities and conduct for the below expressed public
purposes.
   (B)   The purposes of the regulation set forth in this subchapter are:
      (1)   To reasonably regulate vendors, peddlers, merchants and solicitors
in and upon public highways, streets and alleys and adjoining rights-of-way;
      (2)   To protect the public health, safety and welfare and promote the
use and enjoyment of public highways, streets and alleys and adjoining rights-
of-way in an attractive environment;
      (3)   To promote smooth and safe flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
and avoid congestion and hazards;
      (4)   To enhance and protect the quality and attractiveness of the
environment;
      (5)   To protect the use and enjoyment of the people in their homes;
      (6)   To protect the public from fraudulent, illegal, unsafe or
unhealthful commercial activities, products and services;
      (7)   To preserve the character and quality of residential, recreational,
commercial, industrial and business areas and property; and
      (8)   To promote and enhance the quality of commercial activities within
the city.
(2012 Code, § 19-200)
§ 114.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area that is adjacent to and within ten feet of the edge
of the street, highway or roadway. However, the term does not include a
sidewalk or an area that is separated from the edge of the street, highway or
roadway by a sidewalk.
   SOLICITATION, SOLICITING, SOLICITED or any other action form of the word
SOLICIT. The act of asking, begging, pleading or in any other such manner,
communicate, whether orally, by written and/or printed material, hand signing
or by any other method, direct or implied, by an individual or group of
individuals for the purpose of receiving or obtaining money, alms, gifts or
items of value, real or intrinsic for said individual, for said group of
individuals or a for-profit organization or a non-profit organization,
individual, person or more than one person, organization, couple, family,
relationship, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership, club, company,
corporation, business trust, establishment, religious institution or religion,
association or the like or chapter or affiliate thereof, for the purposes of
giving, use, sustenance, purchase, barter or any other such form.
   SOLICITOR. The person soliciting.
(2012 Code, § 19-201)
§ 114.03  PROHIBITED CONDUCT; USING CHILDREN.
   (A)   A solicitor shall not:
      (1)   Make physical contact with a person unless that person’s permission
is obtained;
      (2)   Continue efforts to solicit from a person, once said person has
indicated, orally, by gesture, or any other recognizable form of communication,
to the solicitor that he or she does not wish to be solicited;
      (3)   Approach or, in some recognizable form, communicate to a person in
such a manner as would cause a reasonable person to believe that the person is
being threatened with:
         (a)   Imminent bodily injury; or
         (b)   The commission of a criminal act upon the person, or another
person, or upon property in the person’s immediate possession.
      (4)   Persist in a solicitation after the person has communicated, in
some recognizable manner, a negative response; by blocking, interfering,
obstructing the person’s method and choice of direction of travel;
      (5)   Engage in conduct or communicating in a manner that would
reasonably be construed as intended to compel or force a person to accede to
demands;
      (6)   Misrepresent the purpose of the solicitation;
      (7)   Misrepresent the affiliation of the solicitation;
      (8)   Represent that the issuance of any permit or registration, under
this division (A), as an endorsement or recommendation of the solicitation; or
      (9)   Engage in conduct that creates a safety or traffic hazard for the
solicitor or another person.
(2012 Code, § 19-202)
   (B)   The use of children to solicit shall be in accordance with the child
labor laws of the state and the United States.
(2012 Code, § 19-203) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04  SOLICITATION ON STREETS, MEDIANS, ROADWAYS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No solicitor shall stand, kneel, squat, sit, lay, walk or the like in or
upon a street, highway, roadway, roadway median or alley of a public vehicle
easement or the like to solicit unless trained in traffic management and
safety, experienced and permitted to do so. Traffic management and safety
training may be scheduled by contacting the office of the city’s Chief of
Police.
(2012 Code, § 19-204)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.05  PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   There shall be no soliciting within the city without first having a
written permit. This section does not apply where the solicitor is on private
property by express, prior invitation of the owner of the property or a person
residing on the premises.
(2012 Code, § 19-205)
   (B)   A permit to solicit within the city may be granted upon application
for such permit and approval by the City Secretary’s office prior to the
initiation of the solicitation. If the application is mailed to the City
Secretary’s office, it must be received, approved and written notice received
by the applicant, prior to initiation of the solicitation. Such application
shall be sworn to by the applicant and shall contain, at a minimum, the
following information:
      (1)   The full and legally recognized names and any associated aliases,
logos, nicknames and abbreviated names of the entity or person applying for a
permit to solicit;
      (2)   If the entity/person is a part of or affiliated with another entity
all applicable full and legally recognized names, and any associated aliases,
logos, nicknames and abbreviated names;
      (3)   All legally recognized names and any associated aliases, nicknames,
abbreviated names, phone and/or pager numbers and addresses of all officers and
directors or trustees of the entity;
      (4)   Applicant shall show satisfactory proof of authority to represent
the entity applicant states that applicant represents and such proof shall be
in writing;
      (5)   If the applicant is a corporation or if the individual is employed
by a corporation, the date and place of incorporation;
      (6)   For the individual who will be in charge of conducting the
solicitation, the name and any associated aliases, nicknames and abbreviated
names, phone and/or pager numbers as well as the times and days said individual
can be reached at each said phone and/or pager number and associated mailing
and street address;
      (7)   For the individual who will be in charge of conducting the
solicitation, a physical description which includes race, sex, height, weight,
hair and eye color, date of birth, driver’s license number and the name of the
state issuing the driver’s license;
      (8)   For the individual who will be in charge of conducting the
solicitation, the names of other communities in which the applicant has worked
as a solicitor or canvasser in the past 12 months and, if employed by a
different company in the other communities, the name of those companies shall
be stated;
      (9)   The nature of merchandise to be sold or offered for sale or the
nature of the services to be furnished;
      (10)   Whether such applicant upon any such order so obtained will
demand, accept or receive payment or deposit of money in advance of final
delivery;
      (11)   For each solicitor to be involved, the names and any associated
aliases, nicknames and abbreviated names, age and associated mailing and street
address;
      (12)   For the individual who will be in charge of conducting the
solicitation, City Police Department certification of traffic management and
safety education and a summary of related experience;
      (13)   An outline of the method to be used in conducting the
solicitation; and
      (14)   The period, proposed dates, times and location(s) of the proposed
solicitation.
(2012 Code, § 19-206) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06  HOURS OF SOLICITATION.
   All solicitations shall occur during the time that is one hour after sunrise
and one hour before sunset. This section does not apply where the solicitor is
on the property by express, prior invitation of the owner of the property or a
person residing on the premises.
(2012 Code, § 19-207)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.07  DURATION OF PERMIT; NON-TRANSFERRABLE.
   (A)   The duration of the permit is as specified on the permit.
(2012 Code, § 19-208)
   (B)   Any permit issued under this subchapter shall be personal to the
entity or person(s) so named on the application and shall not be assigned or
transferred to any other person(s) entity or affiliated entity. Any attempted
assignment or transfer shall render the permit void.
(2012 Code, § 19-209)
§ 114.08  DISPLAY OF PERMIT AND IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   The person(s) in charge of conducting the solicitation shall provide
each solicitor with a copy of the permit issued by the city. It shall be
unlawful for any solicitor to engage in solicitation without having such copy
in his or her possession. It shall be unlawful for any solicitor to fail or
refuse to show or display such copy upon the request of any person.
(2012 Code, § 19-210)
   (B)   The City Secretary shall issue identification document(s) to the
person(s) in charge of conducting the solicitation, who shall provide copies to
all solicitors involved in the solicitation. The identification document is to
be clearly displayed and recognizable by any person at any time. The document
will identify who the solicitor is and for whom the solicitor is soliciting. It
shall be unlawful for any solicitor to fail or refuse to show or display such
identification.
(2012 Code, § 19-211) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09  PERMIT DENIAL OR REVOCATION; APPEAL.
   (A)   A permit to solicit may be revoked or an application to solicit may be
denied by the City Secretary, City Administrator, Chief of Police or any member
of the City Council when it has been determined that:
      (1)   An applicant has knowingly given false or misleading information on
an application;
      (2)   A solicitor, while soliciting, is charged and subsequently
convicted of theft or fraud or a violation of any city, state or federal law,
in connection with said solicitation;
      (3)   A solicitor or the entity has made, or caused to be made, false
statements or misrepresentations to any member of the public with regard to the
solicitations;
      (4)   A solicitor or the entity has in any way publicly represented that
the permit granted is an endorsement or recommendation of the cause for which
the solicitations are being conducted;
      (5)   A solicitor or the entity violates any part of any provision of
this subchapter; or
      (6)   A solicitor creates a traffic or safety hazard to themselves, the
users of the roadway, property owner or occupant thereof.
(2012 Code, § 19-212)
   (B)   (1)   If an applicant is denied a permit or a permit is revoked, the
applicant may appeal that action to the City Council by submitting a letter to
the City Secretary’s office within 15 days of the action.
      (2)   A hearing on the denial or revocation will be scheduled for the
next regular meeting of the City Council that is more than six days away.
      (3)   The Council will render a decision on the appeal within ten days of
the hearing.
(2012 Code, § 19-213) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.10  FEE; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The City Council will set the fee for a permit to solicit.
   (B)   A person may be exempted from the payment of the fee by filing an
affidavit with the City Secretary, which avers that the person is incapable of
paying the fee, and sets forth the person’s financial condition.
(2012 Code, § 19-214)
§ 114.11  APPLICATION.
   These regulations do not apply to persons and organizations that are
regulated by federal or state agencies to the extent that the federal or state
law or regulation conflicts with this subchapter.
(2012 Code, § 19-371)
ITINERANT VENDORS
§ 114.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTERSTATE COMMERCE. Soliciting, selling or taking orders for or offering to
take orders for any goods, wares, merchandise, photographs, newspapers or
magazines, or subscriptions to newspapers or magazines which, at the time the
order is taken, are in another state or will be produced in another state and
shipped or introduced into this city in the fulfillment of such orders.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person who goes from house to
house or from place to place in the city, soliciting, selling or taking orders
for or offering to sell or take orders for any goods, wares, merchandise,
services, photographs, newspapers, magazines or subscriptions to newspapers or
magazines.
(2012 Code, § 68-31)
§ 114.26  REGISTRATION FOR INTERSTATE COMMERCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for persons engaged in interstate commerce to
engage in any activity described in §
114.25 of this chapter in the city without having first registered with the
City Secretary giving the following information:
      (1)   The name, home address and local address, if any, of the
registrant;
      (2)   The name and address of the person the registrant represents or for
whom or through whom orders are to be solicited or cleared;
      (3)   The nature of the articles or things to be sold or for which orders
are to be solicited;
      (4)   Whether the registrant, upon any sale or order, shall demand or
receive or accept payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery; and
      (5)   The period of time during which the registrant wishes to solicit or
sell in the city.
   (B)   The registrant, at the time of the registration as provided for in
this section, shall submit, for inspection of the City Secretary, written proof
of his or her identity, which may be in the form of an automobile operator’s
license, or an identification letter or card issued to the registrant by the
person for whom or through whom orders are to be solicited or cleared.
(2012 Code, § 68-32)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.27  ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED ON SUNDAY AND BETWEEN CERTAIN HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether licensed under this subchapter
or not, to engage in any activity described in §
114.25 of this chapter on Sunday or between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. on any other day.
(2012 Code, § 68-33)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.28  ENTERING RESIDENCE WITHOUT INVITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter in or upon the premises of any
private residence in the city for the purpose of engaging in any activity
mentioned in §
114.25 of this chapter unless he or she has been invited or requested so to do
by the owner or occupant of the premises.
(2012 Code, § 68-34)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.29  PEDDLING PROHIBITED WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell fruit, meat, produce or any kind
of goods, wares or merchandise on the streets, alleys, sidewalks or public
places within the fire limits of the city.
(2012 Code, § 68-35)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.30  POLICE POWER; PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter is and shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of
the city, for the public safety, comfort, convenience and protection of the
city and its citizens; and all of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
construed for the accomplishment of that purpose.
(2012 Code, § 68-36)
§ 114.31  LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE; TERM.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for any itinerant merchant or itinerant
vendor to engage in any activity mentioned in §
114.25 of this chapter within the city without first obtaining a license to do
so from the City Secretary.
(2012 Code, § 68-61)
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring a license required by this subchapter
shall make written application to the City Secretary. Such application shall
show:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the person he or she represents;
      (3)   The kind of goods offered for sale;
      (4)   Whether the applicant, upon any such sale or order, shall demand,
accept or receive payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery; and
      (5)   The period of time such applicant wishes to sell or solicit in the
city.
(2012 Code, § 68-62)
   (C)   Applicant to furnish photograph. Each applicant for a license under
this subchapter shall submit with his or her application for such license a
photograph of himself or herself taken not more than 12 months preceding the
date of the application.
(2012 Code, § 68-63)
   (D)   Bond of applicant.
      (1)   The application for a license under this subchapter shall be
accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of $1,000, signed by the applicant and
signed, as surety, by some surety company authorized to do business in the
state, conditioned for the final delivery of goods, wares, merchandise,
services, photographs, magazines and newspapers in accordance with the terms of
any order obtained prior to delivery and also conditioned to indemnify any and
all purchasers or customers for any and all defects in material or workmanship
that may exist in the article sold by the principal of the bond, at the time of
delivery, and that may be discovered by such purchaser or customer within 30
days after delivery. Such bond shall be for the use and benefit of all persons
that may make any purchase or give any order to the principal on the bond or to
any agent or employee of the principal.
      (2)   In case the applicant for such a license is a person engaging in
any activity mentioned in §
114.25 of this chapter through one or more agents or employees, such applicant
shall be required to enter into only one bond in the sum of $1,000 as required
in division (D)(1) above, which bond shall be made to cover the activities of
all agents or employees of the applicant.
(2012 Code, § 68-64)
   (E)   Fee. The license fee for an itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor
shall be as established by the Council. When any person engages in any activity
mentioned in §
114.25 of this chapter through one or more agents or employees, such person
shall, in addition to such fee, pay a license fee in the same amount for each
agent or employee so engaged. The fees provided for in this division (E) shall
be used for the purpose of defraying expenses incident to the issuing of such
licenses.
(2012 Code, § 68-65)
   (F)   Term. Any license issued under this subchapter shall be valid for a
period of three, six or 12 months from the date of issuance, depending on the
amount of fee paid in accord with division (E) above.
(2012 Code, § 68-66)
   (G)   To be carried on person. Any license issued under this subchapter
shall be carried on the person of the itinerant merchant or itinerant vendor at
all times while he or she is engaged in soliciting or selling.
(2012 Code, § 68-67)
   (H)   Exemptions. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to sales
made to dealers by commercial travelers or sales agents in the usual course of
business, nor to sales made under authority and by order of law, nor to vendors
of farm or dairy products grown or produced by themselves, nor to persons
engaged in interstate commerce and registered in accordance with §
114.25 of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 68-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.32  BACKGROUND CHECKS; RIGHT TO DENY LICENSE.
   The city reserves the right to conduct background investigations as a
prerequisite to issuance of a license under this subchapter, and the city may
deny any applicant’s request for license as a result of a background
investigation.
(2012 Code, § 68-69)
CHAPTER 115:  GARAGE SALES
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Intent
   
115.03   Permitted locations
   
115.04   Limitations on sales
   
115.05   Hours of sales
   
115.06   Public address system prohibited
   
115.07   Display of goods for sale
   
115.08   Exceptions
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, GARAGE SALE, YARD SALE, BASEMENT SALE and RUMMAGE
SALE, including any similar terms such as ATTIC SALE, LAWN SALE, FLEA MARKET
SALE and the like, means any sale of tangible personal property, whether used,
secondhand, damaged or discarded, not otherwise regulated in this code of
ordinances, advertised by any means whereby the public at large is or can be
aware of such sale.
(2012 Code, § 60-91)
§ 115.02  INTENT.
   It is the intent of this chapter to regulate the term and frequency of
personal property sales in residential areas so that the residential
environment of such areas is not disturbed or disrupted, and to prohibit the
infringement of any business into such established areas.
(2012 Code, § 60-92)
§ 115.03  PERMITTED LOCATIONS.
   An owner, tenant or lessee of a residence or charitable institution,
including churches, schools and hospitals, may conduct a sale as described in
this chapter upon the premises of his or her residence or upon the premises of
such charitable institution, as provided in this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 60-93)
§ 115.04  LIMITATIONS ON SALES.
   (A)   Any sale as described in this chapter shall not be conducted for
longer three consecutive days, and no more than four such sales at any one
location will be permitted within a fiscal (January 1 through December 31)
year.
   (B)   Signs advertising a sale regulated by this chapter may be erected or
placed on the premises of the sale beginning on the day preceding the beginning
of the sale and shall be removed immediately at the end of the sale. No sign
may be placed on the city easement between the sidewalk and the curb. No sign
shall be in excess of six square feet, and no sign shall be illuminated in any
manner whatsoever, except incidentally by streetlights or house lights.
(2012 Code, § 60-94)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.05  HOURS OF SALES.
   The sale shall be limited to the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
(2012 Code, § 60-95)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.06  PUBLIC ADDRESS SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   The use of a public address system is prohibited by garage sales.
(2012 Code, § 60-96)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07  DISPLAY OF GOODS FOR SALE.
   Goods for sale shall not be displayed on public property, unless the sale is
by a non-profit organization, which has obtained prior permission to hold such
a sale. Neither shall such goods be displayed on private property in a manner,
which will materially impede visibility, or pedestrian or vehicular traffic on
or off the premises.
(2012 Code, § 60-97)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.08  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to or affect:
   (A)   Persons selling goods pursuant to an order or process of a court of
competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons acting in accordance with their powers and duties as public
officials;
   (C)   Persons selling or advertising for sale items of personal property
which are specifically named or described in the advertisement and which
separate items do not exceed five in number; or
   (D)   Non-profit organizations operating garage sales, bazaars and the like
on public or private property.
(2012 Code, § 60-98)
CHAPTER 116:  TAXICABS
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Definition
   
116.02   Scope
   
116.03   Driver to have state driver’s license
   
116.04   Identification of vehicle
   
116.05   Liability insurance
   
116.06   Fares
   
116.07   Stations
Licensing
   
116.20   License required
   
116.21   Application; Council action
   
116.22   Fee
   
116.23   Receipt
   
116.24   Term
   
116.25   License non-assignable; revocation
Statutory reference:
   Driver’s licenses and certificates, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 521
   Municipal regulation of taxicabs, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 215.004
and 215.029
   Permit fee or street rental charge based on gross receipts, see Tex.
Transportation Code § 502.003
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01  DEFINITION.
   A TAXICAB is a private passenger vehicle, regardless of how it is propelled,
that provides passenger taxicab transportation services for compensation, is
designed for carrying no more than eight passengers and is operated:
   (A)   Within the jurisdiction of the city;
   (B)   On property owned by the city, singly or jointly with one or more
other municipalities or public agencies;
   (C)   On property in which the city possesses an ownership interest; or
   (D)   By transporting from the city, city property or property in which the
city has an interest and returning to it.
(2012 Code, § 92-31)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Local Government Code § 215.004
§ 116.02  SCOPE.
   All taxicabs shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 92-32)
§ 116.03  DRIVER TO HAVE STATE DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   No person shall drive a taxicab within the city unless he or she has first
obtained from the state’s Department of Public Safety a driver’s license.
(2012 Code, § 92-33)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.04  IDENTIFICATION OF VEHICLE.
   Every operator of a licensed taxicab shall cause to have plainly painted on,
or permanently attached to, such taxicab a sign giving the name, trade name or
firm name under which the taxicab is operated and also stating that such motor
vehicle is a taxicab or taxi. In addition, such motor vehicle being operated as
a taxicab shall have a suitable light on top of the vehicle; and the
requirements for the sign “taxi” or “taxicab” may be provided in connection
with such light.
(2012 Code, § 92-34)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.05  LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Each vehicle and operator regulated by this chapter must be covered by a
policy of liability insurance issued by a corporate insurer licensed to do
business in the state, such policy providing limits of coverage not less than
the maximum liability of municipalities as set forth in the state’s Tort Claim
Act (Tex. Civil Practice and Remedies Code § 101.023), as amended. Such
insurance coverage shall be obtained from a reliable insurance company having a
permit to do business in the state and such company and such policy shall be
subject to the approval of the City Secretary. Proof of such insurance coverage
shall be furnished the City Secretary before a license for the taxicab shall be
issued under this chapter. The carrying of such liability insurance coverage
shall be a prerequisite for the holding of a valid license to operate a taxicab
in the city; and if, for any reason at any time, any operator of a taxicab does
not have such liability insurance coverage in effect, any license that may have
been previously issued to such operator shall immediately become null and void
and of no further effect.
(2012 Code, § 92-35)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.06  FARES.
   The rate of fares charged for taxicab service within the city shall be such
as prescribed by the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 92-36)
§ 116.07  STATIONS.
   Each taxicab operating in the city shall have a designated station from
which to operate and such station shall be listed with the City Secretary.
(2012 Code, § 92-37)
LICENSING
§ 116.20  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No taxicab shall be operated on any public street in the city unless such
taxicab has been licensed as provided in this subchapter.
(2012 Code, § 92-61)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.21  APPLICATION; COUNCIL ACTION.
   (A)   Every person desiring to obtain a license authorizing the operation of
a taxicab within the city shall make application for license with the City
Secretary, which application shall state:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Whether the applicant is an individual, firm or corporation and, if
a firm, the name and address of each member; and
      (3)   The number of vehicles proposed to be licensed.
(2012 Code, § 92-62)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Secretary, when an application for a
taxicab license is filed with him or her, at the next regular meeting of the
City Council following the filing of such application, to call the attention of
the Council to the filing of the application. Upon consideration of such
application, the Council may grant or refuse such license as, in its
discretion, may seem to the best interest of the citizens of the city and the
public in general.
(2012 Code, § 92-63)
§ 116.22  FEE.
   (A)   There shall be an annual license fee for the operation of a taxicab
within the city as established by the Council.
   (B)   At the time of issuance of a license, the applicant shall deposit an
amount established by the Council for each taxicab licensed.
   (C)   At the end of the license year, the fee under this section shall be
computed and paid, the licensee being given credit for such deposit.
(2012 Code, § 92-64)
§ 116.23  RECEIPT.
   (A)   Issuance and contents. Upon the granting of an application for a
license under this chapter and the payment of the license fee deposit
prescribed in §
116.22 of this chapter, the City Secretary shall issue a license receipt, which
license receipt shall state the make, model, engine number and current state
license number of the motor vehicle to be operated as a taxicab, the amount of
the license fee paid and the period for which the license is issued.
   (B)   Carried in taxicab. A license receipt issued under division (A) above
shall at all times be carried in the taxicab for which it was issued, available
for inspection by any officer of the city.
(2012 Code, § 92-65)
§ 116.24  TERM.
   Each taxicab license shall be issued for the current calendar year.
(2012 Code, § 92-66)
§ 116.25  LICENSE NON-ASSIGNABLE; REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall be non-
assignable and may be revoked by the City Council at any time it shall appear
to the Council that the licensee has violated any provision of this chapter or
failed to comply with any requirement of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 92-67)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
      
131.   YOUTH CURFEW
      
132.   FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130:  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Smoking in municipal buildings limited
   
130.02   Refrigerators and other containers
   
130.03   Air guns; discharge prohibited
   
130.04   Appliances and non-conforming articles in public view
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  SMOKING IN MUNICIPAL BUILDINGS LIMITED.
   All persons are prohibited from using tobacco in any form within all
municipal buildings owned by the city and subject only to the following
exceptions: the Municipal Judge and Chief of Police may designate a smoking
area within the administrative office area of the Court and Police Department.
(2012 Code, § 60-1)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  REFRIGERATORS AND OTHER CONTAINERS.
   (A)   This section applies only to a refrigerator, icebox or other air-tight
or semi-air-tight container that has:
      (1)   A capacity of at least one and one-half cubic feet;
      (2)   An opening of at least 50 square inches; and
      (3)   A door or lid equipped with a latch or other fastening device
capable of securing the door or lid shut.
   (B)   A person may not place a container described by division (A) above
outside of a structure or in a warehouse, storage room or unoccupied or
abandoned structure so that the container is accessible to children.
   (C)   A person may not permit a container described by division (A) above to
remain in an area specified by division (B) above so that the container is
accessible to children.
   (D)   A person commits an offense if the person violates divisions (B) or
(C) above.
   (E)   An offense under this section is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine.
   (F)   Each day of a continuing violation constitutes a separate offense.
(2012 Code, § 60-2)  Penalty, see §
130.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 756.011 et seq.
§ 130.03  AIR GUNS; DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or discharge any air gun
or air rifle of any description in the city.
   (B)   Exceptions: an organization sponsoring a specific event or activity
within the city must appear before the City Council prior to the event to
request a temporary, one-time exception to the prohibition of air gun
discharges within the city limits. The Council shall consider the request and
may grant the temporary exception during the event or activity.
(2012 Code, § 60-3)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  APPLIANCES AND NON-CONFORMING ARTICLES IN PUBLIC VIEW.
   It shall be unlawful for appliances, fixtures or other products manufactured
or otherwise intended for installation and/or use indoors to be kept, stored,
used or displayed outside of an enclosed structure for longer than 72 hours in
an area zoned for R-1 or R-2 residential uses.
(2012 Code, § 60-4)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person found in violation of §
130.01 of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense and, upon conviction,
shall be fined in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(2012 Code, § 60-1)
   (C) Any person guilty of causing an infraction of §
130.04 of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined in accordance with §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, each day constituting a separate violation.
(2012 Code, § 60-4)
CHAPTER 131:  YOUTH CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Offenses
   
131.03   Defenses
   
131.04   Enforcement procedure and administrative appeals
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
      (2)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
   EMERGENCY. Includes, but shall not be limited to, fire, natural disaster, an
automobile accident or seeking immediate medical treatment for any person.
   INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION. Transportation between states of the United
States or between a state of the United States and a foreign country, to which
travel trough the city is merely incidental.
   INTRASTATE TRANSPORTATION. Transportation between locations within the state
to which any travel through the city is merely incidental.
   MINOR. Any person less than 17 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is the natural or adoptive parent of a minor. PARENT
shall also include a court-appointed guardian or other person 21 years of age
or older who has been authorized by the parent, by a court order or by the
court-appointed guardian to have care and physical control of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access, and includes, but is not limited to, streets and highways,
and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transportation facilities, restaurants and shops.
(2012 Code, § 60-36)
§ 131.02  OFFENSES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to intentionally or knowingly
remain, walk, run, stand, drive or ride about in or upon any public place in
the city during curfew hours.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a parent of a minor to knowingly allow or
permit the minor to be in violation of the curfew imposed in division (A)
above.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator or employee of any
privately-owned place of business operated for profit to which the public is
invited, to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of said place
of business during curfew hours.
(2012 Code, § 60-37)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  DEFENSES.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
131.02 of this chapter that, at the time of the act that otherwise would
constitute an offense:
   (A)   The minor was accompanied by his or her parent;
   (B)   The minor was accompanied by an adult 21 years of age or older
approved by the parent;
   (C)   The minor was on an emergency errand;
   (D)   The minor was attending a school, religious or government-sponsored
activity or going to or coming from a school, religious or government-sponsored
activity;
   (E)   The minor was engaged in a lawful employment activity or labor
organization meeting or going to or coming from said lawful employment or labor
organization meeting;
   (F)   The minor was on the premises of the place where such minor resides or
the premises of a next- door neighbor and the neighbor had not communicated an
objection to the minor or the minor’s parent;
   (G)   The minor was on an errand directed by his or her parent;
   (H)   The minor was in an aircraft or motor vehicle involved in interstate
or intrastate transportation or was awaiting transportation;
   (I)   The minor was exercising his or her First and Fourteenth rights
protected by the United States Constitution, including, but not limited to, the
free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the right of assembly;
   (J)   The minor was married or had been married or had disabilities of
minority removed in accordance with the state’s Family Code; or
   (K)   In a prosecution under §
131.02(C) of this chapter, the owner, operator or employee of the place of
business promptly notified the Police Department that a minor was present on
the premises of the business during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(2012 Code, § 60-38)
§ 131.04  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE AND ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS.
   (A)   Any city police officer, upon finding a minor in violation of §
131.02(A) of this chapter, shall determine the name, address and identity of
the minor and the name, address and identity of the minor’s parent(s) or
guardian(s). A warning notice shall be issued to the minor, who shall be
ordered to go home by the most direct means and route. A copy of the notice
shall be filed with the city’s Police Chief who shall send a letter to the
parent(s) or guardian(s) of the minor advising that the minor was found in
violation of this chapter, and soliciting cooperation in the future.
   (B)   Any city police officer, upon finding a minor in violation of §
131.02(A) of this chapter when the minor has once previously been warned as in
division (A) above, shall record the name, address and identity of the minor
and the minor’s parent(s) or guardians(s), and shall issue a citation to the
minor for the violation of this chapter. The minor shall be ordered to go home
by the most direct means and route. A copy of the citation shall be filed with
the Chief of Police who shall send a letter to the parent(s) or guardian(s) of
the minor found in violation of this chapter, the letter will address the
requirement of parental control of the minor.
   (C)   Any city police officer, upon finding a minor in violation of §
131.02(A) of this chapter, when the minor has at least twice previously been
found in violation and issued a warning and a citation as provided in divisions
(A) and (B) above, shall record the name, address and identity of the minor and
the minor’s parent(s) or guardian(s). The minor shall be ordered to go home by
the most direct means and route and the officer shall file a complaint against
the minor and the minor’s parent(s) or guardian(s) in Municipal Court for the
violation. The Police Department shall file all necessary documentation and
provide evidence required for prosecution of the minor/and or the parent(s) or
guardian(s).
   (D)   If, after receiving a warning notice or letter as provided for under
divisions (A) and (B) above, a person believes that the document was issued
without justification, the person shall have ten days from the receipt of the
document to present an appeal, in writing, to the city’s Chief of Police. The
appeal shall state the facts and circumstances which the appellant believes
make the issuance of the documentation in question unjustified. The Chief of
Police or his or her designated representative shall respond, in writing, to
the appellant not later than 20 days after receipt of the appeal, stating
whether the issuance of the document or documents in question will be upheld or
rescinded and stating the reasons for decision. All decisions shall be final
with the ruling of the Chief of Police or his or her representative. If a
document is ordered rescinded after issuance, the status of the minor and the
parent(s) or guardian(s) in question thereafter shall be the same as if the
document ordered rescinded had never been issued, and all city records shall be
corrected accordingly.
(2012 Code, § 60-39)
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any minor violating the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, is guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, as defined by the state’s Penal
Code, and shall be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of Tex. Family
Code Title 3 and the state’s Code of Criminal Procedure.
   (B)   A parent who violates §
131.02(B) of this chapter or a person who violates §
131.02(C) of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor, which shall be punishable by a fine.
   (C)   In assessing punishment under this chapter, the Municipal Court Judge
may consider a community service program or a teen court program, in lieu of
all or part of the fine.
(2012 Code, § 60-40)
CHAPTER 132:  FIREARMS AND WEAPONS
Section
Firearms
   
132.01   Discharge prohibited
   
132.02   Carrying firearms on city premises
 
   
132.99   Penalty
FIREARMS
§ 132.01  DISCHARGE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall fire or discharge any gun, revolver, pistol or other
firearms within the city.
(2012 Code, § 60-71)  Penalty, see §
132.99
Statutory reference:
   Authority of city to regulate or prohibit the use of firearms, see Tex.
Local Government Code § 342.003(a)(8)
§ 132.02  CARRYING FIREARMS ON CITY PREMISES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING. The same meaning that it has in Tex. Penal Code Ch. 30.
      CITY PREMISES. A building or any portion of a structure owned, leased,
occupied or controlled by the city. CITY PREMISES include, but are not limited
to, the City Hall, civic center, fire department, municipal service compound,
police and courts building, the armory building, the municipal water and sewer
distribution, treatment and storage facilities and the municipal swimming pool.
CITY PREMISES do not include streets, sidewalks or open public parks or green
spaces owned or operated by the city.
      ENTER or ENTRY. The intrusion of the entire body.
      FIREARM. A gun, pistol, rifle or any other device designed, made or
adapted to expel a projectile through a barrel by using explosive energy
generated by an explosion or burning substance or any device readily
convertible to that use.
      NOTICE. The same meaning that it has in Tex. Penal Code § 30.05.
   (B)   Firearms unlawful.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, a person carrying a firearm,
whether the firearm is concealed or unconcealed, may not enter or remain upon
city premises.
      (2)   The City Secretary shall direct city staff to:
         (a)   Provide notice at all city premises that entry is forbidden to
anyone carrying a firearm; and
         (b)   Provide notice to depart to anyone found carrying a firearm not
permitted by this section on city premises.
      (3)   Signs posted as notice under division (B)(2)(a) above shall include
a statement in English and Spanish giving notice that firearms are prohibited.
      (4)   This section does not apply to a peace officer or a commissioned
security officer hired by or under contract with the city and acting within the
scope of that employment, or to a peace officer of another unit of government
lawfully acting within the scope of the peace officer’s duties.
      (5)   A person may carry a firearm on the premises of the airport for the
purposes of shipping the firearm by air or receiving a shipment of the firearm,
subject to such restrictions as the City Secretary or his or her designee may
require, and in compliance with applicable federal regulations.
(2012 Code, § 60-72)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §
132.02(B)(1) of this chapter is a misdemeanor offense and, upon conviction, is
subject to the general penalty as provided by §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   The failure to depart from city premises after notice has been
given to depart under §
132.02(B)(2) of this chapter is an offense subject to prosecution for criminal
trespass under Tex. Penal Code § 30.05.
(2012 Code, § 60-72)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SIGNS
      
152.   FENCES
      
153.   AIRPORTS
      
154.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
      
155.   RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
      
156.   VACANT PROPERTY
      
157.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
158.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
159.   ZONING
      
160.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Installations in developments
   
150.02   Display of building number
   
150.03   Butane, propane and other liquified petroleum gases
Adoption of Codes
   
150.15   Building Code
   
150.16   Plumbing Code
   
150.17   Electrical Code; Electrical Inspector
Moving Oversized Structures
   
150.30   Permit required
   
150.31   Application
   
150.32   Fee
   
150.33   Applicant’s indemnity agreement
   
150.34   Permit issuance
   
150.35   Exemptions
Dangerous and Unsafe Buildings
   
150.50   Definitions
   
150.51   Scope
   
150.52   Purpose
   
150.53   Prohibited acts
   
150.54   Unsafe buildings described
   
150.55   Inspection and initial notice
   
150.56   Public hearing through notice or orders
   
150.57   Failure to comply with order; lien
   
150.58   Guidelines for remedial action
   
150.59   Statutory requirements
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipalities to establish building lines, see Tex. Local
Government Code Ch. 213
   Designation of fire limits, removal or destruction of structures, see     
Tex. Local Government Code § 342.012
   Fire escapes, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 791.001 et seq.
   Municipal regulation of structures, see Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 214
   Trench excavation safety, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 756.021 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  INSTALLATIONS IN DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   It will be the developer’s responsibility to install water, sewer,
curb and streets in any development or non-existing streets.
   (B)   The city’s only responsibility will be to furnish the main line to the
undeveloped property line.
   (C)   A certificate of occupancy will not be issued to any home owners or
contractors until all developer’s responsibilities are met.
(2012 Code, § 18-1)
§ 150.02  DISPLAY OF BUILDING NUMBER.
   (A)   The owner of a lot or tract of land on which one or more buildings or
structures have been located shall obtain and place the assigned building
number (street address number) on the property in an acceptable location
clearly visible and legible from the street.
   (B)   The street address number shall be placed facing the street on which
the structure is addressed.
   (C)   Acceptable locations for the street address number include on the
building or structure itself, on or at the curb, on a curbside mailbox,
curbside sign or other permanent structures. Each primary building shall be
separately identified with an assigned number.
   (D)   The number shall be Arabic numerals not less than three inches in
height reflective or in colors that contrast with the principal building or
structure as to be easily identifiable located so that emergency personnel can
easily read and identify the address enumeration.
   (E)   On all new construction, the street address numbers shall be properly
posted by the earlier of either the issuance of the certificate of occupancy or
the occupancy of the structure.
   (F)   Each building or unit in a mobile home park, apartment complex or
multi-building commercial complex shall have posted on it its individual street
address number including, as applicable, that building’s or unit’s sub-address.
   (G)   Address number changes may be requested by the general public or by
city staff. The City Administrator, or his or her designee, shall review the
proposed address number change to ensure that it conforms with existing
numbering and established policies and then shall either approve, deny or
modify such request in writing.
(2012 Code, § 18-2)  (Ord. 080701, passed - -2008)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03  BUTANE, PROPANE AND OTHER LIQUIFIED PETROLEUM GASES.
   (A)   Statutory requirements. The installation and use of butane, propane or
other liquefied petroleum gas is subject to requirements of the applicable
codes and ordinances of the city and state, including the International Fire
Code, the International Fuel Gas Code and the International Plumbing Code.
(2012 Code, § 18-251)
   (B)   City requirements. No residence shall be furnished with butane,
propane or other liquefied petroleum gas for residential use where natural gas
service from a franchised utility is available within 100 feet to serve the
structure through the extension of existing gas mains.
(2012 Code, § 18-252)
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   Storage tanks for butane, propane or other liquefied petroleum gas
for residential uses shall not be located within ten feet of any structure,
property line, electrical service or electrical outlet.
      (2)   Replenishment cannot be made from a public street, so the tank must
be located within 75 feet of a paved or highly compacted surface driveway.
Underground tanks are allowed; provided, they are installed to applicable
regulations.
      (3)   Storage tanks must be located or shielded so as not to be visible
from public streets adjacent to the residence.
(2012 Code, § 18-253) Penalty, see §
150.99
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 150.15  BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Adoption of codes.
      (1)   The 2015 International Building Code, 2015 International
Residential Code, 2015 International Mechanical Code, 2015 International
Plumbing Code and the 2014 National Electrical Code (NEC) are hereby
established as the respective official building codes for the city.
      (2)   The city takes no official position regarding rules and regulations
affecting licensing requirements for building trades and inspections.
      (3)   The city will not involve itself in enforcement of any such rules
and regulations beyond those expressly required of municipalities by the state.
      (4)   The city reserves the right, established under law, to amend any
part or parts of these codes and to provide variances as it deems appropriate.
(2012 Code, § 18-37)
   (B)   Fire limits established. The fire limits of the city are established
as provided by the Council.
(2012 Code, § 18-38)
   (C)   Inspection of work. The Building Official shall inspect, as often as
practical, construction in progress pursuant to a permit issued under this
section to see that all provisions of this section are being complied with.
(2012 Code, § 18-39)
(Ord. 151201, passed 2015)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16  PLUMBING CODE.
   The 2015 International Plumbing Code, as amended herein, is adopted by
reference as the Plumbing Code for the city.
(2012 Code, § 18-71)  (Ord. 060904, passed - -2006)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17  ELECTRICAL CODE; ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Electric Code. The 2014 National Electric Code, as amended herein, is
adopted by reference as the Electric Code for the city.
      (1)   Definitions.ELECTRICAL WIRING AND APPARATUS includes all material,
devices, machinery, appliances or conductors used in connection with the
supplying of electrical energy for lights, heat or power or the transmission of
electrical signals.
(2012 Code, § 18-106)
      (2)   Application. The provisions of this section shall be applicable to
all electrical work and electrical wiring and apparatus done, performed or
installed within the city from and after 1-7-1966, only in connection with:
         (a)   All new construction; and
         (b)   All electrical work and wiring requiring an additional circuit
or circuits in conjunction with additions or alterations to existing buildings.
(2012 Code, § 18-107)
      (3)   Installation standards generally.
         (a)   The 2014 National Electrical Code, as amended, of rules,
regulations and requirements for the installation of electrical wiring and
apparatus is adopted as a standard for the installation of all electrical
wiring, apparatus and fixtures, except as otherwise specifically provided in
this section; and such code is made a part of this section as fully as though
copied in this section in full.
         (b)   All electrical installation and construction, all material and
all apparatus used in connection with electrical work, and the operation of all
electrical apparatus shall be in conformity with the rules, regulations and
requirements of the National Electrical Code and division (A)(7) below.
(2012 Code, § 18-108)
      (4)   Work permit.
         (a)   Application; fee. It shall be unlawful for any person to
commence the installation or alteration of any electrical work, wiring or
apparatus for use in connection with electric light, heating or power, either
outside or inside of any building, within the city, without first making
application in writing, in person or through a duly authorized agent, at the
city office, on forms furnished by the Electrical Inspector or City Secretary,
for a permit for such installation or alteration of electrical wiring and
apparatus. Such application shall contain such description, by street and
number or by lot and block number, as may be necessary to identify the location
of the work to be done. A permit fee for new construction and for work in
conjunction with additions or alterations to existing buildings, which shall be
as established by the Council, shall be paid by the applicant before a permit
shall be issued. All such permit fees shall be disposed of as the City Council
may direct.
         (b)   Applicant’s bond. No permit for electrical work shall be issued
unless the person applying for the permit shall have on file with the City
Secretary a good, valid and effective bond in the penal sum of $1,000, payable
to the city, conditioned upon compliance with this section, regulating
electrical wiring and apparatus and the faithful performance of any contract
entered into for the installation of electrical wiring and apparatus for use in
connection with electric light, heating or power. Such bond shall be executed
by such applicant and by a responsible surety company authorized to do a surety
business in the state, and such bond shall be approved by the City Secretary.
Such bond may be an annual electrician’s bond posted and filed by the
permittee, bonding the permittee as for all such electrical work during its
effective period. Any person making application for a permit for electrical
work to be done by such applicant in person on his or her personal residence or
improvements to be used as his or her personal residence shall not be required
to post or file such bond, but shall be required to obtain such permit and
inspections of such work as provided in this section.
         (c)   Issuance. Upon application being made and the permit fee paid as
provided for in division (A)(4)(a) above, and subject to the provisions of
divisions (A)(4)(b) above and (A)(4)(d) below, the Electrical Inspector or City
Secretary shall issue a permit for the installation or alteration of any
electrical work.
         (d)   Violations. Any failure on the part of a permittee to comply
with the provisions of this section regulating electrical wiring and apparatus
or to faithfully carry out the conditions of a contract for installing electric
wiring and apparatus shall be deemed sufficient cause for the forfeiture of the
permittee’s bond by action of the City Council, by order entered to such effect
after hearing, upon the recommendation of the Electrical Inspector. The amount
realized upon the forfeiture of any bond over and above the expense involved in
its forfeiture shall be expended in making the necessary changes in the
electric wiring and apparatus found to be contrary to the provisions of this
section or deficient in quality or other particulars as specified in the
contract or contracts entered into and covered by the bond; and the unused
balance, if any, shall be paid into the city treasury, to be used for such
purposes as the City Council may direct.
(2012 Code, § 18-109)
      (5)   Inspection of new work.
         (a)   Upon the issuance of a permit under this section, the Electrical
Inspector shall carefully inspect such work during and after its completion. If
such electrical work or electrical wiring and apparatus is proved to be
performed, furnished or installed in accordance with all rules and requirements
governing the work, the Electrical Inspector shall issue a certificate
approving the work.
         (b)   Application for electrical inspection must be made at the city
office in the forenoon, if desired in the afternoon of the same day, or in the
afternoon, if inspection is desired in the forenoon of the next regular working
day. Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall not be considered as working days.
There shall be two inspections on all work, both provided for by the original
permit granted. One inspection shall be made when roughing-in is completed and
the second inspection shall be made upon the completion of the work.
         (c)   Inspection fees shall be as established by the Council. If
additional inspections are required at the discretion of the Electrical
Inspector because of a defect or deficiency in the work or apparatus at the
time inspected, on either the first or second inspection, or for any other good
cause, an inspection fee, which shall be as established by the Council, shall
be charged the permittee and paid by him or her to the city for each such
inspection in excess of the two regular inspections provided for in division
(A)(5)(b) above. All such inspection fees shall be disposed of as the City
Council may direct.
         (d)   Upon the completion of the installation of electric wires and
apparatus in any building for use in connection with electric light, heat or
power, it shall be the duty of the person doing the work to notify the
Electrical Inspector, who shall at once inspect the work and, if approved by
him or her, he or she shall issue a certificate of satisfactory inspection
which shall contain the date of inspection and outline of the results of such
examination. No certificate shall be issued unless all connected electrical
wiring and apparatus are in strict conformity with the rules and regulations
set forth in this section, nor shall current be turned on any wiring and
apparatus until a certificate of satisfactory inspection is issued.
(2012 Code, § 18-110)
      (6)   Concealing work without permission. No person shall conceal or
cause to be concealed any electrical wiring or apparatus mentioned in this
section, except with the express permission of the Electrical Inspector; and he
or she is authorized and directed to require the removal of any flooring,
lathing or plaster, sheet metal or other material which may conceal any
electrical wiring or apparatus contrary to the provisions of this section. On
completion of the inspection of any electrical wiring or apparatus designed to
be concealed and found to be in full compliance with the provisions of this
section, it shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to post a notice to
that effect at the main cut-out center, which shall be considered as an express
permission to conceal the electrical wiring and apparatus; but no concealment
shall take place until such notice has been posted by the Electrical Inspector.
(2012 Code, § 18-111)
      (7)   Miscellaneous specifications.
         (a)   The miscellaneous specifications set forth in this section shall
apply in governing electrical work in the city, whether or not specifically
covered in the National Electrical Code, and whether or not in conflict with
any provision of such code.
         (b)   No conductor supplying electricity for lighting or appliances
shall be smaller than AWG wire size #12.
         (c)   Not more than eight light outlets shall be installed on one
circuit, and not more than six receptacle outlets shall be installed on one
circuit. In case of lighting and receptacle openings on the same circuit, such
circuit shall not have more than six openings.
         (d)   Size #14 AWG wire may be used on switch legs where the light
outlets are singly switched. In case of one switch being used to turn on more
than one light simultaneously, no wire smaller than AWG #12 shall be used.
         (e)   A kitchen appliance circuit shall be a separate circuit fused
not to exceed 20 amperes, and no adjoining room outlets shall be made a part of
the circuit.
         (f)   No electrical wire shall be fused above the allowable current-
carrying capacity of insulated conductors in amperes as specified in the
National Electrical Code.
         (g)   All exposed wiring in buildings other than private residences
shall be enclosed in conduit or electric metallic tubing. In such cases, all
exposed wiring from floor level to seven feet above floor level shall be
enclosed in rigid conduit, and all exposed wiring seven feet from floor level
and above may be enclosed in metallic tubing where adaptable and suitable.
         (h)   In cases of installation in construction of new buildings, the
multibreaker or fuse box shall be of a size sufficient to leave a minimum of
four spare circuits upon completion. Pull wires must be installed through
separate or individual holes in both the multibreaker or fuse box enclosure and
the ceiling plate, continuous from the inside of the enclosure to an accessible
place in the attic (provided, such building has an attic).
         (i)   All wires entering a multibreaker or fuse box enclosure or
junction box must be clamped at the entering point by means of box connectors,
either separate clamps or box clamp provided.
         (j)   No wire shall be spliced in any other place than in a junction
box.
         (k)   All joints must be soldered or approved compression fittings
used and taped on rough-in jobs, and fixture leads must be soldered or a
National Electrical Code approved fixture connector used.
         (l)   Service entrance conductors shall have sufficient current-
carrying capacity to adequately carry the load; however, no service entrance
conductor shall be smaller than AWG wire size #6, except for installations
requiring not more than two branch circuits not in excess of 15 amperes each.
         (m)   Non-metallic sheathed cable shall be firmly secured by approved
staples or fittings at intervals not exceeding four and one-half feet and
within 12 inches from every outlet; except that, in concealed work where such
supporting is impracticable the cable may be fished from outlet to outlet.
(2012 Code, § 18-112)
      (8)   Service entrance clearance.
         (a)   All electric service entrance on buildings or structures in the
city shall be located so as to provide a minimum clearance of eight feet above
the ground at the service entrance fitting or weather head, where electric
service wires are attached.
         (b)   No person shall locate such entrance fittings or weather heads
at distances lower than eight feet above the ground, and persons furnishing
electric service in the city are prohibited from attaching electric service
wires to buildings or structures at points lower than 12 feet measured from the
ground to overhead wires.
(2012 Code, § 18-113)
      (9)   Wires not to interfere with Fire Department or obstruct fire
escapes. No electric wire shall be installed, operated or maintained over any
street, alley, sidewalk or building which shall be liable to seriously
interfere with the work of the Fire Department in the use of ladders or other
apparatus, or which shall obstruct or render hazardous the use of fire escapes;
and, on complaint of the Fire Chief, such wires interfering or hazardous wires
shall be removed or properly rearranged.
(2012 Code, § 18-114)
      (10)   Location of gas pipe near electric wires. Any person desiring to
place any gas pipe within six inches of any electric wire installed for use in
connection with electric light, heat or power shall, before proceeding with the
execution of the work, obtain from the Electrical Inspector permission for such
work; and, on completion of such work, such person shall notify the Electrical
Inspector, who shall inspect the work and cause all wires to be placed in a
safe and secure condition.
(2012 Code, § 18-115)
      (11)   Section does not affect liability for damages. This section shall
not be construed to relieve from or lessen the responsibility of any person
installing, operating or controlling any electrical wiring or apparatus for
damage to anyone injured by such work; nor shall the city be held or regarded
as assuming any liability by reason of the inspection authorized in this
section or certificate or permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this
section.
(2012 Code, § 18-116)
   (B)   Electrical Inspector.
      (1)   Office created; appointment; qualifications; records and reports.
         (a)   The office of Electrical Inspector in and for the city is
created and established; and such office shall be filled by appointment of the
City Administrator.
         (b)   The Electrical Inspector shall be well versed in the rules,
regulations and requirements of the National Electrical Code.
         (c)   The Electrical Inspector shall keep a complete record of all
permits issued, bonds filed under this section, inspections made and other
official work performed by him or her as required by this section, and shall
make such reports to the City Council as the Council shall direct.
(2012 Code, § 18-141)
      (2)   Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector to
enforce the provisions of this section or any ordinance which may be adopted
concerning electric wiring or apparatus.
(2012 Code, § 18-142)
      (3)   Right of entry. The Electrical Inspector shall have the right,
during reasonable hours, to enter any building in the discharge of his or her
official duties or for the purpose of making any test or inspection of the
electrical wiring and apparatus contained in such building; and, for that
purpose, he or she shall be given prompt access to all buildings, private or
public, on application to the company or individual owning or in charge or
control of the building.
(2012 Code, § 18-143)
      (4)   Questions not provided for. The Electrical Inspector shall decide
all questions not provided for in this section pertaining to the installation,
operation or maintenance of electric wiring and apparatus.
(2012 Code, § 18-144)
      (5)   Interference. No person shall interfere with the Electrical
Inspector while in the performance of his or her duty and each interference
shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense within the intent and meaning
of this section.
(2012 Code, § 18-145)
(Ord. 060904, passed - -2006)  Penalty, see §
150.99
MOVING OVERSIZED STRUCTURES
§ 150.30  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to move over, along and upon any street,
alley or other public place in the city any structure or part of a structure
which, separately or in combination with the towing vehicle, is in excess of
the legal height, length or width provided for state or county highways by the
laws of the state, without first obtaining a city permit to do so.
(2012 Code, § 18-181)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.31  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a permit required by this subchapter shall be in
writing, filed with the City Secretary, and shall contain the following:
      (1)   The nature or general character of the structure;
      (2)   Its overall length, width and height;
      (3)   The make and model of the towing vehicle;
      (4)   The length and width of the towing vehicle;
      (5)   The overall length and width of the combined structure and the
towing vehicle;
      (6)   The overall height of the structure and its vehicular support; and
      (7)   The streets, alleys or other public places over which such
structure is to be moved, indicating the point of origin and destination.
   (B)   Such application shall be dated and signed by the applicant or in his
or her behalf by a duly authorized agent.
   (C)   A special application is required for moving homes into the city.
   (D)   This section does not apply to oversized structures being moved
through the city on State Highway 6 and/or Farm Road 219.
(2012 Code, § 18-182)
§ 150.32  FEE.
   (A)   The fee for a permit required by this subchapter shall be as
established by the Council.
   (B)   Such fee shall be paid in cash or by cashiers or certified check or
postal or express money order at the time the application for the permit is
filed.
(2012 Code, § 18-183)
§ 150.33  APPLICANT’S INDEMNITY AGREEMENT.
   Each application for a permit under this subchapter shall be accompanied by
an indemnity agreement signed by the applicant or, in his or her behalf, by a
duly authorized agent, whereby the applicant agrees, without reservation, to
reimburse the city for any and all damage to streets and public property
occasioned by, connected with or growing out of the transportation of the
structure.
(2012 Code, § 18-184)
§ 150.34  PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   A permit required by this subchapter shall be issued by the City Secretary
after all requirements of this subchapter are met.
(2012 Code, § 18-185)
§ 150.35  EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall be subject to the provisions of all applicable laws of
the state, including, without limitation, Tex. Transportation Code Chs. 621
through 623; and no fee or permit shall be required for movements of oversize
structures if state law prohibits a municipal fee or permit.
(2012 Code, § 18-186)
DANGEROUS AND UNSAFE BUILDINGS
§ 150.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Includes all or any part of a building or structure.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Official, as appointed by the City
Administrator from time to time, or the official’s designated representative.
(2012 Code, § 18-221)
§ 150.51  SCOPE.
   This subchapter applies equally to all buildings, regardless of the date of
their construction.
(2012 Code, § 18-222)
§ 150.52  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is remedial in purpose and shall be construed to secure the
prevention and abatement of hazards incident to the construction, alteration,
repair, removal, use and maintenance of buildings.
(2012 Code, § 18-223)
§ 150.53  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for the owner of a building to maintain the building in
a manner that allows the building to become or remain an unsafe building.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to remove any form of unsafe building
notice attached to a building by the Building Official.
(2012 Code, § 18-224)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.54  UNSAFE BUILDINGS DESCRIBED.
   If a building fails to meet the following minimum standards for continued
use and occupancy, it is considered an UNSAFE BUILDING, and whenever the term
is used in this subchapter, it means:
   (A)   The building is dilapidated, substandard or unfit for human habitation
and a hazard to the public health, safety and welfare, more specifically
defined as follows:
      (1)   The foundation or the vertical or horizontal supporting members are
damaged or deteriorated to the extent that the building may collapse from its
own weight or from the effects of wind, rain or other natural forces;
      (2)   The exterior roof, walls or flooring is damaged, dilapidated or
decayed to the extent that the elements and vermin are not sealed out from the
building’s occupants or contents;
      (3)   The means of egress are manifestly unsafe or unusable;
      (4)   Any part of the building is so attached that, from its own weight
or from the effects of wind, rain or other natural forces, it may fall and
injure occupants of the building, other persons or other property;
      (5)   The condition of the electrical, gas, mechanical or plumbing system
serving the building poses a manifest hazard to the building’s occupants, other
persons or other property; or
      (6)   The building has been damaged by fire, wind, water, vandalism or
other causes to the extent that it poses a hazard to the occupants of the
building, other persons or other property.
   (B)   (1)   Regardless of its structural condition, if the building is
unoccupied by its owner, lessee or other invitees and is unsecured from
unauthorized entry to the extent that it could be entered or used by vagrants
or other uninvited persons as a place of harborage or could be entered or used
by children; or
      (2)   If the building is boarded up, fenced or otherwise secured in any
manner, but:
         (a)   The building constitutes a danger to the public even though
secured from entry; or
         (b)   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building in the manner described by this
division (B)(2).
(2012 Code, § 18-225)
Statutory reference:
   Substandard buildings, see Tex. Local Government Code § 214.001
§ 150.55  INSPECTION AND INITIAL NOTICE.
   (A)   The Building Official shall respond to all complaints that a building
is in violation of this subchapter by inspecting the building.
   (B)   After initially determining that a building is unsafe, the Building
Official shall issue an initial notice of unsafe building to the owner of an
interest in the building. The city will use its best efforts to determine the
identity and address of any owner, lienholder or mortgagee of the building
through a search of the following records:
      (1)   County real property records;
      (2)   Appraisal district records;
      (3)   Records of the Secretary of State;
      (4)   Assumed name records;
      (5)   Tax records of the city; and
      (6)   Utility records of the city.
   (C)   An initial notice of unsafe building will contain the following
information:
      (1)   The street address of the building;
      (2)   A description of the conditions that make the building an unsafe
building;
      (3)   A request that the building be vacated within ten days if it is
occupied and cannot be repaired within that time;
      (4)   A request that the owner obtain a permit within ten days for the
repair or demolition of the building; and
      (5)   A statement that the owner may request a public hearing on whether
the building is unsafe by submitting a written request to the Building Official
within ten days.
   (D)   (1)   The initial notice will be given to the owner in one of the
following ways:
         (a)   By personally serving the owner with a copy; or
         (b)   By certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the
owner at the owner’s post office address.
      (2)   If personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office
address is unknown:
         (a)   By publishing the notice at least twice within a ten-day period
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the building is
located; or
         (b)   By posting the notice on or near the front door of the building.
(2012 Code, § 18-226)  (Ord. 150201, passed 2-10-2015)
§ 150.56  PUBLIC HEARING THROUGH NOTICE OR ORDERS.
   (A)   (1)   If the owner of a building fails to comply with a request in an
initial notice to vacate or obtain a permit for a building under this
subchapter, the Building Official may schedule a public hearing on the building
or pursue other enforcement action regarding the building. If the owner of a
building responds to an initial notice by requesting a public hearing, the
Building Official shall schedule a public hearing on the building no later than
the thirtieth day following receipt of the request.
      (2)   Notice of a public hearing shall be given to the owner of the
building and to each mortgagee and lien holder having an interest in the
building or in the property on which the building is located, in a manner
described in §
150.55(D) of this chapter.
      (3)   The notice will contain the following:
         (a)   The street address of the building;
         (b)   A description of the conditions that make the building an unsafe
building;
         (c)   A statement that the issues at the hearing shall be whether the
building is an unsafe building and, if so, whether the building should be
vacated, secured, repaired or demolished and, if so, within what time periods
these activities should be completed;
         (d)   A statement that if the building is not vacated, secured,
repaired or demolished in accordance with an order entered after the hearing,
the city may vacate, secure, repair or demolish the building and assess a lien
for expenses incurred; and
         (e)   A statement that the owner, lien holder or mortgagee shall be
required to submit, at the hearing, proof of the scope of any work that may be
required to comply with this subchapter and the time it will take to reasonably
perform the work.
      (4)   The city may file notice of the hearing in the official public
records of real property in the county in which the property is located. The
filing of the notice is binding on subsequent grantees, lien holders or other
transferees of interest in the property, who acquire the interest after the
filing of the notice, and constitutes notice of the hearing. The notice must
contain the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the owner of the affected property, if that
information can be determined from a reasonable search of the instruments on
file in the County Clerk’s office;
         (b)   A legal description of the affected property; and
         (c)   A description of the hearing.
(2012 Code, § 18-227)
   (B)   (1)   Public hearings under this subchapter shall be held before a
Municipal Court Judge.
      (2)   The issues at a hearing shall be limited to those described in
division (A) above. The Building Official, the owner and any mortgagee or lien
holder of the building and other interested persons may address these issues at
the hearing.
      (3)   Disputed fact issues shall be determined by a preponderance of the
evidence.
      (4)   If a building is found to be an unsafe building, the Judge shall
order that the building be vacated, secured, repaired or demolished.
      (5)   The Judge shall require the owner, lien holder or mortgagee of the
building to, within 30 days:
         (a)   Secure the building from unauthorized entry; or
         (b)   Repair, remove or demolish the building, unless the owner or
lien holder establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
performed within 30 days.
      (6)   If the Judge allows the owner, lien holder or mortgagee more than
30 days to repair, remove or demolish the building, the Judge shall establish
specific time schedules for the commencement and performance of the work and
shall require the owner, lien holder or mortgagee to secure the property in a
reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the work is being performed.
      (7)   The Judge may not allow the owner, lien holder or mortgagee more
than 90 days to repair, remove or demolish the building or fully perform all
work required to comply with the order unless the owner, lien holder or
mortgagee:
         (a)   Submits a detailed plan and time schedule for the work at the
hearing; and
         (b)   Establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
completed within 90 days because of the scope and complexity of the work.
      (8)   If the Judge allows the owner, lien holder or mortgagee more than
90 days to complete any part of the work required to repair, remove or demolish
the building, the Judge shall require the owner, lien holder or mortgagee to
regularly submit progress reports to the city to demonstrate that the owner,
lien holder or mortgagee has complied with the time schedules established for
commencement and performance of the work. The order may require that the owner,
lien holder or mortgagee appear before the Municipal Court Judge or the Judge’s
designee.
      (9)   A copy of the order will be given to the owner and any lien holder
or mortgagee of record of the property in a manner described in §
150.55(D) of this chapter.
      (10)   Within ten days after the date the order is issued, the city will:
         (a)   File a copy of the order in the City Secretary’s office; and
         (b)   Publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the city a
notice containing:
            1.   The street address or legal description of the property;
            2.   The date of the hearing;
            3.   A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and
            4.   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
(2012 Code, § 18-228)
§ 150.57  FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER; LIEN.
   (A)   If any part of an order issued under §
150.56 of this chapter is not complied with by the owner or by any mortgagee or
lien holder, the Building Official may cause the ordered remedial action to be
taken.
   (B)   Any repairs caused by the Building Official shall be limited to the
removal or correction of hazardous conditions and the securing of the building
against unauthorized entry.
   (C)   The Building Official shall certify the amount of the city’s expenses,
and costs of the Municipal Court, for remedial action to the City Treasurer for
billing to the owner.
   (D)   (1)   The City Treasurer may assess the expenses as a lien against the
property on which the building is or was located, on a form approved by the
City Attorney.
      (2)   The lien is a privileged lien, subordinate only to tax liens.
(2012 Code, § 18-229)
§ 150.58  GUIDELINES FOR REMEDIAL ACTION.
   (A)   The criteria within this section are guidelines for the Municipal
Court Judge to use in determining the remedial action to be ordered for an
unsafe building.
   (B)   If the condition of a building poses a manifest hazard to the
occupants of the building, it shall be vacated.
   (C)   If the cost of repairing an unsafe building to meet all applicable
standards equals or exceeds the value of the building, the building shall be
demolished.
   (D)   If the cost of repairing an unsafe building to meet all applicable
standards is less than the value of the building, the building shall be
repaired or demolished.
   (E)   If an unsafe building is to be repaired and is vacant, it shall be
secured against unauthorized entry.
(2012 Code, § 18-230)
§ 150.59  STATUTORY REQUIREMENTS.
   In the administration of this subchapter, the city shall comply with the
requirements of Tex. Local Government Code § 214.001.
(2012 Code, § 18-231)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of §
150.02 of this chapter is a misdemeanor and is punishable as permitted by this
code of ordinance, as it may be amended from time to time. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation of §
150.02 of this chapter occurs or continues to occur.
(2012 Code, § 18-2)
   (C)   Each violation of the Building Code, as set out in §
150.15 of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor offense, punishable by a fine;
and each day in which a violation occurs or continues shall be a separate
offense.
(2012 Code, § 18-37)
   (D)   Each violation of the Plumbing Code, as set out in §
150.16 of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor offense, punishable by a fine;
and each day in which a violation occurs or continues shall be a separate
offense.
(2012 Code, § 18-71)
(Ord. 060904, passed - -2006; Ord. 080701, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 151:  SIGNS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose and objectives
   
151.02   Jurisdiction
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Administration and enforcement
   
151.05   Exempt signs
   
151.06   Permitted signs
   
151.07   Prohibited signs
   
151.08   Authority of city to remove signs
   
151.09   Existing signs
   
151.10   Variance procedure
   
151.11   Allowable signs
   
151.12   Public nuisances; correction of illegal and dangerous signs
   
151.13   Signs in Downtown Historic District
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01  PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide clear regulations for the
permitting, construction, location, erection, modification, use, maintenance
and removal of signs in the city and its extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ).
The objectives are: to encourage the effective use of signs as a means of
communication in the city; to maintain and enhance the community’s overall
aesthetic environment and the city’s ability to attract sources of economic
development and growth; to improve pedestrian and traffic safety; to minimize
the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby public and private property; and
to enable the fair and consistent enforcement of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 18-200)
§ 151.02  JURISDICTION.
   This chapter shall be applied to all areas within the corporate limits of
the city and those areas within the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ)
where allowed by law.
(2012 Code, § 18-201)
§ 151.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign that advertises or announces a business or service
that has been closed for 180 days or more, or the structural supports of a sign
with the advertising face or copy removed for 180 days or more.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses mechanical movement or change of lighting
to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
   ATTACHED/BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as
contrasted to a freestanding/detached sign.
   BANNER. A sign intended to be hung either with or without frames, made of
paper, plastic or fabric of any kind, and which may possess colors, characters,
letters, illustrations or ornamentations. Flags of governmental jurisdictions
and flags carrying the emblem of a business or institution are not to be
considered a BANNER for the purposes of this chapter.
   COMMUNITY SERVICE (PUBLIC SERVICE). A sign which solicits support for or
advertises a non-profit community use, public use or social institution. Such
signs may include, but shall not be limited to, seasonal holidays such as
Christmas or Easter, school activities, charitable programs, religious
activities or events of community interest.
   CONTROLLED INGRESS/EGRESS. Clearly defined access lanes directing traffic
into or out of a non-residential parking lot onto the public streets at
specific points. This is accomplished by striping and directional arrows,
curbing, barriers and the like in such a way as to preclude ingress/egress from
any other point.
   DAMAGED SIGN. A sign which is unsafe, unsecured, disfigured or broken.
   DETACHED SIGN/FREESTANDING SIGN/POLE SIGN. Any sign connected to the ground
which is not an attached sign, inclusive of signs on movable objects, except
signs on vehicles which are moving or are parked only temporarily, incidental
to their principal use for transportation.
   FLASHING SIGN. A sign with flashing, blinking or moving lights, regardless
of wattage, whether directly or indirectly illuminated, except for time and
temperature signs. This shall include a sign which makes use of traveling
lights or traveling lighted messages or flashing lights.
   GARAGE SALE. A private sale of personal property used to dispose of personal
household possessions; not for the use of any commercial venture.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. Any sign existing on the date of the adoption of the
applicable ordinance from which this section was derived or amended and that
does not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE. The area of unobstructed view required at every street
intersection and at the intersection of driveways or alleys and streets. The
SIGHT TRIANGLE is defined by the intersection of the curb lines at a traffic
intersection with the hypotenuse connecting at points 20 feet therefrom.
   SIGN. An outdoor structure, sign, display, light device, figure, plaque,
poster, mural or other thing that is designed, intended or used to advertise or
inform.
   STREAMER. Any light weight plastic, fabric or other material suspended from
a rope, wire or string, usually in series, designed to move in the wind.
   STREET BANNER. Any temporary sign hung over or across a city street or other
public right-of- way.
   TEMPORARY SIGN/PORTABLE SIGN. A detached sign designed or constructed to be
easily moved from one location to another, including signs mounted upon or
designed to be mounted upon a trailer, wheeled carrier or other non-motorized
mobile structure; signs converted to A-frames or T-frames; sandwich board
signs; balloons used as signs or inflated signs; and signs attached to or
painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless
such vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business. A
PORTABLE SIGN which has its wheels removed shall still be considered a portable
sign under this chapter. TEMPORARY SIGNS which are mounted on poles or other
supporting structures shall still be classified as temporary.
(2012 Code, § 18-202)
§ 151.04  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Building Code Inspector and the Chief of Police of the city.
(2012 Code, § 18-203)
§ 151.05  EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be exempt from any regulation under this section:
   (A)   Any public notice or warning required by any federal, state or local
law, regulation or ordinance;
   (B)   Traffic-control signs on private property, such as stop, yield and
similar signs, the face of which meet State Department of Transportation
standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort;
   (C)   Government signs erected by the city, county, state or federal
government in the furtherance of their governmental responsibility;
   (D)   Legal notices;
   (E)   Any government-required sign (for example, licensing and the like);
   (F)   Community service or special event signs are allowed; however, they
must conform to all other applicable provisions in this section;
   (G)   Emergency signs;
   (H)   Informational signs of public utility regarding its poles, lines,
pipes or facilities;
   (I)   Emergency warning signs erected by a governmental agency, a public
utility company or a contractor doing authorized or permitted work within the
public right-of-way; and
   (J)   Signs already in place as of the passage date of this chapter, 10-1-
2002, except those which may violate other city ordinances or create a hazard
to the public’s health and safety, or which may have become abandoned.
(2012 Code, § 18-205)
§ 151.06  PERMITTED SIGNS.
   All signs not expressly prohibited under this chapter are hereby permitted,
subject to applicable requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   The placing of political signs on city property, including utility
poles and rights-of-way, is prohibited. The placing of political signs on
private property without the permission of the property owner is prohibited.
The person running for office and/or political party/group placing a political
sign is responsible for compliance with this section;
   (B)   Garage sale-type signs that meet the standards prescribed by the city
ordinance governing such sales are permitted;
   (C)   Banners, such as sale signs, special events and the like, may be
placed in non-residential areas; provided, it is advertising for the property
it is placed on; provided, the banner is not permanent and is displayed intact;
   (D)   Street banners/flags for such as special events, holidays, educational
events and events of public interest, may be placed in non-residential areas by
not-for-profit organizations for no more than 45 consecutive days;
   (E)   Sandwich or A-frame signs, sidewalk or curb signs in the business
districts; and
   (F)   Signs advertising the sale or lease of real estate.
(2012 Code, § 18-206)  (Ord. 191002, passed 10-8-2019)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   Temporary and portable signs, except those allowed in §§
151.06 and
151.13 of this chapter;
   (B)   Signs located within ten feet of the curb or street surface edge on
non-residential property where no controlled ingress/egress exists, unless such
signs are no higher than three feet, six inches above the lowest adjacent
street or driveway grade, as applicable;
   (C)   Signs which project more than 12 inches over a public sidewalk or
other walkway, where allowed, shall not be lower than seven feet above the
adjacent grade if non-electrified, or nine feet if electrified;
   (D)   Any sign which violates or would violate any other applicable law or
ordinance;
   (E)   Any sign which resembles an official traffic-control device or sign,
or which bears the words or symbols customarily used for traffic control;
   (F)   Any sign which incorporates a signal or device that mimics the
emergency or warning lights of an emergency or road maintenance/construction
vehicle or which hides from view any traffic or street sign or any safety
signaling device;
   (G)   Signs in the public right-of-way or on any easement dedicated to
public use, or upon any structure or appurtenance associated with a public
utility or governmental agency;
   (H)   Signs within ten feet of overhead power lines, measured horizontally;
   (I)   Signs which have become potentially dangerous to life or property;
   (J)   Signs which constitute a public nuisance;
   (K)   Signs which are determined, upon inspection, to have been designed or
erected to interfere with advertising signs owned by another; and
   (L)   Electronic signs as defined in Tex. Administrative Code Title 43, Part
1, Ch. 21, Subch. I, Rule § 21.154.
(2012 Code, § 18-207)  (Ord. 080602, passed - -2008; Ord. 191002, passed 10-8-
2019)  Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08  AUTHORITY OF CITY TO REMOVE SIGNS.
   The city may require the removal of any sign for the purposes of bringing
the sign into compliance with this chapter. Such authority is applicable to
signs both in the existing city limits and the extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(2012 Code, § 18-208)
§ 151.09  EXISTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs existing prior to 11-1-2002. All signs in existence prior to 11-
1-2002 that do not conform entirely to the provisions of this chapter are
classified as existing non-conforming signs; provided that, they were not
erected in violation of any ordinance, law or regulation in effect at that
time.
(2012 Code, § 18-209)
   (B)   Existing signs to remain; restrictions.
      (1)   Existing non-conforming signs shall be allowed to remain and to be
maintained in good condition, including the changing of copy, but may not be
structurally altered or enlarged, and shall not be reconstructed, in whole or
in part, or rebuilt, and shall be completely removed if damaged or destroyed to
the extent that the cost of repair exceeds 60% of the cost of erecting a new
sign of the same type at the same location.
      (2)   It shall be the burden of the sign owner to provide verifiable
proof of such costs when requested by the city.
      (3)   Signs that are damaged to the extent that a public nuisance or a
hazard to life or property is created shall be removed or replaced by the owner
in the same manner as any conforming sign, regardless of any special non-
conforming status that would otherwise allow the sign to remain.
(2012 Code, § 18-210)
§ 151.10  VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   Requests for variances from the strict application of the provisions of any
section of this chapter may be sought through the Planning and Zoning
Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission may authorize a variance from
the strict application of any provision in this chapter if the Planning and
Zoning Commission finds the public interests and welfare will be substantially
served by granting such variance; the granting of the variance will not
substantially negatively affect the area surrounding the property for which a
variance is granted; and the variance is the minimum necessary to prevent
unnecessary hardship to the applicant.
(2012 Code, § 18-211)  (Ord. 191002, passed 10-8-2019)
§ 151.11  ALLOWABLE SIGNS.
   (A)   Detached/freestanding/pole signs. Detached signs are allowed in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Building/attached signs. Attached signs are allowed in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Off-premises signs. Off-premises outdoor advertising signs are allowed
subject to the other provisions of this chapter, and shall also be subject to
the regulations promulgated by the state’s Department of Transportation.
(2012 Code, § 18-212)
§ 151.12  PUBLIC NUISANCES; CORRECTION OF ILLEGAL AND DANGEROUS SIGNS.
   (A)   All of the following signs shall be considered a public nuisance:
      (1)   Any sign that constitutes a traffic hazard;
      (2)   Any sign erected in violation of the provisions of this chapter;
      (3)   Any sign that represents a clear and present danger to the health
or safety of the public due to inadequate maintenance, damage or inadequate
structural integrity; and
      (4)   Notification of owner; repair; failure to repair constitutes a
violation; abatement by city; recovery of sign; disposition. Upon written
notification to the owner, the owner’s agent or the occupant of the property
upon which the sign is located that the sign has been deemed a public nuisance,
the owner shall effect necessary repairs or cause the sign to be removed within
ten days of the date of notification.
   (B)   (1)   Failure of the owner to comply within ten days of notification
shall constitute a violation of this chapter, and the city may then correct the
nuisance by causing the repair or removal of the sign.
      (2)   Upon removal of any sign pursuant to this section, the city shall
use reasonable care to preserve such sign.
      (3)   The city shall not be liable for any damages, direct, indirect or
consequential caused by the removal.
      (4)   Within ten days after the removal of any sign, the city shall
attempt to notify the owner, the owner’s agent or the occupant of the premises
upon which the sign was located, either in person or by regular mail, of the
removal action and the location where the sign may be reclaimed.
      (5)   If the owner cannot be readily identified or located, the city may,
at its convenience, publish such notification in the classified section of the
local newspaper.
      (6)   The city need not make any further effort to notify the owner and
may dispose of the sign if not claimed within 90 days.
(2012 Code, § 18-213)
§ 151.13  SIGNS IN DOWNTOWN HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Signs within the Downtown Historic District shall also be subject
to the design guidelines, approval procedures and other requirements of the
city as set forth in this section.
      (2)   A permit is required for all such signs.
      (3)   A permit will only be issued when the conditions outlined in this
section are fulfilled.
      (4)   The Downtown Historic District shall be defined as all properties
within the boundaries up to, but not including, properties fronting State
Highway 6 (Avenue G) to the west, Avenue C to the east, Live Oak Street to the
north and 7th Street to the south.
      (5)   All signs in the Downtown Historic District shall be designed,
constructed and affixed so as to promote and not visually obscure the
significant architectural features of the district, its buildings and the
historic lamp posts.
   (B)   Special restrictions. The following special restrictions shall apply
in the Downtown Historic District in the city.
      (1)   No sign shall be displayed from the parapet or roof of any
building.
      (2)   No sign shall be erected, constructed, placed, attached, located or
displayed unless the sign relates to or advertises a bona fide business
conducted in or on the premises to which the sign adjoins.
      (3)   The light source for exterior illumination shall be a steady light
concealed by a hood or other acceptable method of indirect lighting.
      (4)   Sandwich signs may be placed outside only on days when the business
is open and must be properly anchored or weighted against the wind. The maximum
height of any sandwich sign is 48 inches and a minimum clearance of six feet
must be maintained on the sidewalk for pedestrian access. No other portable
signs are permitted.
      (5)   Awning and canopy signs must be painted or applied flat against the
awning or canopy surface and may not use over 70% of the lineal footage of the
awning or canopy.
      (6)   (a)   Permanent signs painted on glass windows shall cover no more
than 25% of the total glass area of the window upon which they are placed, and
may not contain words or characters greater than 12 inches in height.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (B)(6), the area of any such sign
shall be calculated as the area of an imaginary square or rectangle that
encompasses the entire sign and its graphics.
      (7)   Daylight fluorescence pigmented materials or paints are prohibited.
      (8)   Advertising on planters, trash receptacles, park benches or other
street amenities is prohibited, with the exception of donor plaques.
   (C)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   Signs painted on glass windows, exterior banners and pennant flags,
when placed on a building in connection with special events, promotions and
holidays, are considered temporary and may be placed for a period not to exceed
30 consecutive days.
      (2)   Any such temporary signs shall be removed within ten days of
expiration of the special event, promotion or holiday.
      (3)   Banners may not exceed 30 square feet in area.
      (4)   Temporary signs are excluded from the maximum allowable sign area
per building.
   (D)   Size and number of signs.
      (1)   No building shall have more than two signs per street facade.
      (2)   Buildings with rear public entrances not facing a street may also
have one sign oriented to the rear of the building.
      (3)   The maximum allowable size of all signs affixed to any one building
facade shall be two square feet of sign surface area for each 50 square feet of
building facade surface area; provided, however, that, in no event shall the
maximum allowable sign area per building exceed 90 square feet, nor may any
individual sign have a surface area exceeding 45 square feet.
      (4)   Excluded from the maximum allowable sign area per building are
permanent signs painted on glass, sandwich signs, temporary signs and rear
entrance signs where permitted.
      (5)   For purposes of this section, each side of a sign hung
perpendicular to a building shall be considered separately.
   (E)   Permits; variance procedure.
      (1)   With the exception of real estate signs or other temporary signs,
it shall be unlawful for any person to erect or substantially alter any signage
in any historic district without obtaining the proper permit and/or variance.
      (2)   Application for sign permits and variances within the historic
district shall be made upon
forms provided by the city. Permit, inspection and variance fees shall be the
same as provided for elsewhere in this chapter.
      (3)   The city must first approve all sign permits in any historic
district. Should approval not be granted, the applicant may appeal to the
city’s Planning and Zoning Commission, and then to the City Council, which
shall have the final say in the matter.
      (4)   All requests for a variance from the historic sign requirements
must be submitted in writing to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (F)   Sign maintenance and removal; non-conformance.
      (1)   All signs and all components thereof shall be kept in a good state
of repair.
      (2)   If a business, service or other enterprise shall cease activity or
use of a sign for a period of over ten days, any signs at said location shall
be deemed to be abandoned and the sign owner, business owner or property owner
shall remove any sign identifying or advertising said business or activity or
any product sold thereby within 30 days of such abandonment.
      (3)   Removal shall mean to remove the face of the sign, paint over the
message of the sign in a neat manner or to otherwise remove in a satisfactory
and safe manner the advertising or message contained by said sign.
      (4)   The city or its representative may inspect every new and existing
sign of any type at such intervals as may be required. In the event of a change
or alteration in a sign beyond normal maintenance and upkeep, the entire sign
must be brought into conformance.
(2012 Code, § 18-214)  (Ord. 191002, passed 10-8-2019)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter are punishable according to the provisions
of this chapter which include: whenever in this section of the city, any act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, the
violation shall be punished by a fine.
   (B)   Except where otherwise provided, each day any violation of this
chapter, rule, regulation or order shall continue shall constitute a separate
offense.
(2012 Code, § 18-204)
CHAPTER 152:  FENCES
Section
   
152.01   Prohibition
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Residential fences
   
152.04   Residential subdivision enclosures (including subdivision entry
features)
   
152.05   Non-residential
   
152.06   Office or business park or complex enclosures (including entry
features)
   
152.07   Regulations; types of enclosure
   
152.08   Visibility and safety
   
152.09   Permits
   
152.10   Swimming pool fence required
   
152.11   Maintenance
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No fence, wall or outdoor area enclosure structure may be erected,
placed or altered within the city unless such fence, wall or outdoor area
enclosure is in conformance with the provisions set forth herein. Existing
fences in violation of this chapter may remain, but may not be remodeled,
repaired or replaced, except in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Non-conforming fences that are damaged by accident, fire and/or act of
nature may be temporarily repaired without a permit from the city. Permanent
repairs to non-conforming fences of more than 50% requires compliance with this
chapter.
(2012 Code, § 18-232)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATE ORIENTATION. Created when a structure located on a corner lot is
constructed to face the street frontage not normally associated to be the front
of the lot.
   BARRIER. A fence, wall, building wall or combination thereof that completely
surrounds the swimming pool and obstructs access to the swimming pool.
   CORNER LOT. A lot, tract or parcel which abuts two streets at their
intersection, with the longer street frontage being the side of the lot.
   CORNER ORIENTATION. Created when a structure located on a corner lot is
constructed to face the intersection, diagonally across a lot, rather than a
traditional orientation toward one of the intersecting streets. In cases of
CORNER ORIENTATION, both sides of the lot along the street frontages are to be
treated equally as front yards.
   ELECTRICAL FENCE. An outdoor area enclosure consisting of an electrically
charged or partially charged metallic material designed to discourage crossing
by either human or animal.
   FENCE. An outdoor area enclosure of wood, chain link or other approved
building material serving to enclose, divide or protect an area. FENCES shall
be defined as walls when the average construction thickness exceeds three
inches.
   FRONT BUILDING SETBACK. Minimum required front yard setback as specified
under city zoning ordinances.
   FRONT YARD. The portion of a lot lying between the required front yard
setback(s) and the property line(s) adjacent to the street right-of-way or
access easement.
   INTERIOR LOT. A lot, tract or parcel which is bounded by one or more lots,
tracts or parcels along both sides of the lot lines (not a corner lot).
   KEY LOT. An interior lot, tract or parcel which sides to the rear of one or
more lots, tracts or parcels.
   NON-RESIDENTIALLY ZONED AREAS. Any land within the city zoned for non-
residential uses.
   OFFICE, BUSINESS OR INDUSTRIAL PARK/COMPLEX ENCLOSURE (INCLUDING ENTRY
FEATURES). A wall of masonry or masonry and pressure-treated timber, plaster,
iron or other approved building material serving to enclose or protect an
office, business or industrial park complex. PARK/COMPLEX ENCLOSURES are
limited to application along the perimeters of platted non- residential
subdivisions containing four or more lots.
   OUTDOOR AREA ENCLOSURE. Any fence, wall or structure of various materials
designed to serve as an enclosure of an outdoor area, a barrier or boundary or
to otherwise divide or protect an area.
   PRIVACY/SECURITY ENCLOSURES. Fences, walls or structures located on
individual lots, tracts or parcels for the purpose of enclosing an outdoor area
for privacy or security purposes.
   REAR LOT LINE. The boundary line of any lot, tract or parcel opposite the
front yard of the lot, being the rear property boundary.
   RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION ENCLOSURES (INCLUDING SUBDIVISION ENTRY FEATURES). A
wall of masonry or masonry and pressure-treated timber, plaster, iron or other
approved building material serving to enclose, divide or protect a residential
subdivision. RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION ENCLOSURES are limited to application
along the perimeters of platted residential subdivisions containing ten or more
lots.
   RESIDENTIAL ZONED AREAS. Any land within the city zoned for residential
uses.
   SIDE LOT LINE. The boundary line(s) extending between the front and rear lot
lines of a lot, tract or parcel, being the side property boundaries.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any structure intended for swimming or recreational bathing
that contains water over 24 inches deep. This includes in-ground, aboveground
and on-ground swimming pools, fixed-in-place wading pools, hot tubs and spas.
   WALL. An outdoor area enclosure of masonry, wood, plaster or other approved
building material serving to enclose, divide or protect an area. Fences shall
be defined as WALLS when the average construction thickness exceeds three
inches.
   VISIBILITY TRIANGLE. An area located at the intersection of two streets,
access easements of alleys or any combination thereof where no structure,
growth or object shall exceed two feet in height, created by measuring 25 feet
from the rights-of-way intersection along each right-of-way (ROW).
(2012 Code, § 18-233)
§ 152.03  RESIDENTIAL FENCES.
   In residentially zoned districts, fences, walls and outdoor area enclosure
structures may be erected if in accordance with the following regulations:
   (A)   Privacy/security enclosures;
   (B)   Privacy/security enclosures may be fences or walls, as defined herein;
   (C)   Maximum height shall not exceed six feet without City Council
approval;
   (D)   May be erected upon the rear lot line of any lot; and
   (E)   May be erected upon the side lot lines of any interior lot; however,
no fence may be erected along side lot lines to exceed the required front yard
setback.
(2012 Code, § 18-234)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04  RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION ENCLOSURES (INCLUDING SUBDIVISION ENTRY
FEATURES).
   No residential subdivision enclosures shall be allowed without prior City
Council approval.
(2012 Code, § 18-235)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05  NON-RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   In non-residential zoning districts, fences, walls and outdoor area
enclosures may be erected if in accordance with the following regulations for
privacy/security enclosures:
      (1)   May be fences or walls, as defined herein;
      (2)   Maximum height shall not exceed six feet;
      (3)   May be erected on the rear lot line of any lot, tract or parcel;
      (4)   May be erected upon the side lot line of any lot, tract or parcel;
provided that, no fence may be erected on a side lot line to exceed the
required front building setback without prior City Council approval; and
      (5)   No privacy/security enclosure may be erected to encroach upon any
visibility triangle, right-of-way, access or drainage easements or floodway.
   (B)   Plans for each enclosures shall be specifically reviewed and approved
by the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 18-236)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06  OFFICE OR BUSINESS PARK OR COMPLEX ENCLOSURES (INCLUDING ENTRY
FEATURES).
   (A)   All enclosures shall be walls. Fences, as defined herein, shall not be
allowed.
   (B)   All enclosures shall be constructed with minimum ten-inch by 20-inch
brick columns set on piers with a maximum spacing of ten feet on center. Infill
material between brick columns shall be brick, pressure-treated lumber,
plaster, iron or other approved material.
   (C)   Maximum height of all enclosures shall be eight feet.
   (D)   Walls enclosing non-residential developments may be erected along rear
property lines.
   (E)   Walls enclosing non-residential developments may be erected upon rear
property lines and to the front and side property lines exceeding the required
front yard setback; provided that, such encroaching structure does not exceed
the required two-foot maximum height limit within the visibility triangle and
the enclosure does not encroach upon any right-of-way, drainage or utility
easements or floodway.
   (F)   Plans for such enclosures shall be specifically reviewed and approved
by the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 18-237)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07  REGULATIONS; TYPES OF ENCLOSURE.
   The following regulations shall apply.
   (A)   Screening. Live screening using natural growth or planted vegetation
shall be allowed within the city under the following provisions.
      (1)   No tree, shrub, hedge or other vegetation shall be so planted,
pruned or otherwise maintained to exceed a height of two feet within the
defined visibility triangle or street right-of-way.
      (2)   Any tree, shrub, hedge or other form of vegetation located within
the public right-of-way, utility easement or visibility triangle shall be
subject to removal (without compensation) by the authority of the city for the
purpose of utility maintenance and public safety.
   (B)   Barbed wire/farm fence. Except as provided herein, the use of barbed
wire and/or farm fence as an enclosing material is specifically prohibited
within the city:
      (1)   Authorized in agricultural zoning when existing at the time of
annexation; and
      (2)   Authorized when attached to the top of a minimum six-foot high
security fence in commercial and industrial zoning district classifications.
   (C)   Electrical fences. Except as provided herein, the use of electrical
fencing is specifically prohibited within the city.
      (1)   Electric fences are allowed only within commercial and industrial
zoning districts.
      (2)   The electrical fence must be located a distance of at least six
inches inside a non-electric fence.
      (3)   Electrical fences shall be UL approved and installed and maintained
as per manufacturer’s instructions.
      (4)   Electric fences not in compliance with the above are hereby
declared a nuisance per se and must be immediately removed.
(2012 Code, § 18-238)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.08  VISIBILITY AND SAFETY.
   On any corner lot, no wall, fence, sign, structure, plant growth or any
other object, whether movable or stationary, which obstructs the vision at
elevations between two feet and ten feet above the crown of the adjacent
roadway shall be placed or maintained within a visibility triangle created by
measuring 25 feet from the rights-of-way.
(2012 Code, § 18-239)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.09  PERMITS.
   (A)   Prior to construction of any outdoor area enclosure, a permit shall be
obtained from the Building Official. An application shall be accompanied by a
plot plan and shall accurately reflect all proposed outdoor area enclosure
structures, all easements, building setback lines and visibility triangles.
   (B)   Residential subdivision enclosures, office, business or industrial
park/complex enclosures and any privacy/security enclosure constructed as a
wall within any non-residential zoning district shall have detailed drawings
submitted with an application. Upon approval of the application, approval by
the Development Review Committee (when applicable) and payment of the permit
fee, as set by the City Council, a permit shall be issued for construction.
   (C)   If the permit holder fails to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, the permit shall be revoked, and the so-constructed fence shall be
considered a nuisance per se and must be immediately removed.
(2012 Code, § 18-240)
§ 152.10  SWIMMING POOL FENCE REQUIRED.
   An outdoor swimming pool shall be provided with a barrier that shall be
installed, inspected and approved prior to plastering or filling with water.
The barrier shall comply with 2015 International Residential Code.
(2012 Code, § 18-241)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.11  MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of a premises who fails to
meet the following standards for fence maintenance.
   (A)   All fences shall be maintained reasonably plumb and structurally
sound.
   (B)   Each structural and decorative member of a fence shall be free of
deterioration and be compatible in size, material and appearance with the
remainder of the fence.
   (C)   A fence that has deteriorated to such a condition that is likely to
fall shall be repaired or replaced.
   (D)   Fences shall not be externally braced in lieu of replacing or
repairing posts, columns or other structural members.
(2012 Code, § 18-245)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association of persons, company, corporation or his, her
or their agents, servants or employees violating or failing to comply with any
of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined, upon conviction, as described
in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances, and each day any violation of non- compliance
continues shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(2012 Code, § 18-244)
CHAPTER 153:  AIRPORTS
Section
Airport Advisory Board
   
153.01   Creation
   
153.02   Officers
   
153.03   Duties
   
153.04   Persons ineligible for membership
   
153.05   Compensation
Airport Zoning
   
153.20   Definitions
   
153.21   Zones
   
153.22   Height limitations
   
153.23   Use restrictions
   
153.24   Non-conforming uses
   
153.25   Permits
   
153.26   Enforcement
   
153.27   Board of Adjustment
   
153.28   Appeals
   
153.29   Judicial review
   
153.30   Conflicting regulations
Airport Rules and Regulations
   
153.45   General rules and regulations
   
153.46   Ground operations
   
153.47   Aircraft operations
   
153.48   Fueling, flammable fluids and fire safety
   
153.49   Environmental rules and compliance
   
153.50   Airport security
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Airport zoning, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 241.001 et seq.
   Annexation of municipally-owned airport, see Tex. Local Government Code §
43.102
   Aviation, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 21 et seq.
   County and municipal airports, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 22
   Obstruction to air navigation control, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 25
AIRPORT ADVISORY BOARD
§ 153.01  CREATION.
   (A)   There is created the Airport Advisory Board of the city, to be
composed of the number of members specified by the Council.
   (B)   All members shall be appointed to serve at the will of the Council.
Members of the Airport Advisory Board shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the
advice and consent of the City Council. Appointments to the Advisory Board
shall be made at the first regular meeting after the annual election, or as
soon thereafter as possible.
(2012 Code, § 14-31)
§ 153.02  OFFICERS.
   The Airport Advisory Board shall select from among its members a Chairperson
and a Vice- Chairperson, and it shall adopt, subject to the approval of the
City Council, such rules and regulations governing its proceedings as it may
deem proper. Such rules and regulations shall not be inconsistent with the
ordinances of the city. The Advisory Board shall appoint a Secretary, who may,
but need not be, a member of the Board. The Secretary shall keep a record of
all transactions of the Board. The manager of the airport shall provide the
Advisory Board with all information necessary for the performance of its
duties.
(2012 Code, § 14-32)
§ 153.03  DUTIES.
   The Airport Advisory Board shall make such general studies of airport
construction and operation as may be useful in keeping the municipal airport
efficient and adequate to the needs of the city and of the air transportation
industry. It shall make recommendations to the City Council in respect to
construction, expansions, improvements, maintenance and operation of such
airport. It shall call the manager’s attention to any failure by personnel of
the airport to carry out any orders or policies adopted by the City Council,
and it shall, acting in an advisory capacity, work toward the general
improvement of the airport and the advancement of the city as an air
transportation center.
(2012 Code, § 14-33)
§ 153.04  PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR MEMBERSHIP.
   No person having any financial interest in any commercial carrier by air, or
in any concession, right or privilege to conduct any business or render any
service for compensation upon the premises of the municipal airport shall be
eligible for membership on the Airport Advisory Board.
(2012 Code, § 14-34)
§ 153.05  COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Airport Advisory Board shall serve without compensation,
but may be reimbursed for all expenses reasonably incurred by them in the
performance of their duties as members of such Board when authorized by the
City Council.
(2012 Code, § 14-35)
AIRPORT ZONING
§ 153.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Clifton Municipal Airport.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. A structure or object of natural growth that obstructs the
air space required for the taking off, landing and flight of aircraft or that
interferes with visual, radar, radio or other systems for tracking, acquiring
data relating to, monitoring or controlling aircraft.
   AIRPORT REFERENCE POINT. The point established as the approximate geographic
center of the airport landing area and so designated.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this subchapter and shown on the zoning map, means mean sea level
elevation unless otherwise specified.
   JOINT AIRPORT ZONING BOARD. A board consisting of five members, two
appointed by City Aldermen, two appointed by the County Commissioners; the four
so appointed shall appoint a fifth, who shall act as Chairperson.
   LANDING AREA. The surface area of the airport used for the landing, takeoff
or taxiing of aircraft.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any structure, tree or use of land which is lawfully in
existence at the time the regulation is prescribed in this subchapter or an
amendment in this subchapter becomes effective and does not then meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian or other representative.
   RUNWAY. A defined area of an airport prepared for the landing and taking off
of aircraft along its length.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by one or more persons and
includes a building, tower, smokestack and overhead transmission line.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
(2012 Code, § 14-71)
§ 153.21  ZONES.
   (A)   (1)   In order to carry out the provisions of this subchapter, there
are created and established certain zones which include all of the land lying
within the approach zones, transition zones, horizontal zone and conical zone.
      (2)   Such areas and zones are shown on the airport zoning map consisting
of one sheet, prepared by the state’s Aeronautics Commission and dated 5-1-
1968, which is attached to Ord. 2 and made a part of this section by reference.
   (B)   The various zones are established and defined as follows.
      (1)   Approach zone. An approach zone is established at each end of all
runways on the airport for (non-instrument) landings and takeoffs. The approach
zone shall have a width of 250 feet at a distance of 200 feet beyond each end
of the runway, widening thereafter uniformly to a width of 2,250 feet at a
horizontal distance of 10,200 feet beyond each end of the runway, its
centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.
      (2)   Transition zones. Transition zones are established adjacent to each
runway and approach zone as indicated on the zoning map. Transition zones
symmetrically located on either side of runways have variable widths as shown
on the zoning map. Transition zones extend outward from a line 125 feet on
either side of the centerline of the runway, for the length of such runway plus
200 feet on each end, and are parallel and level with such runway centerlines.
The transition zones along such runways slope upward and outward one foot
vertically for each seven feet horizontally to the point where they intersect
the surface of the horizontal zone. Further, transition zones are established
adjacent to approach zones for the entire length of the approach zones. These
transition zones have variable widths, as shown on the zoning map. Such
transition zones flare symmetrically with either side of the runway approach
zones from the base of such zones and slope upward and outward at the rate of
one foot vertically for each seven feet horizontally to the points where they
intersect the surfaces of the horizontal and conical zones.
      (3)   Horizontal zone. A horizontal zone is established as the area
within a circle with its center at the airport reference point and having a
radius of 5,000 feet. The horizontal zone does not include the approach zones
and the transition zones.
      (4)   Conical zone. A conical zone is established as the area that
commences at the periphery of the horizontal zone and extends outward there
from a distance of 3,000 feet. The conical zone does not include the approach
zones and transition zones.
(2012 Code, § 14-72)
§ 153.22  HEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Established. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, allowed to grow or maintained in
any zone created by this subchapter to a height in excess of the height limit
established in this section for such zone. Such height limitations are
established for each of the zones in question as follows:
      (1)   Approach zones: one foot in height for each 20 feet in horizontal
distance beginning at a point 200 feet from and at the elevation of the end of
the runway and extending to a point 10,200 feet from the end of the runway;
      (2)   Transition zones: one foot in height for each seven feet in
horizontal distance beginning at any point 125 feet normal to and at the
elevation of the centerline of runways extending 200 feet beyond each end,
extending to a height of 150 feet above the airport elevation, which is 912.20
feet above mean sea level. In addition, there are established height limits of
one foot vertical height for each seven feet horizontal distance measured from
the edges of all approach zones for the entire length of the approach zones and
extending upward and outward to the points where they intersect the horizontal
or conical surfaces;
      (3)   Horizontal zone: 150 feet above the airport elevation or a height
of 912.20 feet above mean sea level; and
      (4)   Conical zone: one foot in height for each 20 feet of horizontal
distance beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone, extending to a
height of 300 feet above the airport elevation.
   (B)   Excepted height limitations. Nothing in this section shall be
construed as prohibiting the growth, construction or maintenance of any tree or
structure to a height up to 30 feet above the surface of the runway.
   (C)   Multiple limitations. Where an area is covered by more than one height
limitation, the more restrictive limitations shall prevail.
(2012 Code, § 14-73)
§ 153.23  USE RESTRICTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, no use may be made
of land within any zone established by this subchapter in such a manner as to:
   (A)   Create electrical interference with radio communication between the
airport and aircraft;
   (B)   Make it difficult for flyers to distinguish between airport lights and
others;
   (C)   Result in glare in the eyes of flyers using the airport;
   (D)   Impair visibility in the vicinity of the airport; or
   (E)   Otherwise endanger the landing, taking off or maneuvering of aircraft.
(2012 Code, § 14-74)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.24  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Regulations not retroactive. The regulations prescribed by this
subchapter shall not be construed to require the removal, lowering or other
changes or alteration of any structure or tree not conforming to the
regulations as of the effective date of Ord. 2, or otherwise interfere with the
continuance of any non-conforming use. Nothing contained in this subchapter
shall require any change in the construction, alteration or intended use of any
structure the construction or alteration of which was begun prior to the
effective date of Ord. 2 and is diligently prosecuted.
   (B)   Marking and lighting. Notwithstanding provisions of division (A)
above, the owner of any non- conforming structure or tree is required to permit
the installation, operation and maintenance of such markers and lights as shall
be deemed necessary by the Joint Airport Zoning Board to indicate to the
operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport, the presence of such
airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be installed, operated and
maintained at the expense of the airport.
(2012 Code, § 14-75)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.25  PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in divisions (A)(1), (A)
(2) and (A)(3) below, no material change shall be made in the use of land and
no structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted or otherwise
established in any zone created in this subchapter unless a permit shall have
been applied for and granted. Each application for a permit shall indicate the
purpose for which the permit is desired, with sufficient particularity to
permit it to be determined whether the resulting use, structure or tree would
conform to the regulations prescribed in this subchapter. If such determination
is in the affirmative, the permit shall be granted.
      (1)   In the area lying within the limits of the horizontal zone and the
conical zone, no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than
75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when, because of terrain,
land contour or topographic features such tree or structure would extend above
the height limits prescribed for such zone.
      (2)   In the areas lying within the limits of the approach zones, but at
a horizontal distance of not less than 4,200 feet from each end of the runways,
no permit shall be required for any tree or structure less than 75 feet of
vertical height above the ground, except when such tree or structure would
extend above the height limit prescribed for such approach zone.
      (3)   In the areas lying within the limits of the transition zones beyond
the perimeter of the horizontal zone, no permit shall be required for any tree
or structure less than 75 feet of vertical height above the ground, except when
such tree or structure, because of terrain, land contour or topographic
features would extend above the height limit prescribed for such transition
zones.
      (4)   Nothing contained in any of the exceptions specified in divisions
(A)(1) through (A)(3) above shall be construed as permitting or intending to
permit any construction, alteration or growth of any structure or tree in
excess of any of the height limits established by this chapter, except as set
forth in §
153.23 of this chapter.
   (B)   Existing uses. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a non-conforming use,
structure or tree to be made or become higher, or become a greater hazard to
air navigation, than it was on the effective date of Ord. 2 or any amendments
to such ordinance or than it is when the application for a permit is made.
Except as indicated, all applications for such a permit shall be granted.
      (1)   Non-conforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Joint
Airport Zoning Board determines that a non-conforming structure or tree has
been abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated or decayed,
no permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed
the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
      (2)   Variances. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of
any structure, or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property,
not in accordance with the regulations prescribed in this subchapter may apply
to the Board of Adjustment for a variance from such regulations. Such variances
shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal application or
enforcement of the regulations would result in practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship and the relief granted would not be contrary to the public
interest but will do substantial justice and be in accordance with the spirit
of this subchapter and Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 241.
      (3)   Hazard marking and lighting. Any permit or variance granted may, if
such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of this subchapter
and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the airport at its own
expense to install, operate and maintain such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to flyers the presence of an airport hazard.
(2012 Code, § 14-76)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.26  ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Joint Airport Zoning Board to administer and
enforce the regulations prescribed in this subchapter. Applications for permits
and variances shall be made to the Joint Airport Zoning Board, through the City
Secretary, upon a form furnished by him or her. Applications required by this
subchapter to be submitted to the Joint Airport Zoning Board shall be promptly
considered and granted or denied. Applications for action by the Board of
Adjustment shall be forthwith transmitted by the Chairperson of the Joint
Airport Zoning Board.
(2012 Code, § 14-77)
§ 153.27  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   There is created a Board of Adjustment to have and exercise the
following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the Joint Airport Zoning Board in the enforcement of this
subchapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
subchapter upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be
required to pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members appointed by the
Joint Airport Zoning Board as prescribed in the provisions of Tex. Local
Government Code Ch. 241; and each member shall serve for a term of two years
and shall be removable for cause by the appointing authority upon written
charges, after a public hearing.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this subchapter. Meetings of the
Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such
times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson or, in his or
her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing
the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
County Clerk and shall be a public record.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming or modifying any order,
requirement, decision or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board of Adjustment shall
be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of
the Joint Airport Zoning Board or to decide in favor of the applicant on any
matter upon which it is required to pass under this subchapter, or to effect
any variation in this subchapter.
(2012 Code, § 14-78)
§ 153.28  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
Joint Airport Zoning Board made in his or her administration of this
subchapter, or the governing body of a political subdivision or a Joint Airport
Zoning Board, if of the opinion that a decision of the Joint Airport Zoning
Board is an improper application of these regulations, may appeal to the Board
of Adjustment.
   (B)   All appeals under this section must be taken within a reasonable time
as provided by the rules of the Board of Adjustment, by filing with the Joint
Airport Zoning Board a notice of appeal specifying the grounds of appeal. The
Joint Airport Zoning Board shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   (C)   (1)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the Joint Airport Zoning Board certifies, in
writing, to the Board of Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed
with it, that, by reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would,
in its opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (2)   In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed, except by order of
the Board of Adjustment on notice to the agency from which the appeal is taken
and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the appeal within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination as may be appropriate under the
circumstances; and, for that purpose, the Board has the same authority as the
administrative agency from which the appeal was taken.
(2012 Code, § 14-79)
§ 153.29  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment or the governing body of a political subdivision or a Joint
Airport Zoning Board that believes a decision of the Board of Adjustment is
illegal may appeal to the court of record, as provided in Tex. Local Government
Code § 241.041.
(2012 Code, § 14-80)
§ 153.30  CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this subchapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
requirement shall govern and prevail.
(2012 Code, § 14-81)
AIRPORT RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 153.45  GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall be observed in the use and
operation of the Airport.
   (A)   Federal rules. Rules of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for
aircraft operated within the United States are to be observed.
   (B)   Safeguard of persons and property. The airport manager shall at all
times have authority to take necessary and legal actions to safeguard any
person, aircraft, equipment or property at the airport.
   (C)   Through-the-fence operations prohibited. No private individual,
partnership, FBO, company or corporation shall be permitted direct ground
access to or from the airport by his, her or their aircraft, customers’
aircraft or private vehicle from property adjacent to or in the immediate
vicinity of the airport - a practice commonly known as a “through-the-fence
operation”. Under extenuating circumstances, the City Council may request
approval from TxDOT Aviation Division for certain through-the-fence operations
on a case by case basis. Existing authorized through-the-fence operations are
grandfathered.
   (D)   Lien for charges. To enforce the payment of any charge for repairs,
improvements, storage or care of any personal property by the city or its
agents, the city may place a lien upon such personal property which shall be
enforceable as provided by law.
   (E)   Unauthorized signs and equipment. No signs, non-aeronautical
equipment, portable buildings or trailers may be erected, moved-in or installed
on airport property, except as may be specifically authorized by the airport
manager.
   (F)   Surreptitious activities. Any persons observing suspicious,
unauthorized or criminal activities should report such activities immediately
to the airport manager, local police or officers of the state’s Department of
Public Safety.
   (G)   Repairs to aircraft. No aircraft shall be repaired on any part of the
landing or takeoff area.
   (H)   Damage to airport. Any owner of any aircraft causing damage of any
kind to the airport, whether through violation of any of these rules, through
vandalism or any act of negligence shall be liable therefor in and to the city.
   (I)   Injury to person. Persons entering the airport ground side property by
automobile, or other vehicular conveyance, do so at their own risk and with no
liability incurring to the city for any injury or damage to person or property.
Further, any person desiring to use the airport shall observe and obey all
laws, regulations, orders, rules and regulations promulgated and enforced by
the city or by any other authority having jurisdiction over the operation of
the airport.
   (J)   Licensed pilots. Only aircraft with current FAA registration and
airworthiness and persons holding current airman and medical certificates for
those flight operations requiring medical certificates, shall be authorized to
operate aircraft upon the airport. Aircraft licensed by a foreign government
with which the United States has a reciprocal agreement covering the operation
of such licensed aircraft shall be authorized to use the airport. Use of the
airport by ultra light aircraft (FAR 103) and light sport aircraft in the
weight shift control and powered parachute class shall be subject to approval
by the City Council and shall be in accordance with FAA.
   (K)   Registration. Each person owning an aircraft based at the airport, or
any person based and receiving flight instruction toward a FAA rating at the
airport, shall register at the office of the airport manager, provide his or
her name, address, telephone number, aircraft model, aircraft registration “N”
number and the name, address and telephone number of their next of kin or
person to be notified in case of an accident or emergency.
   (L)   Animals. No person shall enter the airport with a dog, cat or other
animal unless the animal is, and remains, restrained by a leash or properly
confined as determined by the airport manager.
   (M)   Living quarters. No person may make permanent living quarters on
airport without approval by the City Council.
   (N)   Foreign objects. No foreign objects that may cause damage to an
aircraft shall be left upon any part of the surface area of the airport.
Individuals are encouraged to pick up foreign objects when observed and place
them in a trash receptacle.
   (O)   Litter. No trash will be allowed to accumulate in or about a hangar
and should be placed in proper containers. If such trash and litter is
permitted to accumulate around a privately owned, rented or leased hangar/
building, the hangar/building owner, renter or lessee may be notified by
registered letter to remove the offending litter. If, within ten working days
after receipt of the letter, the responsible person has not removed the trash
and litter as directed, the city may have the area cleaned and the cost for
such cleaning shall be charged to the hangar/building owner, renter or lessee.
(2012 Code, § 14-101)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.46  GROUND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Air, ground and vehicular traffic. No person shall operate a vehicle
on the airport, except in accordance with the following rules, and all federal,
state and local laws. All vehicles shall yield right- of-way to aircraft in
motion and emergency vehicles.
   (B)   Speed limits. All vehicles shall be operated within the posted speed
limits at the airport.
(2012 Code, § 14-102)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.47  AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Aircraft tie downs. All aircraft not hangared shall be tied down and,
additionally, should have the wheels chocked when remaining overnight and
during inclement weather.
   (B)   Running aircraft engines.
      (1)   Aircraft not equipped with adequate brakes shall not be started
until the wheels have been set with chocks attached to ropes or other suitable
means of removing them.
      (2)   No aircraft will be left running without a qualified person at the
controls.
      (3)   No aircraft engine shall be started or run inside any building or
hangar.
      (4)   Watch the prop blast and use only power necessary.
   (C)   Damage to airport lighting. Any person damaging any runway, ramp or
taxiway light or fixture by operation of aircraft or otherwise shall
immediately report such damage to the airport manager. Persons causing damage
to runway and taxiway lights as a result of negligent operation of an aircraft
or willful acts will be liable for replacement cost of the light(s) and/or
fixture(s) and may be charged with a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Taxiing aircraft. Aircraft will be taxied at a safe and prudent speed
and in such manner as to be under the control of the pilot in command at all
times. Aircraft shall not be taxied by engine power into or out of any hangar.
   (E)   Parking aircraft. All aircraft not hangared shall be parked in the
areas designed by the airport manager for that purpose.
   (F)   Authority to suspend operations. The airport manager may suspend or
restrict any or all operations whenever such action is deemed necessary in the
interest of safety.
   (G)   Standard traffic patterns and altitude, non-towered airports. All
flight activity will adhere to FAA Advisory Circular 90-66 (latest change),
Recommended Standard Traffic Patterns and Practices for Aeronautical Operations
at Airports Without Operating Control Towers.
   (H)   Takeoffs on other than runways. Takeoffs or landing shall not be made
on the apron, parking ramp, taxiway or any area other than designated runways.
   (I)   Student training, local operations. Flight instructors shall avail
themselves and their students of all rules and regulations, including local
rules and FARs in effect at the Airport.
   (J)   Agricultural spraying operations. Agricultural (Ag) spraying
operations will be conducted in accordance with procedures approved by the
airport manager. Each Ag operator shall carry airport premises liability
insurance in the amount of $1,000,000, and name the city as additional insured.
The Ag operator is liable for the cleanup of any chemical spills on airport
property caused by the Ag operator.
   (K)   Special procedures, parachuting.
      (1)   The airport manager may, in the interest of safety, designate
special traffic procedures for certain operations, such as helicopters, air
shows or aviation fly-ins, agricultural operations, gyroplanes, powered lift,
gliders, balloons, airships, ultra lights and light sport aircraft in the
weight shift control or powered parachute class.
      (2)   Parachute descent onto the airport property shall not be permitted
without the recommendations of the city’s Airport Advisory Board and the
written approval of the City Council. The airport manager may develop operating
procedures and designated landing areas for parachute operations on a one-time
basis.
   (L)   Model aircraft. Model aircraft not capable of carrying a person shall
not be permitted to operate, take off or be launched from, flown over or land
at the airport. Model AIC operations for specific aeronautical events such as
fly-ins or air shows may be approved for specific times by the City Council or
airport manager.
(2012 Code, § 14-103)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.48  FUELING, FLAMMABLE FLUIDS AND FIRE SAFETY.
   (A)   Fueling aircraft.
      (1)   All aircraft fueling, fuel equipment and procedures will be in
accordance with Manual 407, Standard for Aircraft Fuel Servicing, 2007 edition,
(or as revised), 1-800-344-3555, http://catalog.nfpa.org.
      (2)   All transportation, storage and other handling of aircraft and
vehicle fuel shall comply with the International Fire Code.
      (3)   Aircraft fuel storage tanks for below-ground or above-ground use
will be constructed and installed, registered as required, monitored for
leakage, operated and maintained in accordance with federal and state statutes,
rules and regulations promulgated by the Environmental Protection Agency and
the state’s Commission on Environmental Quality.
      (4)   Do not fuel or defuel inside any building or T-hangar.
      (5)   Aviation or auto fuels shall not be stored within a hangar or
building, except in approved five-gallon or smaller containers manufactured and
marked for such purpose and only with the approval of the local Fire Marshal.
Maintenance defueling tanks can be stored inside for safety reasons.
      (6)   Persons or businesses wishing to dispense fuel into their
privately-owned aircraft shall not be denied; however, they must meet all
reasonable requirements the city places on other fuel suppliers, public or
private. Private fueling facilities located on leased or private property must
be installed and the fuel dispensed in accordance with all rules applicable to
aircraft fueling and fire safety contained herein.
      (7)   All aviation fuel storage tanks, aviation fuel pumps, hydrant fuel
services and aircraft fuel service vehicles, whether publicly or privately
owned, shall have the type of aviation fuel dispensed printed in large block
letters, including octane if aviation gasoline, plus the fuel J.D. number and
“NO SMOKING” signs. This information shall be printed on all sides of the
fueling tanks, pumps and the like so the information is visible from any
direction on the ground.
      (8)   Fuel spills in excess of five gallons must be reported to the
airport manager and immediate action taken by the spilling entity to clean up
the spill in accordance with all local, state and federal regulations.
   (B)   Fuel flowage fee. Will be on a contract basis with the FBO.
   (C)   Fire safety.
      (1)   Every person using the airport or its facilities in any manner
shall exercise the greatest care and caution to avoid and prevent fire.
      (2)   Smoking or open flame within 50 feet of any fuel tank, fuel pump or
fuel truck is prohibited.
      (3)   No flammable substance shall be used for the cleaning of any
aircraft part, except approved parts washers, or anything inside a hangar, T-
hangar or other building upon the airport.
      (4)   Hangar entrances must be clear in a manner such that emergency or
fire/rescue personnel and equipment can immediately access the hangar without
hindrance.
      (5)   All airport tenants and lessees are recommended to supply and
maintain such adequate and readily accessible fire extinguishers as may be
required by applicable fire codes and regulations. Each fire extinguisher shall
carry a suitable tag showing the date of the most recent inspection.
(2012 Code, § 14-104)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.49  ENVIRONMENTAL RULES AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Flying clubs. A flying club (“club”) shall, at the time of applying
for a lease, license, permit or agreement to operate at the airport, furnish a
copy of its documents of organization, members and rules.
   (B)   Environmental issues and indemnification. The substances referred to
in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4) below are collectively referred
to hereinafter as “hazardous materials”. Any tenant of the airport, its agents,
employees, independent contractors or sub-lessee shall not install, store, use,
treat, transport or dispose of any:
      (1)   Asbestos in any form;
      (2)   Urea formaldehyde foam insulation;
      (3)   Transformers or other equipment which contain dielectric fluid
containing level of polychlorinated biphenyls in excess of 50 parts per
million; or
      (4)   Any other chemical, material, air pollutant, toxic pollutant, waste
or substance which is regulated as toxic or hazardous or exposure to which is
prohibited in amounts in excess of that permitted or deemed safe under
applicable law; or in any manner which is prohibited or deemed unsafe under
applicable law.
   (C)   Environmental cleanup laws. An airport tenant will, at its own
expense, comply with all existing or hereafter enacted laws relating to
hazardous materials (collectively “cleanup laws”) in effect at the time of the
lease and all future laws thereafter.
   (D)   Environmental notices. An airport tenant shall promptly supply the
City Council with copies of any notices of violation received from any
governmental authorities of the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   (E)   Environmental survival. An airport tenant’s liability pursuant to any
environmental issue shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of
their lease for 60 days.
   (F)   Storm water compliance.
      (1)   (a)   The airport is subject to federal storm water regulations, 40
C.F.R. part 122, for “Vehicle Maintenance Shops” (including vehicles
rehabilitation, mechanical repairs, painting, fueling and lubrication storm
water regulations).
         (b)   Each airport tenant shall become familiar with these storm water
regulations if it conducts “vehicle maintenance” or operates equipment cleaning
operations, as defined in the federal storm water regulations.
      (2)   An airport tenant’s close cooperation is necessary to ensure
compliance with any storm water discharge permit terms and conditions, as well
as to ensure safety and to minimize costs.
      (3)   The city will provide an airport tenant with a written notice of
those storm water discharge permit requirements that are in the city’s storm
water permit that a tenant will be obligated to perform from time to time.
   (G)   Insurance. An airport tenant shall during the term of lease maintain
at his, her or their cost and expense insurance relating to the leased premises
as follows:
      (1)   General public liability insurance against claims for bodily
injury, death or property damage occurring on, in or about the leased premises,
such insurance to afford protection to city of not less than $1,000,000
combined limit to personal or property damage;
      (2)   Hangar keeper’s liability insurance providing coverage for aircraft
not owned by the tenant in the following limits: $100,000 per aircraft and
$300,000 per occurrence on property damage to aircraft in the care, custody or
control of tenant;
      (3)   Tenants should provide fire damage insurance coverage for leased
structures in the amount of at least $100,000; and
      (4)   All such policies of insurance shall be issued by insurance
companies acceptable to the city, shall name the city as an additional insured
or loss payee, as the case may be, and shall provide for at least ten days’
written notice prior to cancellation or modification.
   (H)   Non-liability. The city shall not be liable to an airport tenant’s
employees, agents, servants, customers, invitees or to any other person
whomsoever, for any injury to persons or damages to property on or about the
leased premises or any adjacent area owned by the city.
(2012 Code, § 14-105)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.50  AIRPORT SECURITY.
   (A)   Locking the gate. All airport access gates shall be locked at sunset
and during all non-business hours. The airport manager is responsible for
locking, but may require the last lessee/tenant or full-time FBO employee
leaving the airport to secure the main entrance gate. If in doubt, lock the
gate.
   (B)   Keylocks. All gates will be secured with hardened steel chain and
hardened steel keylocks.
   (C)   Keys. Numbered keys to locks will be issued only by the airport
manager and will be marked “DO NOT DUPLICATE”. These keys shall be issued only
to: the airport manager; all lessees/tenants that have an airplane domiciled at
the airport and are bound by a current airport lease agreement; full-time
employees of the FBO and any other authorized business located on the airport,
local law enforcement, Fire Department and emergency services; and city’s
Public Works Director.
   (D)   Key usage. Recipients of keys shall be informed that loaning,
duplicating, giving or otherwise sharing of keys is a violation of airport
regulations and federal statutes.
   (E)   List of key-holders. The airport manager will maintain a current list
of all holders of the numbered keys and make it available to law enforcement
and the City Manager upon demand.
   (F)   After-hours. Authorized holders of keys who open a gate during non-
business hours will be required to close the gate when they leave or require
anyone arriving before their departure to leave or lock the gate when they
leave.
   (G)   Key possession. Authorized holders of keys will keep them in safe
personal possession at all times. Failure to abide by these basic needs will be
considered a violation.
   (H)   Changing keys. Keys to the airport will be changed January 1 of each
year and replaced to all holders described in division (C) above.
   (I)   Through-the-fence authority. The holder of the through-the-fence
authority has access to the airport runways and taxiways granted by statute.
Unless attended, however, their access gate must be locked after sunset and
during non-business hours. They shall not give unauthorized foot or vehicular
access to the airport when the airport access gates are customarily locked.
   (J)   Security camera. The airport security camera system is the property of
the city. The airport manager will maintain the security camera system in
operating condition at all times. He or she will make images available to law
enforcement and/or the City Manager upon demand. The airport manager will not
allow unauthorized copies of images to be made, nor distributed to unauthorized
parties, nor will he or she delete images, except as accomplished by the normal
operation of the system. The airport manager will be the sole holder of the
password to this computer security system.
   (K)   Other responsibilities. Lessees/tenants of the airport are responsible
for keeping hangars, vehicles and airplanes locked when not attended.
   (L)   Liability. The city’s airport is not responsible for items lost,
damaged or stolen and disclaims all liability, except exercising reasonable
care in keeping premises locked and under video surveillance as described.
   (M)   Access codes/devices. Persons who have been provided either a code or
device for the purpose of obtaining access to the airport shall not divulge,
duplicate or otherwise distribute the same to any other person, unless
otherwise approved by the airport manager.
(2012 Code, § 14-106)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter or of any regulation, order or ruling
promulgated under this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and be punishable
by a fine; and each day a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
(2012 Code, § 14-82)
CHAPTER 154:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
154.01   Obstructions
   
154.02   Changing street, alley or gutter grades
   
154.03   Street banners and streamers
   
154.04   Projecting signs, awnings, marquees and similar devices
   
154.05   Access driveways to state highways
   
154.06   Destruction of pavement prohibited
   
154.07   Sidewalks
Statutory reference:
   Municipal charges for use of streets and the like, see Tex. Tax Code §§
182.024 et seq.
   Municipal streets, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 311 et seq.
   Street improvements and assessments, see Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 313
§ 154.01  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The obstruction of any street, avenue, alley or sidewalk by vehicles, boxes,
merchandise, rubbish or anything that interferes with traffic on or the free
use of such places by the public is declared to be unlawful. It shall likewise
be unlawful for any person to place or maintain any obstruction of any kind in
the gutter or drain of any street, avenue or sidewalk.
(2012 Code, § 76-1)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.02  CHANGING STREET, ALLEY OR GUTTER GRADES.
   No person shall change the grades, in any manner, of any street, alley or
gutter in the city without the consent of the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 76-2)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03  STREET BANNERS AND STREAMERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or install any banner, streamer
or similar device across any street or alley in the city without first
obtaining a permit from the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 76-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.04  PROJECTING SIGNS, AWNINGS, MARQUEES AND SIMILAR DEVICES.
   Any sign, awning, marquee or other device which projects over any sidewalk
in the city shall be so located as to leave a clearance of at least seven feet
between the lowest portion of such device and the sidewalk. If such sign,
awning or other device projects over any portion of a public street, such
minimum clearance shall be 16 feet.
(2012 Code, § 76-4)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05  ACCESS DRIVEWAYS TO STATE HIGHWAYS.
   The regulations entitled Regulations for Access Driveways to State Highways,
adopted by the state’s Department of Transportation in September, 1953, and
revised November, 1955, as amended, a copy of which is on file in the office of
the City Secretary, are approved and made a part of this chapter to the same
extent as if set out at length in this section; and such regulations shall
govern the design, construction and maintenance of access driveways on city
streets or highway routes within the corporate limits of the city.
(2012 Code, § 76-5)
§ 154.06  DESTRUCTION OF PAVEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig, trench across or destroy any
pavement within the city.
(2012 Code, § 76-6)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Trench excavation safety, see Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 756.021 et seq.
§ 154.07  SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   New sidewalks. Sidewalks are the responsibility of the builder for one
year. After the first year, maintenance of sidewalks is the responsibility of
the property owner.
(2012 Code, § 76-7)
   (B)   Existing sidewalks on Avenue G and 5th Street. Sidewalks on private
property are the responsibility of the property owner. If repairs are not made,
the city may repair and assess the property owner for the expense.
(2012 Code, § 76-8) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 155:  RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Construction; governing law; venue
   
155.03   Scope
   
155.04   Definitions
Construction Regulations
   
155.15   Right-of-way construction
   
155.16   Financial responsibility
   
155.17   Construction permits
   
155.18   Construction standards
   
155.19   Base material
   
155.20   Facilities; disturbance
   
155.21   Location and placement; conformance with public improvements
   
155.22   Erosion control
   
155.23   Traffic control
   
155.24   Street and sidewalk cuts
   
155.25   Backfill
   
155.26   Right-of-way inspections
   
155.27   Substandard construction
   
155.28   Damage or destruction; liability
   
155.29   Restoration of property
   
155.30   New streets
   
155.31   Notice to adjoining property owners
   
155.32   Enforcement; defenses
 
   
155.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Safety; Nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Streets, Sidewalks and Other Public Property, see
Ch. 154
   Zoning, see
Ch. 159
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01  TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited as the “Right-of-Way Management
Ordinance for the City of Clifton”.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)
§ 155.02  CONSTRUCTION; GOVERNING LAW; VENUE.
   This chapter shall be construed under and in accordance with the Charter and
this code of the city to the extent that such Charter and code are not in
conflict with or in violation of the constitution or laws of the United States
or of the state. All obligations of the parties hereunder are performable in
the county.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)
§ 155.03  SCOPE.
   This chapter shall be effective within the territorial limits of the city,
including any areas subsequently annexed by the city and any present or future
subdivisions within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)
§ 155.04  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BACKFILL. Material removed from an area whereby some or all of said
material needs to be replaced in a manner consistent with the area’s condition
prior to removal.
      CHAPTER. This Right-of-Way Management Ordinance and any applicable or
specific sections of such ordinance.
      CITY. The City of Clifton, Texas, and its departments, officials, agents
and employees.
      CITY-BUSINESS DAY. A work day upon which the city ordinarily and
customarily conducts business.
      CITY DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The individual functioning as the city’s
Director of Public Works or the Director of Public Works services of the city
and includes any employee, agent or representative designated to represent the
city’s Director of Public Works, unless otherwise indicated.
      CONSTRUCTION. Boring, the breaking of pavement or the installation,
modification, upgrade, maintenance, removal or similar activities, on
facilities above, upon or within the right-of-way. The definition does not
include providing primary service, restoration or maintenance of existing
facilities unless providing primary service, restoration or maintenance
requires excavation, boring or the breaking of pavement of a length of more
than two feet within the right-of-way.
      CONTROL JOINT. A line scored on the surface of concrete to control
cracking.
      EMERGENCY. Those circumstances, including service interruption as that
term is defined by this chapter, where the health, safety or general welfare of
the public is at risk or will be at risk, and such circumstances necessitate
response work or repair from a user of the right-of-way.
      FACILITIES. Structures, infrastructure or other appurtenances above, upon
or within the right- of-way and includes, but is not limited to, utility lines
and appurtenances, water lines, sewer lines, streets, curb, gutters, traffic-
control devices and appurtenances and other infrastructure, whether owned,
operated, maintained or leased by the city or a third party.
      GENERAL PERMIT. A permit issued in lieu of individual permits for the
purpose of allowing routine or repetitious construction, including construction
for service drops and service build-outs.
      GRAVITY-DEPENDENT FACILITIES. Any facility which must maintain a slope in
order to function properly.
      PERMITTEE. The person requesting a construction permit or other permits
from the city in order to perform construction in the right-of-way, and such
term includes any agent, employee or other representative designated by the
person requesting a construction or other such permit.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or other legal entity
authorized to do business in the state, or a person’s representatives,
employees or designated agents, and also includes a user as that term is
defined and used in this chapter.
      PRIMARY SERVICE. Service provided to an end-use customer by a utility
provider or user if the delivery of such service uses the right-of-way and is
limited to activity to connect an end-use customer to a primary utility supply
already existing adjacent to the end-use customer’s site or premises.
      RESTORATION. Putting property affected by right-of-way construction into
a condition that is equal to or better than the condition of the property prior
to the construction, and such term shall include repair, removal, replacement
or renovation of right-of-way property.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, waterway or utility easement in which the city
has an interest. The term does not include the airwaves above a right-of-way
with regard to wireless telecommunications.
      SERVICE INTERRUPTION. Unavailability of utility service due to
malfunction in or damage to the utility infrastructure.
      USER. A person who commences, facilitates or performs construction upon a
facility above, upon or beneath the right-of-way in a manner governed by this
chapter and includes user’s representatives, designated agents, contractors and
subcontractors, if applicable, unless otherwise indicated.
   (B)   In the application of these definitions and other terms and conditions
of this chapter, words in the plural also mean and include the singular and
words in the singular also mean and include the plural unless otherwise
indicated by this chapter.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)
CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 155.15  RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION.
   No person shall commence or continue with the construction of facilities
above, upon or beneath right-of-way in the city, except as provided by this
chapter and pursuant to the directives of the city’s Director of Public Works
issued pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.16  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a user shall provide
proof of insurance as directed by the city, and as a condition of the granting
of a permit, in the following types and amounts:
      (1)   Worker’s compensation insurance covering all employees of permittee
engaged in any operation covered by the permit;
      (2)   Vehicle insurance: $300,000 for personal injuries to any one person
and $500,000 for personal injuries arising out of any one accident, casualty or
event;
      (3)   General liability: $500,000 for personal injury and $100,000 for
property damage; and
      (4)   Umbrella coverage: $1,000,000.
   (B)   Insurance coverage provided and required under this chapter shall be
payable on a per occurrence basis and shall include acceptable coverage for
personal injury, contractual liability, premises liability, medical damages,
underground explosion and collapse hazards.
   (C)   Each policy shall include a cancellation provision in which the
insurance company shall be required to notify the city, in writing, not less
than 30 days before the insurance company cancels, fails to renew or reduces
any policy limits.
   (D)   A user shall file with the City Secretary the required original
certificate of insurance prior to any construction in the right-of-way. The
certificate shall state the policy number, name of the insurance company and
underwriter, name and address of the agent or authorized representative of the
insurance company, name, address and telephone number of the insured, policy
effective and expiration dates and specific coverage amounts.
   (E)   In addition to the insurance requirements of this chapter, a user
shall present to the City Secretary a surety bond, obtained from a surety
company authorized to do business in the state, in the estimated amount of the
value of the construction to be performed during the course of 12 months, and
such bond shall be in effect and valid prior to the commencement of any
construction, and such bond shall remain in effect and valid for 12 months
after the completion of the construction in order to guarantee the restoration
of the right-of-way in the event the user or the user’s contractors or
subcontractors leave the right-of-way unfinished, incomplete or unsafe.
   (F)   If a user is or has been a party to a contract or to a franchise or
license agreement with the city, and under such contract or agreement,
insurance and a bond or bonds are required to be kept in force, and are in
force when the user performs construction under this chapter, then such
insurance and bond or bonds shall be accepted by the city in lieu of the user
complying with the requirements of this section. A user will be responsible for
showing proof that such insurance and bond or bonds are in force before the
user commences to perform construction under this chapter.
   (G)   The requirements of this section may be waived for a user who provides
to the city the user’s most recent audited financial statement or similar
verifiable documentation showing assets or reserves in excess of $5,000,000.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)
§ 155.17  CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall perform any construction of facilities in the
right-of-way without first obtaining a construction permit, except as otherwise
provided by this chapter.
      (2)   The permit shall be in the name of the person who owns or will
subsequently own the facilities to be constructed. The permit application shall
be completed and signed by the person as permittee.
   (B)   A permit under this section shall not be required when providing
primary service, as defined by this chapter, unless providing such primary
service requires construction of a length of more than two feet within the
right-of-way.
   (C)   Construction considered an emergency, as that term is defined by this
chapter, relating to existing facilities may be undertaken without first
obtaining a permit from the city. However, a user shall notify the city’s
Director of Public Works’ office as promptly as possible after beginning the
emergency construction, but in any event in writing no later than the next
city-business day, of any emergency construction, and shall also provide within
two business days a reasonably detailed description of the construction
performed in the right-of-way, and shall further provide within 90 days from
the date any facilities are reconstructed or relocated and an updated map of
any facilities that were affected by such emergency construction, but if the
facilities are merely repaired in place, no updated map shall be required. In
the event of inclement weather or natural disaster, only one general
notification will be required.
   (D)   A general permit, as defined herein, may be issued by the City
Secretary and the Director of Public Works, but a permittee shall otherwise
comply with division (E) below in the issuance of a general permit.
   (E)   A permittee shall provide the city’s Director of Public Works the
following information prior to the permit being issued and such information
shall be incorporated by reference into the permit:
      (1)   To whom the permit is issued;
      (2)   A description of the location of construction and facilities;
      (3)   A description of the route of all facilities to be constructed on
or about the designated right-of-way;
      (4)   Location of all right-of-way easements which the permittee plans to
use;
      (5)   Location of existing city and third-party facilities;
      (6)   Description of plans, which may be submitted as a form statement,
to restore existing facilities pursuant to this chapter and other right-of-way
construction, and such plans shall comply with the standard construction
guidelines of the city, including the City of Clifton Standard Specifications,
as revised;
      (7)   Drawings of any bores, trenches, hand holes, manholes, switch gear,
transformers, pedestals, poles and the such-like, including any applicable
depths and heights;
      (8)   Typicals of manholes and hand holes that the permittee plans to use
or access;
      (9)   The construction methods and materials to be employed by the
permittee for the protection of existing facilities within, above, beneath or
adjacent to the right-of-way, all of which methods and materials are subject to
approval by the city’s Director of Public Works;
      (10)   Estimated dates and times that construction is scheduled to be
performed;
      (11)   The base material to be used;
      (12)   Restoration of property;
      (13)   Three sets of construction plans which shall be on a scale not to
exceed one inch equaling 100 feet unless otherwise approved by the city’s
Director of Public Works and the plans shall include the dimensions from the
proposed facility to permanent reference points;
      (14)   Detailed description of what the permittee proposes to construct,
including, but not limited to, if applicable, pipe sizes, the number of
interducts and valves;
      (15)   A complete legend of drawings submitted by the permittee, which
may be provided by reference to previously submitted documents, but if symbols
are used, the permittee shall provide the city with an accurate guide to the
meaning of any symbols used;
      (16)   A written statement that proof of insurance, bond or other
financial information required under this chapter is current and on file with
the city; and
      (17)   A traffic control plan acceptable to the city’s Director of Public
Works.
   (F)   All construction in the right-of-way shall be in accordance with the
construction permit for the facilities. The city’s Director of Public Works
shall be provided access to the right-of-way construction and to such further
information as the city’s Director of Public Works may reasonably require in
order to ensure compliance with the permit or this chapter.
   (G)   A copy of the construction permit and approved Director of Public
Works plans shall be maintained at the construction site and made available for
inspection by the city’s Director of Public Works at all times when
construction is occurring.
   (H)   All construction authorized by permit shall be completed in the time
specified in the construction permit. If the construction cannot be completed
in the specified time period, a user may request an extension of time from the
city’s Director of Public Works, who shall not unreasonably deny such
extension. A user may continue work that has been approved by the permit during
the time the request for an extension is pending, so long as the request is
made prior to the expiration of the permit.
   (I)   A copy of any permit or approval issued by federal or state
authorities for work in federal or state right-of-way located in the city shall
be provided by the user to the city’s Director of Public Works upon request.
   (J)   A request for a construction permit shall be submitted at least 15
city-business days before the commencement of the proposed construction unless:
      (1)   The construction is for primary service and state law or federal
law requires construction time be less than 15 city-business days; or
      (2)   The city’s Director of Public Works agrees to a request by the user
for a modified submission date.
   (K)   Requests for construction permits shall be promptly processed and
approved or disapproved by the city’s Director of Public Works, but in any
event no later than ten city-business days after receiving all the permit
information required under this chapter; except that, if an emergency exists, a
construction permit shall be processed as soon as reasonably practical.
   (L)   The city’s Director of Public Works may request a pre-construction
meeting with the permittee or the user.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)
§ 155.18  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   A user shall notify the city’s Director of Public Works not less than
24 hours in advance that construction is ready to proceed and provide the name,
address and phone number of the contractor or subcontractor(s) who will perform
the actual construction, including the name and telephone number of an
individual designated by the contractor or subcontractor(s) who will be
available for contact by the city at all times during construction.
   (B)   Construction shall be in compliance with all applicable city codes,
local, state and federal laws, and the City of Clifton Standard Specifications,
as revised.
   (C)   Hours for right-of-way construction and any related work, except for
an emergency as defined under this chapter, for longer than from 7:00 a.m.
until 7:00 p.m., seven days a week, must be approved by the city’s Director of
Public Works upon submission by a user prior to commencement of construction.
   (D)   (1)   A user shall place at the location where construction is to
occur, at least 24 hours prior to the beginning of construction, information
signs measuring three feet by three feet, stating the identity and telephone
number of the person doing the construction in the right-of-way, and the
identity and telephone number of the user, and said information signs shall
remain posted at the location during the entire time the construction is
occurring.
      (2)   If the construction is due to an emergency, as defined elsewhere in
this chapter, the 24-hour advanced placement is not required.
   (E)   The size and nature of facilities, to be in the right-of-way,
including their location, depth, height, upgrades and other particulars, shall
be subject to the approval of the city’s Director of Public Works unless such
approval conflicts with state or federal law.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.19  BASE MATERIAL.
   (A)   At least five days prior to the commencement of the backfill
operations, a user shall submit to the city’s Director of Public Works a sample
of the base material to be used by the user at the construction site. Director
of Public Works approval of the sample is required.
   (B)   A user shall notify the city’s Director of Public Works not less than
two hours prior to the placement of base material. Failure to do so may result
in the suspension of construction and the removal of any base material placed
without prior approval.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.20  FACILITIES; DISTURBANCE.
   (A)   A user’s facilities shall not be allowed to disturb city facilities,
in particular gravity-dependent facilities.
   (B)   The city’s Director of Public Works may direct a user to keep a
reasonable distance from facilities which are city-owned or leased. Facilities
constructed shall be presumed to disturb facilities which are city-owned or
leased if the existing facility, or the facility to be constructed, is within
three feet horizontally of such city-owned or leased facility. Nothing in this
section shall diminish the authority of the city’s Director of Public Works to
require specific placement of particular facilities.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.21  LOCATION AND PLACEMENT; CONFORMANCE WITH PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to commencing excavation or boring, unless otherwise
excepted by this chapter, a user shall verify the horizontal and vertical
location of existing city and third-party facilities within three feet of the
user’s proposed construction. Prior to commencing excavation or boring, unless
otherwise excepted by this chapter, a user shall verify only the horizontal
location for facilities outside three feet of the user’s proposed construction
and which may be reasonably anticipated to be disturbed by the user’s proposed
construction.
      (2)   Any facility constructed by a user shall maintain a minimum of six
inches’ vertical separation when crossing any existing facility.
      (3)   Facilities constructed by the user shall be constructed at a
minimum depth of 24 inches, except the city’s Director of Public Works may
require a lesser or greater depth if it is deemed necessary for the health,
safety or general welfare of the public.
      (4)   All bores shall be a minimum of 24 inches below the street gutter
or edge of pavement. All directional boring shall have a locator place bore
marks and depths while the bore is in operation. Locator shall place a mark at
each stem with a paint dot and shall mark the depth at least at every other
stem.
      (5)   Placement of all appurtenances shall be approved by the city’s
Director of Public Works prior to placement.
      (6)   All utilities, including electrical distribution facilities and
communication, shall be installed underground along residential streets, unless
otherwise approved by the city’s Director of Public Works. Temporary electrical
service may be installed above ground adjacent to unplatted property along
residential streets. However, these fines must be placed underground as
adjacent property develops. Electrical and/or communication utility lines shall
be installed underground in compliance with utility service regulations.
Electrical utility service to non-residential properties from overhead
distribution lines shall be placed underground from the right-of-way to the
point of service. Developers are encouraged to install all utilities
underground on each property. Existing overhead facilities which follow
existing routes, rights-of-way and/or easements may remain and may be repaired,
replaced, upgraded or relocated along the same general route, while new
overhead distribution feeders and major circuits may be constructed or
extended.
   (B)   (1)   For the purpose of conforming underground or overhead facilities
for public improvements, and as allowed by, or consistent with, state or
federal laws governing such conformance, and if it shall be deemed necessary by
the city’s Director of Public Works to undertake such conformance, such
conformance shall be accomplished by the user, at the user’s expense and
direction, within 90 days from receipt of notice from the city to the user
unless a longer time schedule has been approved by the city’s Director of
Public Works. The city’s Director of Public Works will consider all reasonable
and economical public improvement alternatives prior to requiring conformance.
The user may notify the city’s Director of Public Works of options other than
conformance.
      (2)   Facilities that do not conform after 90 days to the stated purposes
set forth here or within an extended schedule approved by the city’s Director
of Public Works, are subject to removal from the right-of-way by the city. If
removal occurs, the city shall not be liable for damages or other compensation
to user, but the city shall be responsible for reasonable care of such removed
facilities while such facilities are in city custody and until the user takes
possession of such removed facilities. The city shall bear no responsibility
for removed facilities not repossessed by user within 30 days after the city
has taken custody of removed facilities.
      (3)   Whenever it shall be necessary to require user to conform its
facilities within the right-of- way, such conformance shall be made without
claim for reimbursement or damages against the city. It is understood and,
further provided, however, that, the city shall not require the user to remove
its facilities entirely from the right-of-way. If the city requires the user to
conform its facilities to enable any entity or person other than the city to
use, or to use with greater convenience, right-of-way, the user shall not be
required to conform its facilities until such other entity or person shall
reimburse or make arrangements satisfactory to user to reimburse user for any
loss and expense caused by or arising out of such conformance.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.22  EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   (1)   Erosion control measures, including, but not limited to,
backfill, silt fencing, advance warning signs, markers, cones and barricades
shall be in their proper locations before construction begins in the right-of-
way. The user shall be responsible for storm water management erosion control
that complies with city, state and federal guidelines.
      (2)   Requirements may include, but not be limited to, silt fencing in
erosion areas until reasonable vegetation is established and wire-backed silt
fencing around high erosion areas.
   (B)   A user may be required to show proof of plans approved by the
Environmental Protection Agency relating to storm water and erosion, when
applicable, or, in the alternative, written documentation verifying that user
is not required to obtain such plans.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.23  TRAFFIC CONTROL.
   Unless an emergency exists, as that term is defined herein, traffic lane
closures in the right-of-way which obstruct the flow of traffic for longer than
four hours at a time may be allowed only under the direction and permission of
the city’s Director of Public Works and in accordance with the Texas Manual on
Uniform Traffic-Control Devices (MUTCD) and other applicable local, state or
federal law; except that, the flow of traffic on collectors or arterials cannot
be obstructed for any period of time, except under the direction and permission
of the city’s Director of Public Works and in accordance with the Texas Manual
on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices (MUTCD) and other applicable local, state or
federal law.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.24  STREET AND SIDEWALK CUTS.
   (A)   Except in the event of an emergency, as defined under this chapter,
when a street or sidewalk cut is required, prior approval must be obtained from
the city’s Director of Public Works, and all requirements of this chapter and
other applicable ordinances must be followed.
   (B)   Prior to excavation of a street or sidewalk, a user shall be in
compliance with all local, state and federal laws, if applicable, including the
state’s Underground Facility Damage Prevention and Safety Act, being Tex.
Utilities Code Ch. 251.
   (C)   All trenches in asphalt or concrete-surfaced areas shall have a clean,
straight cut through the pavement surface prior to removal of the surface. Any
cuts in sidewalks, including those cuts required in the event of an emergency,
as defined under this chapter, shall be made at existing control joints.
   (D)   Except in the event of an emergency, as defined under this chapter, a
user shall notify the city’s Director of Public Works not less than two hours
prior to commencing a street or sidewalk cut.
   (E)   A user shall comply with proper traffic control during a street or
sidewalk cut. Traffic control shall be in conformance with the MUTCD and other
applicable local, state and federal law.
   (F)   A user shall be responsible for obtaining line locates from all
affected facilities prior to executing any street or sidewalk cut.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.25  BACKFILL.
   (A)   (1)   At least five days prior to the commencement of the backfill
operations, a user shall submit to the city’s Director of Public Works a sample
of the backfill material to be used by the user at the construction site.
      (2)   Director of Public Works approval of the sample is required.
   (B)   A user shall notify the city’s Director of Public Works at least two
hours prior to beginning backfill operations. Failure to so notify may result
in suspension of construction and removal of any unauthorized installed
backfill.
   (C)   In excavations 18 inches or less in width, or where for any reason
compaction cannot be achieved with gravel backfill, flowable concrete shall be
used in place of gravel backfill in all areas within three feet of the back of
the curb or the edge of pavement.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.26  RIGHT-OF-WAY INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The city’s Director of Public Works shall inspect right-of-way
construction and shall determine the hours and schedule for inspections
required to be performed pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   A user may contact the city’s Director of Public Works for a
schedule of such inspections.
   (B)   The fact that an inspection has been performed does not relieve,
excuse or otherwise alleviate or minimize a user’s obligations of otherwise
complying with this chapter or from complying with other obligations or
specifications legally imposed on a user.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.27  SUBSTANDARD CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Any person performing construction in city rights-of-way shall perform
such construction in a manner that complies with this chapter, other applicable
local, state and federal laws.
   (B)   Facilities installed after the effective date of this chapter shall be
presumed to be improperly constructed and substandard if:
      (1)   The construction endangers, or is reasonably likely to endanger,
the general public or persons using the constructed right-of-way;
      (2)   The facilities do not meet applicable city codes, state or federal
law;
      (3)   The facilities are not capable of being reasonably located or as
otherwise required by this chapter;
      (4)   The facilities are not located in the proper place in accordance
with this chapter, the directives provided by the city’s Director of Public
Works pursuant to this chapter;
      (5)   The facilities are placed in an area that disturbs facilities which
are city-owned or leased;
      (6)   Facilities constructed or to be constructed are within three feet
horizontally of such city-owned or leased facility; and/or
      (7)   Substandard construction is unacceptable to the city under this
chapter and may be ameliorated by the city or by a third party at the direction
of the city, and the user shall be liable for the costs of such amelioration.
Before amelioration is undertaken by the city or by a third party at the
direction of the city, the user shall be provided notice and allowed ten days,
or a longer period of time if requested by the user and granted by the city’s
Director of Public Works, to bring the construction up to applicable standards
acceptable to the city.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.28  DAMAGE OR DESTRUCTION; LIABILITY.
   (A)   Without intending to affect or determine the legal relationship
between a user and any third party, a user shall be liable for any property
damage or destruction caused by the user, or by any contractor or subcontractor
of the user, as a result of the user or any contractor or subcontractor of the
user constructing in the right-of-way. A designated agent or representative of
a user shall be available to the city’s Director of Public Works for contact
purposes in the event of damage or destruction.
   (B)   A user shall notify the city’s Director of Public Works upon
occurrence of any damage or destruction to any facility or other property owned
or leased by a third party or by the city, in connection with construction
occurring in the right-of-way, if such occurrence happens during a city
business day. If the occurrence happens on a day other than a city business
day, notification must be given by 9:00 a.m. on the first city business day
following the occurrence.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.29  RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Surface restoration shall be constructed as designated on the
construction permit. A user shall notify the city’s Director of Public Works
not less than two hours prior to the placement of surface restoration material.
Failure to do so may result in the suspension of construction and the removal
of any surface material placed without prior approval.
   (B)   A user shall be responsible for having all abandoned facilities
removed within seven calendar days after their abandonment unless otherwise
extended by the city’s Director of Public Works or unless the city’s Director
of Public Works determines that such abandoned facilities should not be removed
after a request is made to the city’s Director of Public Works that the
facilities should not be removed.
   (C)   During a cessation in the construction or after completion of the
construction, and in order to avoid safety hazards to vehicles and pedestrian
traffic, all street and sidewalk construction shall be restored by a user
within a reasonable period of time to be determined by the city’s Director of
Public Works.
   (D)   A user shall restore property damaged or destroyed by construction on
or adjacent to the right- of-way to a condition that is as good as or better
than the pre-existing condition of the right-of-way or adjacent property, as
determined by the city’s Director of Public Works. The city’s Director of
Public Works shall reject or accept restoration within three city-business days
after a user presents to the city’s Director of Public Works that the
restoration is completed.
   (E)   Restoration shall be completed in a timely manner as specified by
schedules prepared and provided by the permittee and approved by the city’s
Director of Public Works.
   (F)   If restoration is not completed in a timely manner as specified and is
not satisfactory and acceptable to the city, the city’s Director of Public
Works may suspend all construction in progress; except that, relating to the
restoration, including all construction previously permitted, but not complete,
and the city’s Director of Public Works may suspend the approval of permits not
approved until the restoration is completed in a timely manner as specified and
made satisfactory and acceptable to the city.
   (G)   At the direction and approval of the city’s Director of Public Works,
restoration by a user shall include, but not be limited to, the following, if
such is damaged or destroyed as a result of right-of-way construction:
      (1)   All ground cover and landscaping;
      (2)   Manholes, hand holes, vaults, pull boxes, valve covers, clean-outs
and the like;
      (3)   Daily back-filling, covering or barricading of all bore pits,
potholes, trenches or any other holes occurring as a result of the construction
on the right-of-way, unless other back-filling alternatives are approved by the
city’s Director of Public Works, to the extent such daily back-filling,
covering or barricading shall secure the site as safe for pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, as the case may be; provided that, if the excavation is
within the roadway or on or adjacent to a sidewalk, the excavation must be
backfilled daily or covered with a one-inch thick steel plate with spikes
welded to the underside to prevent slippage and, if greater than one inch, the
upstream side shall have an asphalt ramp;
      (4)   Leveling all trenches and backhoe lines;
      (5)   Sprinkler systems;
      (6)   Traffic-control devices, equipment and appurtenances;
      (7)   Otherwise restoring the right-of-way and construction site to city
specifications pursuant to this chapter and this code; and
      (8)   All locate flags shall be promptly removed by a user upon
completion of construction.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.30  NEW STREETS.
   The city shall maintain and reasonably make available a list of all streets
improved for the prior five years. No right-of-way construction shall be
allowed in the pavement of the listed streets, except in an emergency or as
otherwise approved by the city’s Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.31  NOTICE TO ADJOINING PROPERTY OWNERS.
   A user shall notify adjoining property owners not less than 24 hours in
advance of any construction unless such construction constitutes an emergency,
as defined and applied herein.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)  Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.32  ENFORCEMENT; DEFENSES.
   (A)   Notice of violation; correction period. The city’s Director of Public
Works may give notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to any
person who violates this chapter, and such person who receives such notice
shall have 45 days to correct all violations alleged in the notice. Failure to
correct any such alleged violations shall cause the person to be subject to
penalties under §
155.99 of this chapter.
   (B)   Affirmative defense. With the exception of any actions requiring
authorization, franchises, licenses or permits, including permits issued before
actual use of right-of-way, it shall be an affirmative defense that notice as
required by division (A) above was not given to the alleged violator.
   (C)   Non-compliance. Notwithstanding other sanctions set forth in this
chapter, if any of the provisions of this chapter are not complied with, a
permit may be revoked by the city’s Director of Public Works if a person has
not followed the terms, conditions and specifications of this chapter in
construction performed under a prior or current permit. Additional terms
pursuant to this chapter may be required in order for a new permit to be
granted.
   (D)   Grounds for review.
      (1)   If any penalty under §
155.99 of this chapter is imposed against a user, the following procedure shall
be followed.
         (a)   The user may request a review of such penalty by giving notice
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the city’s Director of Public
Works within 45 days from receipt of notice of the penalty imposed. Such notice
must include the reason(s) the user disputes the action taken under this
chapter and section. The city’s Director of Public Works shall review the
penalty and uphold it, modify it or withdraw it and give notice by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the user within ten city-business days from
the date of review. The user has the right to meet personally with the city’s
Director of Public Works for purposes of the review.
         (b)   If the user does not accept the decision of the city’s Director
of Public Works upon receipt of written notice of such decision, the user may
request a review of the penalty by giving notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the City Administrator within ten city-business days from
receipt of notice of the decision of the city’s Director of Public Works. The
City Administrator shall review the decision of the city’s Director of Public
Works and uphold it, modify it or withdraw it and give notice by certified
mail, return receipt requested, to the user within ten city-business days from
the date of review by the City Administrator. The user has the right to meet
personally with the City Administrator for purposes of the review.
         (c)   If the user does not accept the decision of the City
Administrator upon receipt of written notice of such decision, the user may
request a review of the penalty and of the prior decisions by the City Council
by giving notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the City
Administrator, within ten city-business days from receipt of notice of the
decision of the City Administrator. The City Administrator shall then set a
time and place for a review to be held by the City Council and shall give
notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the user. Such
opportunity shall take place in open session of the City Council at a regularly
scheduled meeting after the user makes a timely request; provided that, the
user has complied with all applicable agenda requirements and time schedules.
      (2)   The City Council may uphold, modify or reverse the decision of the
City Administrator and/or the city’s Director of Public Works or refuse a
formal vote on the matter. Refusal of a formal vote has the same effect as
upholding the decision of the City Administrator. The action of the City
Council shall be final.
      (3)   Except in the case of a penalty being imposed under division (D)(1)
above, in the event a user’s construction permit is not timely approved as
required by this chapter, or construction in progress is suspended (other than
that related to restoration), or a user’s permit is revoked, or approval of a
user’s permit is not granted as a result of a decision by the city’s Director
of Public Works under this chapter, such user shall have the right to a review,
but only under the following conditions.
         (a)   The user requests a review by the City Administrator by giving
notice in writing to the City Administrator within five city-business days from
the date of the city’s Director of Public Works’ decision. Such notice must
include the reason(s) the user disputes the action taken under this chapter and
section.
         (b)   The City Administrator shall review the user’s request and
respond to such request within ten city-business days from the date of receipt
of the user’s request, either in writing, by telephone or by meeting with the
user.
         (c)   If the user refuses to accept the decision of the City
Administrator regarding the user’s request, the user may request a review by
the City Council by giving notice in writing to the City Administrator within
five city-business days from the date of the City Administrator’s decision.
Such notice must include the reason(s) the user disputes the decision of the
City Administrator.
      (4)   Upon timely request by the user as set forth in this section, the
City Council shall provide the user the opportunity to appear before them and
present the reason(s) why the user disputes the decision of the City
Administrator. Such opportunity shall take place in open session of the City
Council at the next regular meeting after the user makes a timely request;
provided that, the user has complied with all applicable agenda requirements
and time schedules.
      (5)   The City Council may uphold, modify or reverse the decision of the
City Administrator and/or the city’s Director of Public Works or refuse a
formal vote on the matter. Refusal of a formal vote has the same effect as
upholding the decision of the City Administrator. The action of the City
Council shall be final.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties as otherwise allowed under law may be imposed by the
city’s Director of Public Works for the violation of any section or provision
of this chapter of up to $1,000 for each violation, and each day of a
continuing violation may be considered a new offense, subject to the review
stipulations contained in this chapter or as otherwise required by federal or
state law.
   (B)   In lieu of, or in addition to, the penalties imposed under division
(A) above, the city’s Director of Public Works may also declare a default, deny
or revoke any or all permits granted to allow construction in the right-of-way
where the violation is imposed, subject to the review stipulations contained in
this chapter or as otherwise required by federal or state law.
   (C)   Failure or refusal to pay a civil penalty or penalties or to file for
review by the City Council as set forth herein within 45 calendar days after
receiving written notice by the city’s Director of Public Works of a violation
may result in an order by the city’s Director of Public Works that the party
failing or refusing to make payment is prohibited from operating or using the
right-of-way where the violation is imposed unless and until payment of the
civil penalty or penalties is satisfied.
   (D)   In imposing penalties and their amounts, the city may weigh all
applicable or relevant factors, including, but not limited to, damage or
destruction caused by a violation, reasons for the violation, seriousness of
the violation and any other applicable or relevant factors.
   (E)   In addition to the penalties set forth in this chapter, the City
Council may order specific performance of any actions required by this chapter,
a franchise, license, other agreement or authorization, or permit, including a
permit authorizing work to be performed in the right-of-way.
(Ord. 131101, passed 11-23-2013)
CHAPTER 156:  VACANT PROPERTY
Section
Registration
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Applicability
   
156.04   Definitions
   
156.05   Determination; notice to owner
   
156.06   Registration required; procedure; fees; exception
   
156.07   Maintenance requirements
   
156.08   Security; inspection of property
   
156.09   Violations
   
156.10   Appeals
 
   
156.99   Penalty
REGISTRATION
§ 156.01  TITLE.
   This subchapter is hereby designated and shall be known and referred to as
the “Vacant Property Registration Ordinance of the City”.
(2012 Code, § 34-70)
§ 156.02  PURPOSE.
   It is the intent of the city, through the adoption of this subchapter, to
establish a mechanism to protect residential neighborhoods from decline
resulting from the lack of maintenance and security of abandoned properties and
to establish an abandoned property registration program setting forth
guidelines for the maintenance of abandoned properties.
(2012 Code, § 34-71)
§ 156.03  APPLICABILITY.
   The requirements of this subchapter shall be applicable to each owner of a
residence or structure that has been vacant for more than 90 days, other than a
structure that is owned by a federal, state or local governmental entity or
agency.
(2012 Code, § 34-72)
§ 156.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABATEMENT ORDER. An “order to abate” issued by the Municipal Court Judge
pursuant to the city code of ordinances.
   ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY. Real property that is accessible to the public through
an open and unsecured door, window, gate, fence, wall or other opening.
   ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE. A building or structure that is not secured or is open
in such a way as to allow public or unauthorized access to the interior.
   AGREEMENT. Any written instrument that transfers or conveys title to
residential real property from one owner to another after a sale, trade,
transfer or exchange.
   BUYER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity that agrees to transfer anything of value in consideration for
real property via an “agreement” as that term is defined in this section.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure reasonably deemed by qualified
city staff to represent a violation of any provision specified in §§
150.50 through
150.59 of this code of ordinances.
   DAYS. Calendar days.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Public Works Department or designee or the
City Manager’s designated personnel charged with the enforcement of this
subchapter.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The City Manager, the Building Official, the Director
of Public Works and/or any employee or agent of the city designated and/or
charged with enforcing the city’s code of ordinances, including, but not
limited to, applicable codes adopted by reference therein.
   EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any real property condition that independently, or in
the context of the totality of circumstances relevant to the occupancy of that
real property, would lead a reasonable enforcement official to believe that a
property is vacant or occupied by a person without a legal right of occupancy.
Such real property conditions include, but are not limited to, overgrown or
dead vegetation; accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers or mail; past
due utility notices or disconnected utilities; accumulation of trash, junk or
debris; the absence of window coverings such as curtains, blinds or shutters;
the absence of furnishings or personal items consistent with residential
habitation; and/or statements by neighbors, relatives, friends, acquaintances,
delivery agents or government employees that the property is vacant.
   FORECLOSURE. The process by which real property subject to a deed of trust
is sold to satisfy the debt of a defaulting trustor or borrower.
   NOTICE OF DEFAULT. A recorded instrument that reflects and provides notice
that a default has taken place with respect to a deed of trust, and that a
beneficiary intends to proceed with a trustee’s sale concerning said property.
   NOTICE OF DETERMINATION. The written notice by the Director to an owner that
the structure is a vacant structure, a statement of the factual basis for the
determination and the obligations of the owner of the structure to register.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or other
legal entity having a legal or equitable title or interest in real property.
There is a rebuttable presumption that the County Appraisal District’s records
identify the owner of the property and the owner’s address.
   PROPERTY. Any unimproved or improved real property, or portion thereof,
including, but not limited to, buildings or structures located on said real
property, regardless of condition.
   REGISTRATION FORM. The form provided by the Director for an owner to
register a vacant structure with the city.
   RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. Any improved real property or portion thereof,
designed or permitted to be used for dwelling purposes, including buildings and
structures located on such improved real property. This includes any real
property being offered under any circumstances for sale, trade, transfer or
exchange as “residential”, whether or not said property is legally permitted
and zoned for such use.
   SECURING. Such measures as may be directed by an enforcement official that
assist in rendering real property inaccessible to unauthorized persons,
including, but not limited to, repairing fences and walls, chaining and locking
gates, and repairing or boarding doors, windows or other openings. Such
measures shall be implemented in conformance with all applicable standards of
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.
   VACANT. Any building, structure or real property that is unoccupied or is
occupied by a person without a legal right of occupancy. No person(s) currently
conducts a lawfully licensed business, or lawfully resides or lives in any part
of the structure as the legal or equitable owner(s) or tenancy- occupant(s),
owner-occupants or tenant(s) on a permanent, non-transient basis.
(2012 Code, § 34-73)
§ 156.05  DETERMINATION; NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   If the Director has reason to believe that a structure has been vacant
for a minimum of 90 days and it is unregistered, the Director shall evaluate
the structure and determine if the structure is vacant within the meaning of
this subchapter. If the Director finds the structure is vacant, the Director
shall state such in writing, outlining the factual basis for the determination.
The notice of determination shall be based on the definitions and standards
herein. The Director, or his or her representative, shall give written notice
of determination by either mailing such notice to the owner at the owner’s
address as recorded in the county’s Appraisal District records or by mailing,
personal delivery, or verified facsimile transmission to an owner. If such
notice is addressed and mailed through the United States Postal Service to the
owner at the owner’s address as recorded in the county’s Appraisal District
records and the United States Postal Service returns the notice as “refused” or
“unclaimed”, the validity of the notice is not affected and the notice is
considered delivered.
   (B)   The notice of determination shall identify the structure, street
address or legal description of the property, the factual basis for the
determination and the obligations of an owner to register the structure as set
forth herein.
(2012 Code, § 34-74)
§ 156.06  REGISTRATION REQUIRED; PROCEDURE; FEES; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Registration required.
      (1)   The owner of a vacant structure shall register that structure by
completing and filing with the Director a registration form, completing and
filing with the Director a vacant structure maintenance plan form, and
remitting to the Director the required registration fee within 90 days from the
time that the structure becomes a vacant structure in accordance herewith.
Thereafter, the owner of the vacant structure shall annually register that
vacant structure by completing and filing with the Director the registration
form, completing and filing with the Director the vacant structure maintenance
plan form and remitting to the Director the required registration fee on or
before October 31 of every year until such structure becomes occupied or the
ownership is transferred.
      (2)   Within ten days of identification of any abandoned property by the
Director, the owner must register the property with the city’s Public Works
Department on specified forms. The Director shall provide the registration form
that the owner shall complete and file with the Director. The registration form
shall include the street address of each vacant structure, the name and address
of each owner and any other information deemed necessary for vacant structure
identification by the Director.
      (3)   The Director shall provide a vacant structure maintenance plan form
that the owner shall complete and file with the Director.
      (4)   Properties subject hereto shall remain subject to the annual
registration requirement, security and maintenance standards hereof as long as
they remain vacant.
      (5)   Any person, partnership, association, corporation, fiduciary or
other legal entity that has registered a property hereunder must make a written
report to the city’s Public Works Department of any change of information
contained in the registration within ten days of the change. Any new owner of a
vacant structure shall update the registration of that vacant structure by
completing and filing with the Director a registration form, completing and
filing with the Director a vacant structure maintenance form, and remitting to
the Director the current annual registration fee for that vacant structure, if
it has not been previously paid and, thereafter, annually registering as
described above.
      (6)   The duties/obligations in this section shall be joint and several
among and between all trustees and beneficiaries and their respective agents.
(2012 Code, § 34-75)
   (B)   Registration fees established; payment; use.
      (1)   A registration fee and re-inspection fee is hereby authorized to be
charged to the ownership of all vacant structures. The fees shall be applied to
compensate the city for the cost of administration of the vacant structure
registration program and inspections. The registration and re-inspection fees
shall be established by City Council resolution.
      (2)   The registration fee shall be paid on an annual basis. The
registration fee billing period shall be October 1 through September 30 of each
year (billable in October). The registration fee payment shall be due to the
Director by October 31 of every year until such structure becomes occupied. Re-
inspection fees may be billed monthly and payments shall be due to the Director
within 30 days from the billing date.
      (3)   Registration fees shall be due October 31 of each year in
accordance with this section. The fees are non-refundable and shall not be
retroactively applied or prorated.
      (4)   All registration fees are to be expended during the current billing
year as may be necessary to cover the city’s direct and indirect cost for
administering the registration and inspections required hereby. Should there be
an unexpended balance at the end of any year, the city shall adjust the fees
for the succeeding year, so that the amount produced and paid to the city,
together with the unexpended balance, will be sufficient to pay the expenses of
carrying out the provisions hereof.
      (5)   All fees shall be applied to the year in which they were billed.
(2012 Code, § 34-76)
   (C)   Exception from registration fee.
      (1)   Upon an owner’s written request to the Director for an exception to
the registration fee requirement and a finding by the Director that a vacant
structure qualifies as described below, the following shall be exceptions from
the registration fee requirements hereof:
         (a)   A vacant structure that has a city building permit in issued
status for model/repair;
         (b)   A vacant structure that is being actively marketed for sale or
lease for less than 12 months by a licensed real estate broker or an owner who
is regularly advertising the property;
         (c)   A vacant structure that is under a contract for sale or lease
for less than 12 months; or
         (d)   A vacant structure that is under construction or repairs, not
less than three business days per week, undertaken in compliance with all
applicable laws, including, but not limited to, city permitting requirements.
      (2)   The Director shall issue such finding in writing and mail such
written finding by either mailing such notice to the owner at the owner’s
address as recorded in the county’s Appraisal District records or by mailing,
personal delivery or verified facsimile transmission to the owner.
(2012 Code, § 34-79)
§ 156.07  MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is declared a public nuisance for any person, partnership,
association, corporation, fiduciary or other legal entity that owns, leases,
occupies, controls or manages any property subject to the registration
requirement contained in §
156.06(A) of this chapter to cause, permit or maintain any property condition
contrary to any provision herein. Consequently, the following maintenance
requirements as to any property subject to the registration requirement
contained in §
156.06(A) of this chapter are adopted.
      (1)   Any property subject to this section must comply with the
requirements of §§
91.30 through
91.34 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   In addition, the property shall be maintained free of weeds, dry
brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, building materials, any
accumulation of newspaper, circular flyers, notices (except those required by
federal, state or local law), discarded personal items including, but not
limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material
or any other items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
      (3)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging or
similar marking. Any removal or painting-over of graffiti shall be with an
exterior grade paint that matches the color of the exterior of the structure.
      (4)   Visible front and side yards shall be landscaped. Landscaping
includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges
or similar plantings, decorative rock or bark or artificial turf/sod designed
specifically for residential installation.
      (5)   Landscaping does not include weeds, gravel, broken concrete,
asphalt, plastic sheeting, mulch, indoor-outdoor carpet or any similar
material.
      (6)   Pools and spas shall be maintained in working order so that water
remains clear and free of pollutants and debris, or alternatively shall be
drained and caused to dry. Properties with pools and/or spas must comply with
the minimum security fencing requirements of the city and the state.
   (B)   Adherence to this section does not relieve the beneficiary/trustee or
property owner of obligations set forth in any covenants, conditions and
restrictions and/or homeowners’ association rules and regulations which may
apply to the property.
   (C)   The duties/obligations specified in this section shall be joint and
several among and between all trustees and beneficiaries and their respective
agents.
(2012 Code, § 34-77)
§ 156.08  SECURITY; INSPECTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Properties subject to these requirements shall be maintained in a
secure manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons.
   (B)   SECURE MANNER includes, but is not limited to, closing and locking of
windows, doors (walk-through, sliding and garage), gates and any other opening
that may allow access to the interior of the property and/or structure(s). In
the case of broken windows, SECURING means re-glazing or boarding the window.
   (C)   If the property is owned by a corporation and/or beneficiary/trustee/
owner located outside of the county or the state, a local property management
company shall be contracted to perform weekly inspections to verify that the
requirements of this section, and any other applicable laws, are being met. A
copy of said contract with a local property management company shall be
provided to the city.
   (D)   The owner or his or her designated representative shall inspect the
property on a weekly basis to determine if the property is in compliance with
the requirements hereof. If the property is not in compliance, it is the
owner’s responsibility to bring the property into compliance.
   (E)   The duties and obligations specified in this section shall be joint
and several among and between all trustees and beneficiaries and their
respective agents.
(2012 Code, § 34-78)
§ 156.09  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any violation hereof is a strict liability offense; a violation shall
be deemed to have occurred regardless of a violator’s intent, knowledge or
culpable mental state.
   (B)   It is an offense to:
      (1)   Fail to provide information required hereby;
      (2)   Provide false information on the registration form or vacant
maintenance structure plan form; or
      (3)   Fail to perform an act required hereby.
(2012 Code, § 34-80)
§ 156.10  APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any of the requirements hereof may appeal a
determination made hereunder by submitting a written request for relief to the
City Council. The City Council shall review the request and make a
determination on the appeal at the next Council meeting. The City Council’s
decision shall be final.
(2012 Code, § 34-81)
§ 156.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee thereof who
violates any of the provisions of §§
156.01 through
156.10 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500 for each offense. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   In the event that the city is caused to undertake administrative
action to abate the condition of a property subject to the registration
requirement contained in §
156.06(A) of this chapter, the rights and remedies specified in §
156.09 of this chapter, as well as the following penalties, shall apply.
         (a)   On the administrative penalty due date, each party subject to an
abatement order shall pay an administrative penalty of $1,000.
         (b)   In the event that a violation of §§
156.01 through
156.10 of this chapter addressed by an abatement order has not been abated,
cured, remedied or eliminated by the thirtieth day after the administrative
penalty due date, each party subject to said abatement order shall pay a
supplemental administrative penalty of $5,000.
         (c)   In the event that a violation of §§
156.01 through
156.10 of this chapter addressed by an abatement order has not been abated,
cured, remedied or eliminated by the sixtieth day after the administrative
penalty due date, each party subject to said abatement order shall pay a
supplemental administrative penalty of $10,000.
      (3)   In each instance when a party becomes subject to an administrative
penalty specified in division (B)(2) above, an enforcement official shall issue
an order providing written notice of that party’s obligation to make payment of
said administrative penalty and providing an administrative penalty due date.
Each such order shall constitute a special assessment against the property in
question having the same legal status as an order determining the cost of
abatement of a public nuisance pursuant to the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.34 of this code of ordinances.
      (4)   In each instance when a party becomes subject to an administrative
penalty specified in division (B)(3) above, and the order providing for said
administrative penalty issues when that party is either seeking to perfect its
interest in the subject property subsequent to the recordation of a notice of
default, or is the property’s owner of record, that party is not relieved of
its obligation for the payment of administrative penalties based upon the sale
of the property in question to another.
(2012 Code, § 34-80)
CHAPTER 157:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Statutory authorization
   
157.02   Findings of fact
   
157.03   Statement of purpose
   
157.04   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
157.05   Definitions
   
157.06   Lands to which chapter applies
   
157.07   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
157.08   Establishment of development permit
   
157.09   Compliance
   
157.10   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
157.11   Interpretation
   
157.12   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
157.25   Floodplain Administrator
   
157.26   Permitting procedures
   
157.27   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
157.40   General standards
   
157.41   Specific standards
   
157.42   Subdivision proposals
 
   
157.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   City-county water control, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 551.001 et seq.
   Contracts with conservation districts, see Tex. Agriculture Code § 201.152
   Disaster mitigation, see Tex. Government Code §§ 418.121 et seq.
   Flood Control and Insurance Act, see Tex. Water Code §§ 16.311 et seq.
   Municipal drainage utility systems, see Tex. Local Government Code §§
552.041 et seq.
   Municipal water control, see Tex. Local Government Code §§ 552.001 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in the Flood Control Insurance Act, Tex.
Water Code § 16.315, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
(2012 Code, § 42-1)
§ 157.02  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
flood-proofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(2012 Code, § 42-2)
§ 157.03  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(2012 Code, § 42-3)
§ 157.04  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(2012 Code, § 42-4)
§ 157.05  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO Zone on a
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30 or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year. Also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before 1-1-1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A, M
and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source. (See definition of FLOODING.)
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the
Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National
Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided that, such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, being 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after 12-31-1974, whichever is later, and includes any
subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management purposes,
NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by
a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.
      (1)   (For other than new construction or substantial improvements under
the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. Law No. 97-348), being 16 U.S.C. §§
3501 et seq.), includes substantial improvement and means the date the building
permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date.
      (2)   The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
      (3)   For a substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part
of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions
of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before “start of construction” of the improvement. This term
includes structures, which have incurred “substantial damage”, regardless of
the actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
“historic structure”.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements, see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, being 44 C.F.R. § 60.6.)
   VIOLATION.
      (1)   The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.
      (2)   A structure or other development without the elevation certificate,
other certifications or other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5),
(c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, being 44 C.F.R. Subpart A is presumed to be in
VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(2012 Code, § 42-5)
§ 157.06  LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard with the
jurisdiction of the city.
(2012 Code, § 42-6)
§ 157.07  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), Community Number
480052, dated 1-6-2011, and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 42-7)
§ 157.08  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 42-8)
§ 157.09  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(2012 Code, § 42-9)
§ 157.10  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter and another ordinance, easement, covenant
or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
(2012 Code, § 42-10)
§ 157.11  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(2012 Code, § 42-11)
§ 157.12  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OR LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations.
   (B)   On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(2012 Code, § 42-12)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.25  FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The city’s Planning and Zoning Commission is hereby appointed the
Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this
chapter and other appropriate sections of C.F.R. Title 44 (Emergency Management
and Assistance - National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
(2012 Code, § 42-51)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining
to the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
      (3)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
      (4)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all
necessary permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local
governmental agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.) from which prior approval is
required;
      (5)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field
conditions), the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation;
      (6)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the
state’s Coordinating Agency which is the state’s Water Development Board (TWDB)
and also the state’s Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
      (7)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained; and
      (8)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
157.07 of this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available
from a federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of
§§
157.40 through
157.42 of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 42-52)
§ 157.26  PERMITTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be
presented to the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and
may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing
the location, dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations,
existing and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured
homes, and the location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood
hazard.
      (2)   Additionally, the following information is required:
         (a)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
         (b)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any non-
residential structure shall be flood-proofed;
         (c)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or
architect that the non-residential flood-proofed structure shall meet the
flood-proofing criteria of §
157.41(B) of this chapter;
         (d)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
         (e)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with
division (B) below.
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(2012 Code, § 42-53)
§ 157.27  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   (1)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level; providing, the relevant factors in §
157.26(B) of this chapter have been fully considered.
      (2)   As the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (§
157.03 of this chapter).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief;
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on, or victimization of, the
public or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use; provided that, the criteria outlined in divisions
(A) through (J) above are met and the structure or other development is
protected by methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and
create no additional threats to public safety.
(2012 Code, § 42-54)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 157.40  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(2012 Code, § 42-61)
§ 157.41  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in division (A) above, §§
157.07,
157.25(B),
157.40(B) and
157.42(C) of this chapter, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to at least one foot above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as
proposed in §
157.26(A)(1) of this chapter, is satisfied.
   (B)   Non-residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other non-residential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to at least
one foot above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and
sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the
structure is water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered
professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that
the design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted
standards of practice as outlined in this division (B). A record of such
certification which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) to which such structures are flood-proofed shall be maintained by the
Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize
flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites outside
of a manufactured home park or subdivision, is a new manufactured home park or
subdivision, (and, in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or §
153.25 of this chapter with Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that
are not subject to the provisions of this division (D) be elevated so that
either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at least one foot
above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
(2012 Code, § 42-62)
§ 157.42  SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
157.02,
157.03 and
157.04 of this chapter.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §
157.07 or division (B) above.
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(2012 Code, § 42-63)
§ 157.99  PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this court order
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this court
order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court order or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not more than $500 for each violation, in addition, shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City
Council from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation.
(2012 Code, § 42-65)
CHAPTER 158:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
158.01   Definitions
   
158.02   Purpose
   
158.03   Jurisdiction
   
158.04   Plat required
   
158.05   Building permit
   
158.06   Improvements; endorsement; acceptance
   
158.07   Security for completion of construction
   
158.08   Vacating and amending plats
Plat Contents and Approval Procedure
   
158.20   General
   
158.21   Preliminary plat contents
   
158.22   Final plat contents
   
158.23   Minor plat contents
Plat Review Process
   
158.35   General
   
158.36   Preliminary plat review process
   
158.37   Final plat review process
   
158.38   Minor plat review process
   
158.39   Variances
   
158.40   Appeals
   
158.41   Replatting
Improvements, Reservations and Design
   
158.55   Conformance
   
158.56   Character of land
   
158.57   Monuments
   
158.58   Lot improvements
   
158.59   Streets
   
158.60   Water facilities; fire hydrants
   
158.61   Sewers
   
158.62   Utilities
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT TO THE PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION. The officer
as appointed by the City Council to administer these regulations and to assist
administratively other boards and commissions. If no such officer shall be
appointed, the City Administrator shall also serve as ADMINISTRATIVE ASSISTANT.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his or her
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way or shorelines of
waterways.
   BOND. Any form of security including a cash deposit, surety bond,
collateral, property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory
to the City Council. All BONDS shall be approved by the City Council wherever a
bond is required by these regulations.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind and includes any
structures.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The person designated by the City Administrator to
enforce the building codes. If no such officer shall be appointed, the City
Administrator shall also serve as the BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   CITY. The City of Clifton, Texas.
   COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the
city.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the Commission as a
condition of the approval of the plat.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Clifton.
   DOUBLE FRONT LOT. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on two
streets.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for the use by another and for a
specified purpose of any designated part of his or her property.
   FINAL PLAT. The map or plan or record of a subdivision and any accompanying
material, as described in these regulations.
   FRONTAGE. The side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot, considered to be the width of the lot, but it
shall not be considered as the ordinary side of a corner lot.
   GENERAL PLAN and COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The officially adopted plan for the
physical development of the city, including any unit or part of such plan or
parts thereof.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT and HEALTH OFFICER. The county agency or person
administering the health regulations regulating septic systems within the
corporate limits and the county.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Building structures or additions thereto, grading, street
surfacing, sidewalks, crosswalks, culverts, bridges, water and sanitary and
storm sewer lines, other utilities and other required features.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system or any other approved sewage treatment device.
   LOT. An undivided tract or parcel of land which is, or in the future may be,
offered for sale, conveyance, transfer or improvement, which is designated as a
distinct and separate tract or parcel, and which is or will be identified by a
number or symbol on a plat which has or may be filed for record.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle of such intersection not exceeding 155 degrees.
   LOT, SPLIT. Any division of land into two or more parcels for the purpose
whether immediate or future of transfer of ownership and which does constitute
subdivision, as herein defined as a minor subdivision.
   MAJOR DEVELOPMENT. Any development which is neither minor, nor staged, as
those terms are herein defined.
   MINOR DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   The creation of a plat:
         (a)   Involving four or fewer lots;
         (b)   Each of which fronts on an existing public road or street;
         (c)   Encompassing all of applicant’s contiguous property;
         (d)   Not requiring variance of the regulations of the city governing
the development; and
         (e)   Not requiring the creation or extension of any street, road,
utility or other municipal facilities.
      (2)   See Tex. Local Government Code § 212.0065.
   OPEN SPACE. Land which may be dedicated for general use by the public
including parks, recreation areas, bicycle paths, walking paths, community or
public building sites and other lands.
   PLAT. A map of a lot, tract or parcel of land or a map of a subdivision of
lands into lots, streets, alleys, easements or other parts of land or
dedications of parts of land to public uses. A subdivider shall cause to be
prepared a PLAT by a registered surveyor or registered engineer in accordance
with this chapter.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The initial drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. Defined in the city’s Policy Manual.
   REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and registered in the
state.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and registered
in the state.
   REPLAT. Whether the application is for a major development, staged
development or minor development, provisions for REPLATS in §
158.41(A) of this chapter shall apply if the application shall mean a change in
a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat if such change affects:
      (1)   Any street layout on such map;
      (2)   Areas reserved thereon for public use;
      (3)   Any lot line by relocation, addition or deletion; or
      (4)   If it affects any map or plat legally recorded prior to the
adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land dedicated and occupied or intended to be
occupied by a street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line,
oil or gas pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main or for other
special use.
   SCREENING. A strip of ground densely planted with shrubs or trees at least
four feet high at the time of planting or an opaque wall or barrier at least
six feet high.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and the street line nearest
thereto.
   SHALL, MAY. The word “shall” is always mandatory. The word “may” is merely
directory.
   STAGED DEVELOPMENT. A development which does not qualify as a minor
development and where a developer, owning one or more tracts of contiguous
property, who intends to develop the property in stages or units and/or to
presently develop only a part of it under a final plat covering only that
portion of his or her property to be immediately developed, leaving the balance
of it for later development under one or more other final plats. An applicant
who owns a tract of land and is only securing a final plat on a portion of it
is engaged in STAGED DEVELOPMENT.
   STREETS. A way for vehicular traffic whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or however
otherwise designated.
   STREETS, ALLEYS. Minor ways which are used primarily for vehicular service
access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   STREETS, COLLECTOR. Those which carry traffic from minor streets to the
major system of arterial streets and highways, including the principal entrance
street of a residential development and streets for circulation within such a
development.
   STREETS, CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREETS, MAJOR THOROUGHFARES OR ARTERIAL STREETS. Principal traffic arteries
more or less continuous across the city, which are intended to connect remote
parts of the city and which are used primarily for fast or heavy volume traffic
and shall include, but not be limited to, each street designated as a major
street on the thoroughfare plan.
   STREETS, MINOR. Those which are used primarily for access to the abutting
residential properties and which are intended to serve traffic within a limited
residential district.
   SUBDIVIDER and DEVELOPER. Synonymous and used interchangeably, and shall
include any person, partnership, firm, association or corporation who or which
owns the property and any officer, agent, employee, servant and trustee thereof
who does or participates in the doing of any act toward the subdivision of land
within the intent, scope and purview of this chapter. The singular shall
include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   The division of any lot, tract or parcel of land into two or more
parts, lots or sites, for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of sale or
division of ownership.
      (2)   This definition also includes the resubdivision of land or lots,
which are a part of a previously recorded subdivision.
      (3)   The definition shall also include the division of a lot or tract of
land into two or more parts for the purpose of laying out lots, streets,
utility easements, parks or public use or any addition to any lot or tract of
land within the city limits or within the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The official plan of highways, primary and secondary
thoroughfares, parkways and other major streets, including collector streets,
adopted by the Planning and Zoning Commission and City Council.
   V.T.C.A. Vernon’s Texas Codes Annotated.
(2012 Code, § 77-1)
§ 158.02  PURPOSE.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens;
   (B)   To guide the future growth and development of the city in accordance
with the general plan for the city;
   (C)   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy to secure safety from
fire, flood and other danger and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
concentration of population;
   (D)   To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage and other utilities,
parks and other public requirements and facilities;
   (E)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land;
   (F)   To ensure that public facilities are available and will have a
sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision; and
   (G)   To prevent the pollution of air and water, to assure the adequacy of
drainage facilities, to safeguard the water table and to encourage the wise use
and management of natural resources throughout the city in order to preserve
the integrity, stability and beauty of the community.
(2012 Code, § 77-2)
§ 158.03  JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all subdivisions of land
located within the corporate limits of the city and within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   These subdivision regulations are passed and implemented under the
authority of Tex. Local Government Code Ch. 212.
(2012 Code, § 77-3)
§ 158.04  PLAT REQUIRED.
   The owner of a tract of land, located within the city limits or
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city, who proposes a subdivision of his or
her tract, or who divides the tract into two or more parts to lay out a
building or other lots, or to lay out streets, alleys, parks or other parts of
the tract intended to be dedicated to public use or for the use of purchasers
or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent to the streets, alleys, parks or
other parts, must have a plat of the subdivision prepared and must adhere to
and comply with the terms, provisions and conditions of this chapter. A
division of a tract under this section includes a division regardless of the
method used to describe the property, whether it is by a metes and bounds or
other description, and regardless of the method or type of document utilized to
effect the division, whether by a deed of conveyance, contract for deed,
contract of sale or other executory contract to convey. A division of land into
parts greater than five acres does not require a plat where each part has
public road access and no public improvement is being dedicated, per Tex. Local
Government Code § 212.004.
(2012 Code, § 77-21)
§ 158.05  BUILDING PERMIT.
   No moving, building or other construction related permit shall be issued for
work on any property which has not been platted, as defined at §
158.01 of this chapter, with the following exceptions:
   (A)   For maintenance, improvement, repairs and/or remodeling of an existing
house or other building, so long as such work does not cause or result in an
increase in the size of the house or other building;
   (B)   For repairs, maintenance, improvement and replacement of roofs and
siding;
   (C)   To move in or to build a fully enclosed storage building with no more
than 300 square feet of enclosed floor space area to be used in conjunction
with and accessory to an existing house or other building situated on the same
property;
   (D)   To build a fully enclosed addition to an existing house or other
building, which addition constitutes not more than 25% of the existing floor
space living area of the house or existing floor space area of the other
building or 500 square feet, whichever is larger;
   (E)   To build an addition to an existing garage or carport used in
conjunction with and accessory to an existing house situated on the same
property, so long as the garage or carport as finished is not more than 1,000
square feet;
   (F)   To build an attached or unattached garage or carport consisting of not
more than 1,000 square feet floor space area to be used in conjunction with and
accessory to an existing house on the same property;
   (G)   To do electrical, plumbing or mechanical work on an existing house or
building; and
   (H)   To build a fence.
(2012 Code, § 77-22)
§ 158.06  IMPROVEMENTS; ENDORSEMENT; ACCEPTANCE.
   (A)   Construction of improvements.
      (1)   The developer shall file with the Building Official detailed plans
and specifications of and for construction of all public improvements,
including, but not limited to, plats, sketches and other satisfactory written
descriptions, showing such features as roadways, cross-sections and
longitudinal slope of drainage, full description of proposed pavement or street
improvements, its grade and slope, dimensions and specifications concerning
public utilities to be installed showing proposed position on the ground,
specifications of materials and construction, and profile maps of all sanitary
and storm sewers showing both ground surface and flow line, and any other
pertinent information of a similar nature.
      (2)   The developer shall file with the Building Official the following
construction plans for the improvements to be installed:
         (a)   The centerline and curb elevations of each proposed street;
         (b)   A cross-section of each proposed street showing the width of
pavement, the location and width of sidewalks, if required, and the location
and size of utility mains;
         (c)   The plans and profiles of proposed sanitary sewers and storm
water sewers with grades and sizes indicated or the method of sewage or storm
water disposal in lieu of sewers;
         (d)   A plan of the proposed water distribution system, showing pipe
sizes and the location of valves and fire hydrants; and
         (e)   A drainage plan showing all existing and proposed storm sewers,
manholes, catch-basins, watercourses, culverts and other underground structures
within the tract and immediately adjacent thereto with pipe sizes and grades
and water openings indicated thereon. The drainage plan shall show the method
to be used for the adequate disposal of all storm water including drainage
outlets and such other data as may be required by the City Engineer, Commission
or Council.
      (3)   Construction of the public improvements shall not commence until
after:
         (a)   The final plat has been approved by the Commission and Council;
         (b)   The Building Official has approved the construction plans and
specifications as being in conformity with the final plat and all standards,
rules and regulations applicable to the improvements and construction of the
improvements; and
         (c)   The Public Works Director has approved those portions of the
plans relating to water and sewer installations.
      (4)   If the final plat has been approved by the Council and the
Commission, the public improvements, streets and utilities provided for in the
final plat shall be constructed in conformity with the final plat and Building
Official approved plans and specifications.
      (5)   Construction must be completed within 12 months after the approval
of the final plat by the Council; provided that, the time may be extended by
the Council.
      (6)   The developer, contractors and subcontractors, upon completion of
construction, shall provide a one-year warranty to the city that all
improvements are free of defects in workmanship and free of faulty materials,
and providing that they will, in a timely, good and workmanlike manner, correct
and repair all such defects and faults and all damage caused thereby; provided,
such defect, fault or damage appears or manifests itself within one year after
completion of the improvements.
      (7)   Upon the completion of construction, a copy of the “as-built” final
plans, dated, signed and certified by the engineer in charge shall be filed
with the Building Official showing all features as actually installed,
including materials, size, locations, depth, elevation, ends of lines, valves,
fittings, storm sewer lines, inlets and other pertinent items. No connections
to such utilities may be made until the foregoing has been complied with.
      (8)   The developer shall build and pay for all costs of temporary
improvements required and shall maintain same for a period specified by the
Council. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement, the
developer shall ensure that the temporary facilities will be properly
constructed, maintained and removed.
      (9)   All required improvements shall be made by the developer at his or
her expense without reimbursement by the city or any improvement district
except as provided below. The Commission and the Council may require excess
improvements which they determine to be necessary to the city. Such excess
improvements may include, but are not necessarily limited to, oversized storm
drainage or utility lines to service areas at and beyond the proposed
subdivision. In such cases, the city may participate in the cost of such
improvements.
      (10)   (a)   The developer shall provide for inspection of required
improvements during construction and ensure their satisfactory completion; and
         (b)   The inspections, if any, done by the city are for its own
benefit and information, not that of the developer, any lot owner or other
party with or acquiring an interest in, any of the property in the subdivision.
(2012 Code, § 77-86)
   (B)   Endorsement of plat by city and recording.
      (1)   No final plat may be filed in the real property records of the
county, unless it has been signed by all required parties and contains all
required certificates.
      (2)   No final plat, with the exception of minor plats, may be signed by
city representatives, until:
         (a)   It has been approved by the Council and the Commission after
full compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
         (b)   The public improvements have been completed in conformity with
the final plat, Building Official approved plans and specifications, the
warranty instrument and as-built final drawings have been delivered to the
city; or security meeting the requirements of §
158.07 of this chapter has been given to the city; and
         (c)   A title opinion by developer’s attorney or an abstract of title
have been furnished to and approved by the city’s attorney indicating that the
improvements are free and clear of any liens and encumbrances; or, if a
developer puts up security under §
158.07 of this chapter, a title opinion by developer’s attorney or an abstract
of title have been furnished to and approved by the city’s attorney describing
all liens and encumbrances on the land to be dedicated as public improvements
and a written commitment from all lien holders in recordable form and approved
by the city’s attorney obligating them to release all liens upon completion of
the improvements has been furnished to the city.
      (3)   This section applies to townhouses only. In addition to the
requirements applicable to any other plat, a final plat of a townhouse
development may not be filed until the buildings (each townhouse being for this
purpose, considered as a separate building) which are to be connected together
with zero- foot lot lines and common walls are completed, at which time the
plat for the lots and land upon which such buildings are located may be filed
of record and the plat as to all lands not containing building lots may be
filed of record. Thereafter, a final plat as to land upon which any other
series of connected buildings are to be located may be filed as and when the
buildings are completed.
      (4)   Every final plat which has been completed in accordance with this
chapter must be recorded in the appropriate real property records of the office
of the County Clerk.
(2012 Code, § 77-91)
   (C)   Acceptance of improvements.
      (1)   Public improvements constructed by an owner or developer as part of
the subdivision process will not be accepted, unless and until: the
improvements are completed in accordance with the final plat and in accordance
with the construction plans and specifications approved by the Building
Official; the Building Official has submitted a certificate stating that all
required improvements have been satisfactorily completed; and the developer’s
registered engineer or registered surveyor has certified to the Building
Official, through submission of a detailed as-built plan of the subdivision,
indicating location, dimensions, materials and such other information as may be
reasonably required by the Building Official, that the layout of the line and
grade of all public improvements is in accordance with construction plans for
the subdivision.
      (2)   Approval of a final plat does not constitute acceptance of any
proposed dedication and does not impose on the city any duty regarding the
maintenance or improvement of any dedicated parts, until the city makes an
actual appropriation of the dedicated parts by entry, use or improvement, per
Tex. Local Government Code § 212.011(a).
(2012 Code, § 77-96)
   (D)   Maintenance of improvements. The developer shall be required to
maintain all improvements until acceptance of the improvements by the Council.
(2012 Code, § 77-97)
§ 158.07  SECURITY FOR COMPLETION OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The Council may, in its discretion, accept security in lieu of completed
construction as a condition precedent to signature and recording of the final
plat; provided, however:
   (A)   The security must be in the form of a cash deposit or letter of
credit;
   (B)   The security must be in an amount at least sufficient to complete
construction of all improvements, in accordance with the final plat, the
approved construction plans and specifications and all standards, rules and
regulations applicable to the improvements and their constructions, without
cost to the city, plus 10%;
   (C)   Such letter or cash deposit agreement shall be approved as to form,
sufficiency and manner of execution by the city’s attorney and City
Administrator;
   (D)   The terms, provisions and conditions of any letter of credit or
deposit agreement must be approved by the city’s attorney and City
Administrator;
   (E)   The letter of credit must be an unconditional guarantee, issued by a
bank or other financial institution approved by the Council, agreeing to pay
the city on demand a stipulated sum of money to apply to the estimated cost of
installation of all improvements for which the developer is responsible;
   (F)   Periodic withdrawals may be made from the cash deposit account for a
progressive payment of installation cost. The amounts of such withdrawals shall
be based upon progress work estimates and approved by the City Administrator.
The amount on deposit shall at all times be no less than the minimum security
required hereunder; and
   (G)   The security will not be released until the improvements have been
accepted by the city, except for periodic releases of cash security as and to
the extent allowed hereunder.
(2012 Code, § 77-101)
§ 158.08  VACATING AND AMENDING PLATS.
   (A)   Vacation where no lots sold. The owners of a tract covered by an
existing plat may vacate the plat at any time before any lot in the plat is
sold. The plat is vacated when a signed, acknowledged instrument declaring the
plat vacated is approved and recorded in the manner prescribed for the original
plat.
(2012 Code, § 77-106)
   (B)   Vacation where lots sold. If lots in the plat have been sold, the
plat, or any part of it, may be vacated on the application of all the owners of
the lots in the plat with approval obtained in the manner prescribed for the
original plat.
(2012 Code, § 77-107)
   (C)   Vacation effect. On execution and recording of the vacating
instrument, the vacated plat has no effect.
(2012 Code, § 77-108)
   (D)   Amending plats.
      (1)   Appointment of designated employee. The Council shall appoint, by
resolution, a city employee to serve as the designated employee for the purpose
of administering this section. In the absence of such appointment or in the
event the designated employee fails or ceases to serve or continue to serve as
such, the Building Official shall serve as the designated employee, per Tex.
Local Government Code § 212.065(a).
      (2)   Amending plats. A plat amending a preceding plat may be recorded
and is controlling over the preceding plat without vacation of the preceding
plat, if the amending plat is signed by the applicants and is solely for one of
the purposes expressly allowed under Tex. Local Government Code § 212.016.
Amending plats may be approved by the designated employee without the necessity
of Commission or Council approval and without the necessity of notice, hearing
or approval of other lot owners, per Tex. Local Government Code § 212.016.
(2012 Code, § 77-109)
PLAT CONTENTS AND APPROVAL PROCEDURE
§ 158.20  GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   There are three types of development classification: staged
development; major development; and minor development; each of which is defined
above at §
158.01 of this chapter. The classification assigned to a development determines
the procedures and steps which must be taken by a developer to secure final
plat approval for his or her development. Regardless of the classification,
public hearing and other procedural requirements may also apply if the
development involves replatting.
      (2)   The three types of development are briefly described in this
section and are more specifically addressed under §
158.35 of this chapter.
   (B)   The platting process is explained commencing at §
158.35 of this chapter. Any developments with replat conditions must follow
additional requirements described in §
158.41(A) of this chapter.
      (1)   Staged development.
         (a)   A developer of a staged development, as defined above at §
158.01 of this chapter, shall file and secure approval of a preliminary plat
and a final plat or plats.
         (b)   He or she has the option of filing for the approval of both the
preliminary and final plats at the same time.
         (c)   He or she is required to secure approval of the preliminary and
final plats by the Commission and the Council.
      (2)   Major development.
         (a)   A developer of a major development, as defined above at §
158.01 of this chapter, need only file and secure approval of a final plat,
except where public improvements are to be constructed, in which event,
preliminary plat approval is also required.
         (b)   He or she has the option of filing for approval of both the
preliminary, if any, and final plats at the same time.
         (c)   He or she is required to secure approval of the preliminary
plat, if any, and the final plat by the Commission and the Council.
      (3)   Minor development.
         (a)   A developer of a minor development, as defined above at §
158.01 of this chapter, need only file and secure approval of a final plat, by
the Building Official.
         (b)   He or she is allowed, but not required, except under certain
circumstances, to proceed as a major development.
(2012 Code, § 77-26)
§ 158.21  PRELIMINARY PLAT CONTENTS.
   The preliminary plat must contain and be accompanied by the following
information and documents and meet the following requirements before it can be
considered filed for approval.
   (A)   The preliminary plat application shall:
      (1)   State the name, business addresses and telephone numbers of the
owners, engineer and surveyor;
      (2)   Describe the legal ownership interest of all owners in the tract;
      (3)   Cover all of the applicant’s contiguous property;
      (4)   State the type of development;
      (5)   Be accompanied by a written memorandum from the Public Works
Director stating that the city has received a copy of the preliminary plat,
concurs in the preliminary illustration of water and sewer utilities and either
objects to or approves of the proposed plat;
      (6)   State the source for water service;
      (7)   State the source for sewer service;
      (8)   Provide a full legal description of the property covered by the
preliminary plat, including all of applicant’s contiguous property; and
      (9)   Be accompanied by a copy of all private covenants and restrictions
applicable to the land.
   (B)   The preliminary plat map shall include the following:
      (1)   All the applicants contiguous property, even though it is intended
by the applicant to file multiple final plats and install improvements for
parts of the property by section or unit depicted in separate final plats;
      (2)   The proposed plan of subdivision, showing proposed streets, blocks,
lots, alleys, easements, building lines, required yard adjacent to streets,
parks and the like, with principle dimensions;
      (3)   The location, width and name of existing streets and any blocks,
lots, alleys, easements, building lines and watercourses or other natural
features in the area affected, with principal dimensions, and any other
significant information on all sides for a distance of 200 feet;
      (4)   The names of proposed streets. Such names shall conform to the
names of existing streets of which they may be or become extensions, but
otherwise shall not duplicate or conflict with the recognized name of any other
street located in the city or its extra territorial jurisdiction;
      (5)   The location of existing sewers, water and gas mains and other
public utilities, if any;
      (6)   The proposed general plan for sewer, water, gas and other public
utilities in sufficient detail to indicate size and location of lines and
structures;
      (7)   Proposed general plan for storm water drainage sufficiently
detailed to indicate the location of drainage ditches or structures and the
direction of flow;
      (8)   Zoning district classification of the area being platted;
      (9)   The name of the proposed subdivision, north arrow, scale and date;
      (10)   The name of the owners and the engineer and/or surveyor;
      (11)   Typical cross-section of proposed street improvements; and
      (12)   The seal of the surveyor or engineer responsible for the
preparation of the preliminary plat map.
(2012 Code, § 77-37)
§ 158.22  FINAL PLAT CONTENTS.
   The final plat must contain and be accompanied by the following information
and documents, and meet the following requirements before it can be considered
filed for approval.
   (A)   The final plat application shall include the following:
      (1)   The same information as is required under §
158.21(A) of this chapter, with respect to preliminary plats;
      (2)   A statement signed by the registered engineer or land surveyor
preparing the plat map, stating that he or she has to the best of his or her
ability designed the subdivision in accordance with the city ordinances and
regulations governing the development, platting and subdivision of land, except
where a variance is requested, the reasons for which shall be clearly stated;
      (3)   A statement signed by the owners that all information contained in
or submitted as part of the platting process is true and correct, and that all
public improvements required as part of the development will be constructed in
accordance with the final plat and in accordance with all ordinances, rules and
regulations of the city governing the development, platting and subdivision of
land; and
      (4)   A vicinity sketch or key map showing and containing the same
information as is required under §
158.21(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   The final plat map shall include the following:
      (1)   The title or name by which the subdivision is to be identified,
north arrow, the scale of the map and the seal and name of the state registered
professional land surveyor responsible for preparation of the map;
      (2)   A definite legal description and identification of the tract being
subdivided. This description shall be sufficient for the requirements of title
examination;
      (3)   The boundaries of the subdivided property, the location or
designation of all streets, alleys, parks and other areas intended to be
dedicated or deeded to public use with proper dimensions. The boundaries of the
subdivision shall be indicated by a heavy line and shall be tied by dimension
to the established centerline of all existing boundary streets;
      (4)   The location of all adjacent streets and alleys, with their names
and the names of adjoining subdivisions with exact location and designation by
number of adjoining lots and blocks;
      (5)   All lot, block and street boundary lines, with blocks and lots
numbered or lettered consecutively. The area of each lot in square feet or
acreage, building lines, required yards adjacent to streets and easements shall
be shown and shall be defined by dimension. Actual widths of all street rights-
of-way shall be shown, measured at right angles or radially, where curved. All
principal lines shall have the bearing and any deviations from the norm shall
be indicated;
      (6)   Accurate dimensions, both linear and angular, of all items on the
plat. The boundary survey on the site shall close within one in 10,000. Linear
dimensions shall be expressed in feet and decimals of a foot. Angular
dimensions may be shown by bearings. Curved boundaries shall be fully described
and all essential information given. Circular curves shall be defined by actual
length of radius and not by degree of curve. Complete dimensional data shall be
given on fractional lots;
      (7)   The location and description of all lot and block corners and
permanent survey reference monuments. The plat shall reflect whether such
corners or monuments have been found or set by the surveyor. All new corners
and monuments shall be of three-quarter inch iron pipe or five-eighths inch
iron rod and shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   Lot corners of usual and customary length with the top set flush
with ground;
         (b)   Block corners of usual and customary length with the top set
flush with ground and shall include the beginning and end of all curves within
each block; and
         (c)   Reference points of usual and customary length, placed one foot
below the surface of the finished ground elevation at suitable locations
throughout the subdivision. There shall be at least as many reference points as
there are blocks in the subdivision, but not less than two, and the distance
between successive monuments along any street or reference line shall not be
greater than 1,000 feet. Reference points shall be other than and in addition
to markers set for block or lot corners.
      (8)   Public improvement dedication certificate substantially as follows:
“The undersigned, being all of the owners of the property covered by this plat
map, hereby dedicate to and for the public and the city, in perpetuity, the
public areas, shown on this plat map, including all easements, rights-of-way,
streets, alleys, squares, parks and other public parts of the tract.” This
certificate shall be signed and acknowledged by all owners of any interest in
the land. The form of acknowledgment shall be as required for the
acknowledgment of deeds. Written, signed approval and acceptance of such
dedication by all lien holders shall be included;
      (9)   A certificate by the responsible surveyor or engineer in charge,
duly authenticated, that the plat is true and correct and in accordance with
the determination of surveys actually made on the ground. If the surveyor or
engineer who prepared the plat did not make the boundary survey, this fact
should be noted in the certificate. Also, the certificate should show whether
or not the tract is within the city limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the city, unless the information is shown in suitable manner elsewhere on the
face of the plat;
      (10)   The final plat map shall be signed by all owners of the platted
tract and their signatures shall be acknowledged in the manner required for
deed recordation, per Tex. Local Government Code § 212.004(c);
      (11)   The final plat map shall be signed by all lien holders in approval
and their signatures shall be acknowledged in the manner required for deed
recordation; and
      (12)   In addition to other required certificates, the following signed
certificates shall be on the plat map preceding the certificate of the County
Clerk:
         (a)   Final plat Planning and Zoning Commission approval.
 
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF BOSQUE
 
This final plat of the herein described property was approved on behalf of the City of Clifton, Texas, by the Planning
and Zoning Commission on the              day of                    , 20     .
 
                                                                                             
Chairperson of Planning and Zoning Commission
 
                                                                                             
City Secretary
 
         (b)   Final plat City Council approval.
 
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF BOSQUE
 
This final plat of the herein described property was approved on behalf of the City of Clifton by the City Council on
the              day of                          , 20         .
 
                                                                                             
Mayor
 
                                                                                             
City Secretary
 
         (c)   Container usage. If a subdivision is located in an area not
served by a sanitary sewer system and septic tanks are to be used, the
following form shall be included on the plat:
 
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF BOSQUE
 
Approved by the Bosque County Health Department on the                day of                        , 20         . Any
private water supply and/or sewage system shall be approved by the Bosque County Health Department prior to
installation.
 
                                                                                             
Public Health Engineer
 
(2012 Code, § 77-38)
§ 158.23  MINOR PLAT CONTENTS.
   The minor plat application must contain and be accompanied by the following
information and documents and meet the following requirements before it can be
considered filed for approval.
   (A)   The minor plat application shall:
      (1)   State the name, business addresses and telephone numbers of the
owners, engineer and/or surveyor;
      (2)   Describe the legal ownership interest of all owners in the tract;
      (3)   Contain a statement signed by the registered engineer or land
surveyor preparing the plat stating that he or she has to the best of his or
her ability designed the subdivision in accordance with the ordinances and
regulations governing the development, platting and subdivision of land;
      (4)   State the source for water service;
      (5)   State the source for sewer service;
      (6)   Provide a full legal description of the property covered by the
minor plat; and
      (7)   Be accompanied by a written certificate from the Public Works
Director stating that the city has received a copy of the minor plat, concurs
that water and sewer is available to the lots without construction of public
improvements and either objects to or approves of the proposed plat.
   (B)   The minor plat map shall include the following:
      (1)   The title or name by which the subdivision is to be identified,
north arrow, the scale of the map and the seal and name of the state registered
professional land surveyor or engineer responsible for preparation of the map;
      (2)   A definite legal description and identification of the tract being
subdivided. This description shall be sufficient for the requirements of title
examination;
      (3)   The boundaries of the subdivided property. The boundaries of the
subdivision shall be indicated by a heavy line and shall be tied by dimension
to the established centerline of all existing boundary streets;
      (4)   The location of all adjacent streets and alleys, with their names
and the names of adjoining subdivisions with exact location and designation by
number of adjoining lots and blocks;
      (5)   All lot and block lines, with blocks and lots, numbered or lettered
consecutively. The area of each lot in square feet or acreage, building lines,
required yards adjacent to streets and easements shall be shown and shall be
defined by dimension. All principal lines shall have the bearing, and any
deviations from the norm shall be indicated;
      (6)   Accurate dimensions, both linear and angular, of all items on the
plat. Linear dimensions shall be scaled as per current practice and expressed
in feet and decimals of a foot. Angular dimensions may be shown by bearings.
Curved boundaries shall be fully described and all essential information given.
Circular curves shall be defined by actual length of radius and not by degree
of curve. Complete dimensional data shall be given on fractional lots;
      (7)   The location and description of all lot and block corners and
permanent survey reference monuments. The plat shall reflect whether such
corners or monuments have been found or set by the surveyor. All new corners
and monuments shall be of three-quarter inch iron pipe or five-eighths inch
iron rod and shall meet the following standards:
         (a)   Lot corners of usual and customary length with the top set flush
with ground;
         (b)   Block corners of usual and customary length with the top set
flush with ground and shall include the beginning and end of all curves within
each block; and
         (c)   Reference points of usual and customary length, placed one foot
below the surface of the finished ground elevation at suitable locations
throughout the subdivision. There shall be at least as many reference points as
there are blocks in the subdivision, but not less than two, and the distance
between successive monuments along any street or reference line shall not be
greater than 1,000 feet. Reference points shall be other than and in addition
to markers set for block or lot corners.
      (8)   A certificate by the responsible surveyor or engineer in charge,
duly authenticated, that the plat is true and correct and in accordance with
the determination of surveys actually made on the ground. If the surveyor or
engineer who prepared the plat did not make the boundary survey, this fact
should be noted in the certificate. Also, the certificate should show whether
or not the tract is within the city limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the city, unless the information is shown in suitable manner elsewhere on the
face of the plat;
      (9)   The minor plat map shall be signed by all owners of the platted
tract and their signatures shall be acknowledged in the manner required for
deed recordation, per Tex. Local Government Code § 212.004; and
      (10)   In addition to other required certificates, the following forms
shall be entered on the plat following the certificates of owner, engineer and
the like and preceding the certificate of the County Clerk:
 
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF BOSQUE
 
This final plat of the herein described property was approved on behalf of the City of Clifton, Texas, by the City
Building Official on the            day of                              , 20           .
 
                                                                                   
City Building Official
 
(2012 Code, § 77-39)
PLAT REVIEW PROCESS
§ 158.35  GENERAL.
   (A)   Whenever reference is made to a preliminary plat or to a final plat,
it means the plat document itself, plus all information and other documents
required to be contained in or to accompany the plat as part of the platting
process, unless the context requires otherwise. One exception is when reference
is made to the filing of the final plat with the County Clerk, because the only
document so filed is the final plat map itself.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission and the City Council, in accordance
with Tex. Local Government Code § 212.010, shall approve a plat if:
      (1)   It conforms to the general plan of the city and its current and
future streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds and public utility facilities;
      (2)   It conforms to the general plan for the extension of the city and
its roads, streets and public highways within the city and in its
extraterritorial jurisdiction, taking into account, access to and extension of
sewer and water mains and the instrumentalities of public utilities; and
      (3)   It conforms to all rules adopted in accordance with Tex. Local
Government Code § 212.002 for and governing the platting and subdivision of
land within the city’s jurisdiction, as set forth in this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 77-56)
§ 158.36  PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   The designation of the plat as “preliminary” is not intended as an
indication that the preliminary plat is of less importance than the final plat.
The preliminary plat serves as the foundation of the final plat or plats. The
final plat must conform to the preliminary plat it follows and generally may
vary therefrom only in that it will provide more detail and specificity and may
be changed to conform with approved conditions. (The term “approved conditions”
is hereinafter explained.) Nevertheless, approval of a preliminary plat does
not constitute approval of the final plat or bind the Commission or the Council
to approve a final plat. For example, a change of circumstances between the
date when the preliminary plat was approved and the date when a final plat is
to be approved, the discovery, before approval of a final plat, of facts not
known at the time the preliminary plat was approved, or the discovery of a
mistake of law or fact may all result in the disapproval of a final plat even
though it conforms with a previously approved preliminary plat. The Commission
and the Council act independently of each other in the plat review process, and
the approval of both the preliminary plat and each final plat by each body is
required, per Tex. Local Government Code § 212.006. They, or it, as
appropriate, may approve, approve conditionally or disapprove a plat. In the
case of conditional approval, if a developer does not accept the conditions,
the plat shall be disapproved and, in the absence of express disapproval, is
deemed disapproved. If a plat is approved with conditions accepted by the
developer, the conditions shall be and constitute part of the plat, and the
plat shall be altered, changed, modified and/or accompanied by such information
and other documents as required by the approved conditions. If the Commission
approves a plat with certain conditions, the Council may not approve the plat
without those conditions and may not impose other conditions in addition to the
Commission’s approved conditions. The Council is limited to either approving or
disapproving that which has been approved by the Commission.
   (B)   (1)   A preliminary plat must be filed, except in cases where the
minor plat review process applies. The preliminary plat must first be filed
with the Commission. Filing is accomplished by delivering the completed
application, the requested number of copies of the plat to the Building
Official, and paying a filing fee established by resolution of the Council.
This filing fee is in addition to the filing fee applicable to the final plat
application.
      (2)   The Commission shall, within 30 days after filing, either approve
or disapprove the preliminary plat. The preliminary plat is deemed approved by
the Commission, unless it is disapproved within the 30-day period or such
longer time as may be agreed upon by the developer and the Commission, per Tex.
Local Government Code § 212.009(a).
      (3)   If the preliminary plat is approved by the Commission, whether
approval be actual or deemed, then within 30 days after the preliminary plat is
approved by the Commission or is deemed approved by the inaction of the
Commission, the Council shall either approve or disapprove the preliminary
plat. The preliminary plat is deemed approved by the Council, unless it is
disapproved within the 30-day period or such longer time as may be agreed upon
by the developer and the Council, per Tex. Local Government Code § 212.009(b).
      (4)   As part of the preliminary plat approval process in cases of staged
development, the Commission and the Council shall establish a schedule for
development of the contiguous property and filing of the final plat or plats
applicable thereto. Failure to file a final plat on schedule shall result in
automatic termination of the preliminary plat; provided that, the Commission
and Council may extend the time for filing a final plat.
      (5)   The preliminary plat may be filed with and approved at the same
time as the final plat in which event the preliminary plat and final plat
approval processes will run concurrently, rather than consecutively.
(2012 Code, § 77-57)
§ 158.37  FINAL PLAT REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission and the Council act independently of each other
in the plat review process, and the approval of the final plat by each body is
required. They, or it, as appropriate, may approve, approve conditionally or
disapprove a plat. In the case of conditional approval, if the developer does
not accept the conditions, the plat shall be disapproved and, in the absence of
express disapproval, is deemed disapproved.
      (2)   If a plat is approved with conditions accepted by the developer,
the conditions thence forth shall be and constitute part of the plat, and the
plat shall be altered, changed, modified and/or accompanied by such information
and other documents as required by the approved conditions.
   (B)   (1)   A final plat shall be filed with the Commission within 12 months
after the preliminary plat has been approved by the Council. In the case of
staged development, final plats applicable to the balance of the property
covered by the preliminary plat shall be filed with the Commission in
accordance with the schedule approved by the Commission and the Council in
approval of the preliminary plat. The Commission and Council may extend the
filing deadlines. If not so filed, the plat and application of the developer
shall be deemed abandoned and preliminary plat approvals previously given
nullified; except that, final plats already approved shall not be affected by
the nullification.
      (2)   Filing is accomplished by delivering the completed application, the
original and requested copies of the final plat to the Building Official, and
paying a filing fee established by resolution of the Council. This filing fee
is in addition to any filing fee applicable to the preliminary plat
application.
      (3)   The Commission shall, within 30 days after filing, either approve
or disapprove the final plat. The final plat is deemed approved by the
Commission, unless it is disapproved within the 30-day period or within such
longer time as may be agreed upon by the developer and the Commission, per Tex.
Local Government Code § 212.009(a).
      (4)   If the final plat is approved by the Commission, whether the
approval will be actual or deemed, then within 30 days after the final plat is
approved by the Commission or is deemed approved by the inaction of the
Commission, the Council shall either approve or disapprove the final plat. The
final plat is deemed approved by the Council, unless it is disapproved within
the 30-day period or such longer time as may be agreed upon by the developer
and the Council, per Tex. Local Government Code § 212.009(b).
(2012 Code, § 77-58)
§ 158.38  MINOR PLAT REVIEW PROCESS.
   Minor plat review is only applicable to minor development, as defined at §
158.01 of this chapter, per Tex. Local Government Code § 212.0065.
   (A)   Appointment of designated employee. The Council shall appoint, by
resolution, a city employee to serve as the designated employee for the
purposes of administering this section. In the absence of such appointment or
in the event the designated employee fails or ceases to serve or continue to
serve as such, the Building Official shall serve as the designated employee.
   (B)   Minor plat review process. The final plat shall be filed with the
designated employee. No preliminary plat is required. Filing is accomplished by
delivering the original and requested copies of the final plat to the
designated employee. The designated employee shall, within 30 days after
filing, either approve the final plat or refer it to the Commission. If he or
she fails to either approve it or refer it within the period of time, it shall
be deemed referred to and filed with the Commission effective on the thirty-
first day after it was originally filed with the designated employee. If it is
referred to the Commission, whether referral be actual or deemed, the plat
shall be from that point treated as any other plat to which this subchapter did
not apply, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the Commission on the
date of referral, whether accrual or deemed.
   (C)   Endorsement by city and recording. If approved by the designated
employee, the plat shall be and constitute a final plat for all intents and
purposes, and notwithstanding anything herein in this chapter to the contrary,
shall, on being fully and properly endorsed by the designated employee, be
recorded in the real property records of the county as the final, approved plat
of the subdivision.
(2012 Code, § 77-59)
§ 158.39  VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Commission and Council may authorize a variance from these
regulations when, in their opinion, undue hardship will result from requiring
strict compliance. The approval of the variance by both the Commission and the
Council is required. Pecuniary hardship to the developer, standing alone, does
not constitute undue hardship.
   (B)   (1)   The Commission and the Council must make certain findings before
they can grant a variance. In making these findings, they shall take into
account the nature of the proposed use of the land involved, existing uses of
land in the vicinity, the number of persons who will reside or work in the
proposed subdivision and the probable effect of such variance upon traffic
conditions and upon the public health, safety, convenience and welfare in the
vicinity. No variance shall be granted unless they find that:
         (a)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land
involved such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the developer of the reasonable use of his or her land;
         (b)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
a substantial property right of the developer;
         (c)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety or welfare, or injurious to other property in the area;
and
         (d)   The granting of the variance will not have the effect of
preventing the orderly subdivision of other land in the area in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Such findings, together with the specific facts upon which such
findings are based, shall be incorporated into the official minutes of the
Commission and Council meetings at which such variance is granted.
      (3)   Variances may be granted only when in harmony with the general
purpose and intent of this chapter so that the public health, safety and
welfare are secured and substantial justice done.
      (4)   In granting variances, the Commission and Council shall require
such conditions as will, in their judgment, secure substantially the objectives
of the standards or requirements so varied, and the variance granted shall be
the minimum necessary to correct the situation.
(2012 Code, § 77-60)
§ 158.40  APPEALS.
   A developer may appeal to the Council a Commission plat disapproval decision
based on a claim of error in Commission interpretation or application of any
rule, standard, regulation or requirement set forth in this chapter, subject to
the following.
   (A)   The appellant must first request a rehearing before the Commission.
The request must be in writing, signed by the appellant and filed with the
Building Official no more than five days after the Commission’s decision is
appealed and must specify in detail each error claimed.
   (B)   The Commission shall, at its next regular meeting, immediately
following the fifth day after the appellant files a request for rehearing,
either deny or grant the request for rehearing. If it is not granted at that
meeting, the request shall be deemed denied at that meeting.
   (C)   If it is granted, the hearing shall be held at that meeting, unless it
is a replat that is at issue. In such instance, the hearing shall be held on or
before the thirtieth day after the date the request for rehearing is granted.
   (D)   The decision of the Commission shall be made at the conclusion of the
rehearing. If the Commission makes no decision at the rehearing, the request
shall be deemed denied.
   (E)   If the rehearing is denied or if the Commission upon rehearing again
disapproves the application, within five days after denial, the appellant must
file a notice of appeal with the Building Official.
   (F)   The notice must be in writing, signed by the appellant and must
specify in detail the errors claimed.
   (G)   The Building Official shall prepare and the Chairperson of the
Commission shall sign a written notice of all reasons for the Commission’s
decision to disapprove. This notice must be completed no more than ten days
after appellant’s notice of appeal is filed, unless this notice is waived by
the Council.
   (H)   The appellant and Commission may amend their notices at any time until
three days prior to the commencement of the Council hearing.
   (I)   The Council shall hold a hearing on the appeal at its first regular
meeting following the thirtieth day after the appellant’s notice of appeal is
filed.
   (J)   At the hearing, the Council shall determine only the matters described
in the notices and responses thereto filed by the appellant and the Commission,
and other matters deemed by it to be, in its discretion, appropriate.
   (K)   The Council shall make its decision at the conclusion of the hearing.
   (L)   The Council may reverse a Commission plat disapproval only if:
      (1)   The Commission was in error in its interpretation or application of
any rule, standard, regulation or requirement set forth in this chapter; and
      (2)   The plat would not have been disapproved, but for such error.
   (M)   If the Council reverses the decision of the Commission, the plat shall
be deemed approved in accordance with the Council’s decision and by the
Commission as of the date of the Council’s reversal of the Commission decision.
   (N)   The time periods within which the Commission and the Council must act
on a plat are suspended throughout the pendency of any appeal.
(2012 Code, § 77-61)
§ 158.41  REPLATTING.
   (A)   General. The provisions of Tex. Local Government Code §§ 214.014 and
214.015 are incorporated in the sections below. These requirements apply to the
final plat approval process on major and staged developments; they do not apply
to the preliminary approval process. If a minor development meets conditions
described in the definition of “replat” in §
158.01 of this chapter, the approval process shall follow requirements in
divisions (B) and (C) below.
(2012 Code, § 77-62)
   (B)   Replatting without vacating preceding plat. A replat of a subdivision
or part of a subdivision may be recorded and is controlling over the preceding
plat without vacation of that plat if the replat:
      (1)   Is signed and acknowledged by only the owners of the property being
replatted;
      (2)   Is approved, after a public hearing on the matter at which parties
in interest and citizens have an opportunity to be heard, by the municipal
authority responsible for approving plats; and
      (3)   Does not attempt to amend or remove any covenants or restrictions.
(2012 Code, § 77-63)
   (C)   Additional requirements for certain replats.
      (1)   In addition to compliance with division (A) above, a replat without
vacation of the preceding plat must conform to the requirements of this section
if:
         (a)   During the preceding five years, any of the area to be replatted
was limited by an interim or permanent zoning classification to residential use
for not more than two single-family units per lot; or
         (b)   Any lot in the preceding plat was limited by deed restrictions
to residential use for not more than two single-family units per lot.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing required under division (A) above shall be
given before the fifteenth day before the date of the hearing by:
         (a)   Publication in the city’s official newspaper or a newspaper of
general circulation in the county; and
         (b)   By written notice, with a copy of division (C) below attached,
forwarded by the City Secretary on behalf of the City Council to the owners of
lots that are in the original subdivision and that are within 200 feet of the
lots to be replatted, as indicated on the most recently approved municipal tax
roll or in the case of a subdivision within the extraterritorial jurisdiction,
the most recently approved county tax roll of the property upon which the
replat is requested. The written notice may be delivered by depositing the
notice, properly addressed with postage prepaid, in the city’s Post Office.
      (3)   If the proposed replat requires a variance and is protested in
accordance with this division (C), the proposed replat must receive, in order
to be approved, the affirmative vote of at least three- fourths of the members
present of the City Council. For a legal protest, written instruments signed by
the owners of at least 20% of the area of the lots or land immediately
adjoining the area covered by the proposed replat and extending 200 feet from
that area, but within the original subdivision, must be filed with the City
Council prior to the close of the public hearing.
      (4)   In computing the percentage of land area under division (C)(3)
above, the area of streets and alleys shall be included.
      (5)   Compliance with divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4) above is not required
for approval of a replat of part of a preceding plat if the area to be
replatted was designated or reserved for other than single- or duplex-family
residential use by notation on the last legally recorded plat or in the legally
recorded restrictions applicable to the plat.
(2012 Code, § 77-64)
IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS AND DESIGN
§ 158.55  CONFORMANCE.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, all subdivision plats shall
comply with the following laws, rules and regulations:
   (A)   All applicable statutory provisions;
   (B)   The local government building and housing codes and all other
applicable laws of the appropriate jurisdictions;
   (C)   The general plan, official map, public utilities plan and capital
improvements program of the city including all streets, drainage systems and
parks shown on the official map or general plan;
   (D)   The special requirements of these regulations and any rules of the
county, the city’s Public Works Department and/or appropriate state agencies;
   (E)   The rules of the state’s Department of Transportation, if the
subdivision or any lot contained in it abuts a state highway or connecting
street; and
   (F)   Plat approval may be withheld if a subdivision is not in conformity
with the above guides or policies of these regulations.
(2012 Code, § 77-111)
§ 158.56  CHARACTER OF THE LAND.
   Land which the Planning and Zoning Commission finds to be unsuitable for
subdivision or development due to flooding, improper drainage, adverse earth
formations or topography, utility easements or other features which will
reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and general welfare of the present
or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding areas, shall
not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are formulated by the
developer and approved by the Planning and Zoning Commission to solve the
problems created by the unsuitable land conditions.
(2012 Code, § 77-112)
§ 158.57  MONUMENTS.
   The subdivider shall place permanent reference monuments in the subdivision
as required herein and as approved by a registered land surveyor.
   (A)   Monuments shall be located on street right-of-way lines, at street
intersections, angle points of curve and block corners. They shall be spaced so
as to be within 1,200 feet of each other.
   (B)   All monuments shall be set flush with the ground and shall consist of
a five-eighths inch iron rod of usual and customary length.
(2012 Code, § 77-113)
§ 158.58  LOT IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Lot arrangement and numbering. In general, the sidelines of lots in
subdivisions shall be approximately at right angles to straight street lines or
radial to curved street lines. In general, an arrangement placing adjacent lots
at a right angle to each other shall be avoided. All lots shall be numbered
consecutively within each block. Lot numbering may be cumulative throughout the
subdivision if the numbering continues from block to block in a uniform manner
that has been approved on an overall preliminary plat.
(2012 Code, § 77-126)
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   Lots shall be a minimum of 60 feet by 100 feet.
      (2)   Corner lots shall be at least 75 feet wide. Lots abutting on
crosswalk ways shall be treated as corner lots.
      (3)   Each lot shall front upon a public street. Lots of irregular shape
will not be allowed unless they have a street frontage of at least 60 feet.
      (4)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight
street lines and radial to curved street lines.
      (5)   Where a corner lot is a key lot (where lots face the frontage
street and other lots face the side street), the corner lot shall have at least
the minimum building setback line on both streets. Where a corner lot is not a
key lot it shall have a minimum building setback line of the side street of at
least 20 feet. Lots abutting a crosswalk way shall be treated as corner lots.
      (6)   See R-1 zoning for requirements for minimum sizes of front, side
and rear yards.
      (7)   Lots abutting on crosswalk ways shall be treated as corner lots.
(2012 Code, § 77-127)
   (C)   Special case lots. Where a lot in a residential area backs up to a
railroad right-of-way, a high pressure gasoline, oil or gas line, an arterial
street, an industrial area or other land where no marginal access street or
other street is provided at the rear of such lot, additional depth shall be
required by the Commission, but in no event shall a width in excess of 50 feet
be required.
(2012 Code, § 77-128)
   (D)   Double frontage lots and access to lots.
      (1)   Double frontage and reversed frontage lots shall be avoided, except
where necessary to provide separation of residential development from traffic
arterials or to overcome specific disadvantages of topography and orientation.
      (2)   Lots shall not, in general, derive access exclusively from a major
or secondary arterial. Where driveway access from a major or secondary arterial
may be necessary for several adjoining lots, the Planning and Zoning Commission
may require that such lots be served by a combined access drive in order to
limit possible traffic hazard on such streets. Where possible the driveways
shall be designated and arranged to avoid requiring vehicles to back into
traffic on major or secondary arterials.
(2012 Code, § 77-129)
   (E)   Lot drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide drainage away
from all buildings and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with the
general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so as
to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent lots.
(2012 Code, § 77-130)
§ 158.59  STREETS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Frontage on improved roads. No subdivision shall be approved unless
the proposed street system within the subdivision connects to an existing paved
public roadway.
      (2)   Street layout. Adequate and paved streets shall be provided by the
subdivider, and the arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location
of each shall conform to the comprehensive plan of the city and shall be
considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to topographic
conditions, to public safety and convenience and in their appropriate
relationship to the proposed uses of land to be served by such streets. The
street layout shall be devised for the most advantageous development of the
entire subdivision.
      (3)   Topography and arrangement.
         (a)   Roads shall be related appropriately to the topography. Local
roads or minor streets shall be curved wherever possible to avoid conformity of
lot appearance. All streets shall be arranged so as to obtain as many as
possible of the building sites at or above the grades of the streets. Specific
standards are contained in the design standards of these regulations. Where
necessary to the neighborhood pattern, existing streets in adjoining areas
shall be continued and shall be at least as wide as such existing streets and
in alignment therewith.
         (b)   All streets shall be integrated with the existing and proposed
system of thoroughfares and dedicated right-of-way and drainage plan as
established on the official map and/or general plan.
         (c)   Minor or local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as
possible to the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
         (d)   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not
necessarily be adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, cul-de-sacs or
U-shaped streets shall be encouraged where such use will result in a more
desirable layout.
(2012 Code, § 77-146)
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   General. In order to provide for roads of suitable location, width
and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory
access to police, firefighting, sanitation and road maintenance equipment and
to coordinate roads so as to compose a convenient system and avoid undue
hardship to adjoining properties, the following design standards for roads are
hereby required. Road classification may be indicated on the general plan or
official map otherwise it shall be determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission:
Alley
   Minimum right-of-way wid30 ft.
   Minimum paving width    30 ft.
   Maximum grade           10%
Street
   Minimum right-of-way wid60 ft.
   Minimum paving width    40 ft.
   Maximum grade           8%
 
      (2)   Road surfacing and improvements. After sewer and water utilities
have been installed by the developer, the developer shall surface the roadways
to the widths prescribed in these regulations. The surfacing shall be in
compliance with city engineering specifications and standards. Types of
pavement shall be determined by the developer’s registered engineer and
approved by the Public Works Director. Adequate provision shall be made for
culverts, drains and bridges as necessary. All road pavement, shoulders,
drainage improvements and structures, turnarounds and sidewalks shall conform
to all construction standards and specifications adopted by the Planning and
Zoning Commission, the Public Works Director and the City Administrator.
      (3)   Intersections.
         (a)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an
angle of less than 75 degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should
be curved approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right
angles for at least 100 feet therefrom. Not more than two streets shall
intersect at any one point unless specifically approved by the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
         (b)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of such street. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than
125 feet shall not be permitted, except where the intersected street has
separated dual drives without median breaks at either intersection. Where
streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be continuous.
Intersection of major streets shall be at least 800 feet apart.
         (c)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. At the approach to an intersection, a leveling area shall be
provided having not greater than a 2% rate at a distance of 60 feet, measured
from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting street.
         (d)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut such ground and/or vegetation in
connection with the grading of the right-of-way to the extent deemed necessary
to provide an adequate sight distance.
(2012 Code, § 77-147)
   (C)   Road dedication and reservations.
      (1)   New perimeter streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be
laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets. Where an
existing half-street is adjacent to a new subdivision the other half of the
street shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The Planning and
Zoning Commission may authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider
improves and dedicates the entire required street right-of-way width within his
own subdivision boundaries.
      (2)   Widening and realignment of existing roads. Where a subdivision
borders an existing narrow road or when the general plan or official map
indicates plans for realignment or widening a road that would require use of
some of the land in the subdivision, the City Council may require the applicant
to improve and dedicate, at his or her expense, such areas for widening or
realignment of such roads. Such frontage roads and streets shall be improved
and dedicated by the subdivider at his or her own expense to the full width as
required by the City Council and these regulations. Land reserved for any road
purpose may not be counted in satisfying yard or area requirements of this
chapter whether the land is to be dedicated to the city in fee simple or an
easement is granted to the city.
(2012 Code, § 77-148)
§ 158.60  WATER FACILITIES; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   No plat will be approved covering any property located within the
corporate limits of the city until such time as water service has been made
available for every lot within the subdivision.
      (2)   The subdivider shall extend the public water supply facilities
including fire hydrants subject to the specification and approval of the city.
      (3)   If the subdivider provides a private water supply, it shall be
approved by the state’s Commission on Environmental Quality, Water Supply
Division, Public Drinking Water Staff. The subdivider must supply a letter with
attached Source Water Susceptibility Assessment (SWSA) Report from TCEQ to the
Planning and Zoning Commission indicating its approval of the installation
prior to plat approval by the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 77-196)
   (B)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be required for all subdivisions.
Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 1,000 feet apart and within 500
feet of any structure in a single-family development and 300 feet apart in any
apartment or commercial development. Fire hydrants shall be in accordance with
the requirements of the American Insurance Association and the National Fire
Protection Association and shall meet the approval of the city.
(2012 Code, § 77-197)
§ 158.61  SEWERS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   No plat will be approved covering any property located within the
corporate limits of the city until such time as sewer service has been made
available for every lot within the subdivision.
      (2)   The subdivider shall extend the public sanitary sewer to the
subdivision and shall install adequate sewerage facilities subject to the
specifications and approval of the Public Works Director.
(2012 Code, § 77-211)
   (B)   Design criteria for sanitary sewers. Sanitary sewer systems shall meet
the requirements of the city.
      (1)   These design criteria are not intended to cover extraordinary
situations. Deviations will be allowed and may be required. Final designs for
water and sewage service must be approved by the city’s Public Works Director.
Design criteria provided herein is informational and is not to be construed as
final design requirements.
      (2)   Sewers shall be designed for the total tributary area using the
following criteria:
Source Classification Remarks Daily sewage flow gallon Daily B.O.D. 5 lbs/
                              per person               person
Source            Remarks               Daily sewage flow Daily B.O.D. 5 lbs/
Classification                          gallon per person person
Drive-in theater  Per car space         5                 0.01
Factory           With showers          25                0.07
Factory or office No showers            20                0.06
building
Hospitals         Per bed               200               0.35
Mobile home park  3 persons/trailer     100               0.17
Motor lodge       W/toilet and bath     50                0.12
Municipality      Residential           100               0.17
Nursing homes     Per bed               90                0.20
                  Swimmers              40                0.10
Recreation parks  Campers               5                 0.01
                  Boaters               10                0.03
Restaurant        Per meal served       5                 0.02
Schools           Elementary, high      15                0.04
Subdivision       Residential           100               0.17
Trailer park,     2-1/2 persons/trailer 50                0.12
transient
 
      (3)   These design factors shall apply to watersheds of 300 acres or
less. For areas larger than 300 acres, registered engineers must submit design
calculations for approval. The state’s Health Department criteria shall govern
design preparation.
      (4)   The diameter of sewers proposed shall not exceed the diameter of
the existing or proposed outlet whichever is applicable unless otherwise
directed by the Director of Public Works.
      (5)   No public sewer shall be less than eight inches in diameter.
      (6)   All sewers shall be designed and constructed with hydraulic slopes
sufficient to give mean velocities when flowing full or half-full of not less
than two feet per second. The grades shown in the following table are based on
Manning’s Formula and an “n” factor of 0.013 and shall be minimum acceptable
slopes. Lesser “n” factors will be considered for special material where new
“n” can be demonstrated.
 
Size of Pipe in Inches I.D. Fall in Feet per 100 Feet of Sewer
8                           0.33
10                          0.25
12                          0.20
15                          0.15
18                          0.11
21                          0.09
 
      (7)   Sewers shall be laid in straight alignment where possible with
uniform grade between manholes. In those cases where horizontal curvature must
be utilized to serve a particular area, the smallest radius of curvature shall
be 100 feet and in all cases shall be in accordance within the particular
manufacturer’s recommendations.
      (8)   Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley right-of-
way unless topography dictates otherwise. When located in easements on private
property, access shall be provided to all manholes.
      (9)   A minimum horizontal distance of nine feet shall be maintained
between parallel water and sewer lines. At points where sewers cross water
mains, the sewer shall be constructed of pressure type pipe with water-tight
joints for a distance of ten feet in each direction.
(2012 Code, § 77-212)
§ 158.62  UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utility facilities, including, but not limited to, electric power
and telephone shall be located throughout the subdivision on easements centered
on rear lot lines and shall be subsurface wherever practical. Such easements
shall be at least ten feet wide. Proper coordination shall be established
between the subdivider and the applicable utility companies and the city for
the establishment of utility easements established in adjoining properties.
   (B)   Where topographical or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual
unobstructed easements at least ten feet in width shall be provided along side
lot lines with satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines. Easements
shall be indicated on the plat.
   (C)   Water and sewer utilities shall be located in the street right-of-way.
(2012 Code, § 77-226)
CHAPTER 159:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
159.01   Definitions
   
159.02   Districts established; exceptions
   
159.03   Non-conforming uses
   
159.04   Permits
   
159.05   Community unit plan
   
159.06   Certificate of occupancy
   
159.07   Boundaries of districts
   
159.08   Board of Adjustments
   
159.09   Changes and amendments
   
159.10   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
Specific Districts
   
159.25   R-1, Single-Family Residential District
   
159.26   R-2, Multiple-Family Residential District
   
159.27   R-3, Mobile Home District
   
159.28   C-1, Commercial-1 District
   
159.29   C-2, Commercial-2 District
   
159.30   M-1, Industrial District
 
   
159.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The word “building” shall include the word “structure”; the word “lot”
includes the word “plot”, and the word “shall” is mandatory and not merely
permissive or directory. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USE. A subordinate building or a portion of the main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the main building or to the
main use of the premises. An ACCESSORY USE is one which is incidental to the
main use of the premises.
   ALLEY. A public, or private thoroughfare, which affords only a secondary
means of access to property abutting thereon.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple dwelling, or in a building
in which more than one living unit is established above the same floor, or on
the same, floor as, non-residential uses, which room or suite is intended, or
designed for use as a residence by one family; and which includes culinary
accommodations.
   APARTMENT HOUSE. A building or portion whereof used or designed as a
residence for three or more families living independently of each other, and
doing their own cooking in said building, including apartments and apartment
hotels.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A building, other than a hotel, where or compensation and by
prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided
for three or more persons, but not exceeding 20 persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for support, enclosure, shelter
and protection of persons, animals, chattels or property.
   CLINIC. An office or group of offices for one or more physicians, surgeons
or dentists engaged in treating the sick or injured, but not including rooms
for the abiding of patients.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city, for which regulations governing
the use of buildings and premises, the heights of buildings, the size of yards
and the intensity of use are uniform.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed and used
exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING, FAMILY-DUPLEX. A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by two families.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by more than two families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by one family.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single
housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boardinghouse,
lodging house or hotel, as herein defined.
   FILLING STATION, SERVICE STATION. Any building or premises used for the
dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail of any automobile fuels or
oils. When the dispensing, sale or offering for sale is incidental to the
conduct of a public garage, or retail store, the premises are classified as a
public garage or retail store.
   FRONTAGE. All the property on one side of a street between two intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the street, or if
the street is dead-ended, then all the property abut on one side between an
intersecting street and the dead-end of the street.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or portion of the main use building
designed for or used for the housing of motor-driven vehicles which are the
property of and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which the
private garage is located. Not more than one of the vehicles may be a
commercial vehicle and of not more than one and one-half tons’ capacity.
   GARAGE PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, other than a private garage,
designed or used for equipping, repairing, hiring, servicing, selling or
storing motor-driven vehicles.
   GRADE.
      (1)   (a)   For buildings having walls adjoining one street only, the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
         (b)   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining
the streets.
         (c)   For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average
level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior of the
buildings.
      (2)   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from
the street line shall be considered as adjoining the street. Where no sidewalk
exists, the grade shall be established by the city’s Building Inspector.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to the
mean height level between the eaves and ridge of gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession engaged in by the occupants of
a dwelling not involving the conduct of a retail business, and not including
any occupation conducted in any building on the premises excepting the building
which is used by the occupant as his or her private residence. HOME OCCUPATION
shall include, in general, personal services such as furnished by an architect,
lawyer, physician, dentist, musician, artist and seamstress, when performed by
the person occupying the building as his or her private dwelling and not
including a partnership or the employment of more than one assistant in
performance of such services.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging or board and lodging are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person
in charge at all times. As such, it is open to the public in contradistinction
to a boardinghouse, a lodging house or an apartment house, which are herein
defined.
   LODGING HOUSE. A building or place where lodging is provided (or which is
equipped to provide lodging regularly) by prearrangement for definite periods,
for compensation, for three or more persons in contradistinction to hotels open
to transients.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by and use
permitted in this chapter, including one main building with its accessory
buildings, the open spaces and parking spaces required by the chapter, and
having its principal frontage upon a street or upon an officially approved
place.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   NON-CONFORMING. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the time
of passage of this chapter or amendment thereto, which does not conform after
the passage of this chapter or amendment thereto with the use regulations of
the district in which it is situated.
   PARKING SPACE. An area enclosed or unenclosed containing not less than 160
square feet exclusive of the driveways connection said space with a street or
alley. Said PARKING SPACE and connection driveway shall be durably surfaced and
so arranged to permit satisfactory ingress and egress of an automobile.
   STORY. The portion of a building, other than a basement, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it; or, if
there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or any complete
rebuilding of the roof or the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including, but without limiting, the general
inclusiveness of the foregoing, advertising signs, poster boards and pergolas.
   TRAILER. Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage
purposes having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses
or skirting and which is, has been or reasonably may be equipped with wheels or
other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means. The term TRAILER shall include camp car and house
car. For the purpose of this chapter, a TRAILER is a single-family dwelling and
shall conform to all regulations therefor when not located in a trailer camp,
as herein defined.
   TRAILER CAMP, TRAILER COACH PARK. A lot or tract of land where facilities
and accommodation are provided by the day, week, month or for a longer period
of time, for or without compensation, for two or more trailers when such
trailers are being used for human habitation.
   TOURIST COURT (AUTO COURTS). A group of attached, semi-detached or detached
buildings containing individual sleeping units or living units, designed for or
used temporarily by automobile tourists or transients with garage attached or
parking space conveniently located to each unit and offering to the public
daily as well as other longer-term rental rates and maintaining a register of
guests and lot for their vehicles.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided. In measuring a YARD for the purpose of determining the
width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard, or the depth of a rear yard,
the horizontal distance between the lot line and the main building shall be
used.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side lot
lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the front of the main building or any projection thereof other than the
projection of the usual steps, unenclosed balconies or open porch.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between the
side lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and the rear of the main building or any projection other than steps,
unenclosed balconies or unenclosed porches. On corner lots, the REAR YARD shall
be considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the yard shall, in all cases,
be at the opposite end of a lot from the front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the main building and the side line of the lot
and extending from the front line to the rear yard line.
(2012 Code, § 93-1)
§ 159.02  DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of regulating and restricting the heights and
size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot that may be
occupied, the size of yards and other open spaces, the density of population
and the location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence or other purposes, the city is hereby divided into districts of which
there shall be six classes in number and which shall be known as:
         (a)   “R-1” Single-Family Dwelling District;
         (b)   “R-2” Multi-Family Dwelling District;
         (c)   “R-3” Mobile Homes;
         (d)   “C-1” Commercial-1 District;
         (e)   “C-2” Commercial-2 District; and
         (f)   “M-1” Manufacturing District.
      (2)   The boundaries of the districts described above are shown on the
map on file in the City Clerk’s office and made a part of this chapter, which
map is designated as the “Zoning District Map”. Said district map and all
notations, references and other information shown thereon, are made a part of
this chapter and shall have the same force and effect as if said map and said
data thereon were fully set forth or described herein. Said map shall, on its
face, be identified and verified in the manner following: It shall bear the
title “ZONING DISTRICT MAP Clifton, Texas”; it shall bear even date with the
passing of this chapter; it shall bear the name of the Mayor; and it shall be
attested by the signature of the City Clerk. The original of said map shall be
kept in a proper place in the municipal building.
      (3)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way is lawfully vacated
by the Council of the city, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacated area and thereafter all land included in said vacated area shall
be subject to all applicable regulations of the extended districts.
      (4)   All territory hereafter annexed to the city shall be classified as
“R-1”, One- Family Dwelling District, until permanently zoned by the governing
body of the city. The city’s Planning and Zoning Commission shall, as soon as
practicable after annexation of any territory to the city, institute
proceedings on its own motion to give the newly annexed territory permanent
zoning, and the procedure to be followed shall be the same as is provided by
law for the adoption of original zoning applications, except as hereinafter
provided.
         (a)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered, and no building or land shall be used for any purpose
that is not permitted in the district in which the building or land is
situated.
         (b)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is situated.
         (c)   The minimum yards and other open spaces, including lot area per
family, required by this chapter for each and every building existing at the
time of the passage of this chapter or for any building hereafter erected shall
not be encroached upon or considered as yard or open space requirements for any
other building, nor shall any lot area be reduced to an area less than the
district requirements of this chapter.
         (d)   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall
be on a lot, as herein defined, and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on one lot, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 93-2)
   (B)   (1)   Use regulations.
         (a)   Accessory buildings. No accessory building shall be constructed
upon a lot until the construction of the main use building has been actually
commenced. No accessory building shall be used unless the main use building on
the lot is also being used.
         (b)   Railroad rights-of-way. On all existing rights-of-way or
railroad companies, regardless of the zoning district in which such rights-of-
way are located, railroad track accessories to railroad movement may be
constructed or maintained.
      (2)   Area and density regulations.
         (a)   In a district in which commercial or industrial buildings are
built with one or more stories for residential purposes above the commercial or
industrial uses, no side yards will be required for the residential portions of
the building; provided that, the part of the building intended for residential
use is not more than two rooms deep from front to rear.
         (b)   No yard or other open space provided about any building for the
purpose of complying with the provisions of these regulations shall again be
used as a yard or an open space for another building. Every part of a required
yard shall be open to the sky and unobstructed by buildings, except for
accessory buildings in the rear yard and except for the ordinary projection of
skylights, sills, belt courses, cornices and other ornamental features which
may project into yards a distance of not more than two feet.
         (c)   Terraces, uncovered porches, platforms and ornamental features
which do not extend more than three feet above the floor level of the ground
(first) story may project into a required side yard; provided, these
projections be a distance of at least two feet from the adjacent side lot line.
      (3)   Front yards; vision clearance. On any corner lot on which a front
or side yard is required, no wall, fence, sign or other structure shall be
permitted more than three feet above curb level within 15 feet of the
intersection of the property lines.
      (4)   Side yards.
         (a)   A side yard of not less than 25 feet on the side of the lot
adjoining on an R-1 or R-2 District shall be provided for all schools,
libraries, churches, community houses, clubs and other public or semi-public
buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered.
         (b)   Where a lot in the C-1 or C-2 or I Districts is not used for
residential purposes and abuts upon R-1 or R-2 Districts, a side yard shall be
provided of not less than five feet.
      (5)   Rear yard.
         (a)   In the R-1 or R-2 Districts, accessory buildings shall not
occupy more than 30% of the required minimum rear yard area. Accessory
buildings shall be a minimum of 12 feet from the main use building. In the R-
1 or R-2 Districts, no necessary buildings shall be more than one story in
height.
      (b)   In computing the depth of a rear yard where such yard opens into an
alley, one-half of the width of such alley may be assumed to be a portion of
the required yard.
(2012 Code, § 93-8)
§ 159.03  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Non-conforming use of land. The non-conforming use of land where no
building is involved existing at the time of the passage of this chapter may be
continued for a period of two years therefrom; provided that, no such non-
conforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or extended is then on the
same or adjoining property; and that, if such non- conforming use of land or
any portion thereof is discontinued or changed, any future use of such land
shall be in conformity with regulations of the district in which it lies.
   (B)   Non-conforming use of buildings.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the time this chapter
becomes effective may be continued, and the use of a non-conforming building
may be changed to another use of the same or more restricted classification, it
shall not thereafter be changed back to a use of a less restricted
classifications. A non-conforming building which is or may hereafter become
vacant and which remain unoccupied or its non-conforming use discarded for a
continuous period of one year shall not thereafter be occupied, except by a use
which conforms to regulations of the district in which it is located. A non-
conforming building may be maintained or kept in good repair, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
      (2)   No existing non-conforming building may be enlarged, extended,
reconstructed or altered unless its use is changed to a use permitted in the
district in which such building is located, except in the event such
enlargement, extension, reconstruction or alteration is required by court
decision, law or ordinance.
      (3)   A non-conforming building which is damaged by fire, explosion,
flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity or act of God or the public enemy to
the extent of 50% or more of its reasonable value may not be restored, except
in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
(2012 Code, § 93-6)
§ 159.04  PERMITS.
   No permit for the erection, alteration or enlargement of any building shall
be issued by the Building Inspector unless there first be filed in his or her
office by the applicant therefor, a plat, drawn to scale and in such form as
may be prescribed by the said Building Inspector, correctly showing the
location and actual dimensions of the lot of the building to be erected,
altered or enlarged, together with a true statement in writing, signed by the
applicant, showing use for which such building is arranged, intended or
designed, and furnishing such other information as the Building Inspector pay
require in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, and any failure
to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be good cause for the
revocation of any such building permit by applications and plats shall be kept
in the office of the Building Inspector.
(2012 Code, § 93-9)
§ 159.05  COMMUNITY UNIT PLAN.
   (A)   The owner or owners of any tract of land in the city, compromised of
an area of not less than ten acres, may submit to the city’s Building Inspector
a plan for the use and development of all of the tract of land for residential
purposes. The development plan shall be referred to the city’s Planning
Commission for study, public hearing and report. The Commission’s
recommendations and report, together with the plans, shall be submitted to the
City Council within 30 days for consideration and action.
   (B)   The recommendation and report by the Planning Commission shall contain
specific evidence and facts showing whether or not the proposed project meets
the following conditions:
      (1)   The property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not be
adversely affected;
      (2)   The plan is consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter
to promote public health, safety, morals and general welfare; and
      (3)   The buildings will be used only for purposes provided for in the R-
1 and R-1 and R-2 Districts.
   (C)   The average lot area per family contained in the site, exclusive of
the area occupied by streets, will be not less than the lot area per family
required in the district in which the development is located.
   (D)   If the City Council approves the plan, building permits and
certificates of occupancy may be issued even though the use of the land and the
location of the buildings to be erected in the area and the yards and open
spaces contemplated by the plan do not conform in all respects to the district
regulation of the district in which it is located.
(2012 Code, § 93-10)
§ 159.06  CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No vacant land shall be occupied or used, except for agricultural uses
until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued by the Building
Inspector.
   (B)   No premises shall be used and no buildings hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be used, occupied or changed in use until a
certificate of occupancy and compliance shall have been issued by the building
laws and the provisions of these regulations.
   (C)   (1)   Certificates of occupancy and compliance shall be applied for
coincident with the applications for a building permit and shall be issued
within ten days after the erection of such buildings shall have been completed
in conformity with the provisions of these regulations.
      (2)   A record of all certificates shall be kept on file in the office of
the Building Inspector.
   (D)   No permit for excavation for any building shall be issued before
application has been made for certificate of occupancy and compliance.
   (E)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required of all non-conforming
use. Application for a certificate of occupancy for non-conforming uses shall
be filed within 12 months from the effective date of this chapter with the
Building Inspector.
(2012 Code, § 93-11)
§ 159.07  BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the map accompanying and made a part of this chapter, the
following rules apply.
   (A)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys unless otherwise
shown, and where the districts designated on the map accompanying and made a
part of this chapter are bounded approximately by street or alley lines, the
street or alley shall be construes to be the boundary of the district.
   (B)   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated, where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines, and where the
districts designated on the map accompanying and made a part of this chapter
are bounded approximately by lot lines, the lot lines shall be construed to be
the boundary of the districts unless the boundaries are otherwise indicated on
the map.
   (C)   In subdivided property, the district boundary lines on the map
accompanying and made a part of this chapter shall be determined by use of the
scale appearing on the map.
(2012 Code, § 93-12)
§ 159.08  BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustments shall consist of five members who are
property owners in the city, each to be appointed for a term of two years and
removable for cause by the City Council upon written charges and after public
hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose
term becomes vacant.
   (B)   (1)   The Board shall adopt rules in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
      (2)   Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of the Chairperson
and at such other times as the Board may determine. Such Chairperson or, in his
or her absence, the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
      (3)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official action
all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the Board and shall be
a public record.
      (4)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board shall be necessary
to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of any
administrative official or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under any such ordinance or to effect any
variation in such ordinance.
   (C)   Appeals to Board of Adjustment may be taken by an officer, department
head or bureau of the city by anyone affected by any decision of the Building
Inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within a reasonable time, as provided by
the rules of the Board of Adjustments a notice of appeal specifying the grounds
thereof and by paying a filing fee of $3 to the Tax Collector of the city at
the time the notice is filed, which shall be credited to the General Fund of
the city. The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the Board all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the
Board of Adjustments after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with him
or her that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his
or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. In such cases,
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Board of Adjustments or by a court of record on application
or notice to the officer from whom the application is appealed and on the cause
shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal, giving public notice thereof, as well as due notice to the parties
in interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing,
any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the following powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   When a property owner can show that a strict application of the
terms of this chapter relating to the use, construction or alteration of
buildings or structures or the use of land will impose upon him or her
practical difficulties or particular hardship, the Board may consider and allow
variations of the strict application of the variations are in harmony with the
general purpose and intent of this chapter, and the Board is satisfied under
the evidence heard by it that a granting of the variation will not merely serve
as a convenience to the applicant, but will alleviate some demonstrable
hardship or difficulty so great as to warrant a variation from the
comprehensive plan by this chapter created; and
      (3)   The Board may authorize a variance where by reason of exceptional
narrowness, shallowness or shape of a specific piece of property of record at
the time of the adoption of this chapter or by reason of exceptional
topographical conditions or other extraordinary or exceptional situation or
condition of a specific piece of property, the strict application of a
provision of this chapter would result in peculiar and exceptional practical
difficulties and particular hardship upon the owner of the property and amount
to a practical confiscation of the property as distinguished from a mere
inconvenience to the owner; provided, the variation can be granted without
substantial detriment to the public good and without substantially impairing
the general purpose and intent of the Comprehensive Plan as established by the
regulations and provisions contained in this chapter.
   (F)   Where, in its judgment, the public convenience and welfare will not be
substantially or permanently injured, the Board of Adjustment may in a specific
case, after public notice and hearing and subject to appropriate conditions and
safeguards, authorize special exceptions to the regulations herein established
as follows:
      (1)   To permit a transitional use between a business or industrial
district and a dwelling district where the side of a lot in a one-family
district or a two-family district abuts upon a lot zoned for a business or
industrial purpose as follows.
         (a)   On a lot in a single-family dwelling district which sides upon a
lot zoned for business or industrial purposes, the permit the extension of a
building or use into a more restricted district immediately adjacent thereto,
but not more than 50 feet beyond the boundary line of the district in which
such building or use is authorized.
         (b)   Grant in undeveloped sections of the city temporary and
conditional permits for not more than two years. The granting or existence of
such temporary or conditional permit shall not be reason or cause for extension
of such permit.
      (2)   Permit such modification of yard, open space, lot area or lot width
regulations as may be necessary to secure an appropriate improvement of a
parcel of land if such parcel is separately owned at the time of the original
passage of this chapter or subsequent annexation of the city and is of such
restricted area that it cannot be appropriately improved without such
modification;
      (3)   To determine in cases of uncertainty the classification of any use
not specifically named in this chapter;
      (4)   To grant a permit for the extension of a use, height or area
regulation into an adjoining district where the boundary line of the district
divided a lot in a single ownership at the time of the adoption of this
chapter;
      (5)   To permit as an accessory use of a parking area for passenger
automobiles on a lot or lots in a single-family, duplex or apartment house
district adjoining or across a street of not more than 50 feet in width from a
R-1 or R-2 District, subject however, to the following provisions.
         (a)   The area shall be properly enclosed with a hedge, screen, fence,
wall or other suitable enclosure having a height of not less than three feet,
nor more than six feet. Such fence or enclosure shall conform to the front yard
regulations of the district in which it is located.
         (b)   The area shall be paved.
         (c)   No parking of vehicles shall be permitted within six feet of any
adjoining lot on which is located a single-family residence, duplex or multiple
dwelling.
         (d)   One sign, not exceeding two and one-half square feet in area,
may be erected identifying the lot.
         (e)   No charges may be made for parking area shall be so arranged as
to direct the light away from any adjoining premises used for residential
purposes.
      (6)   Permit the reconstruction of a building occupied by a non-
conforming use or permit the extension of a non-conforming use of a building
upon the lot occupied by such use or building at the time of the passage of
this chapter.
   (G)   (1)   Any appeal or permit granted by the Board of Adjustments shall
not be valid if construction authorized by said permit is not begun within a
period of 60 days.
      (2)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, such Board may, in
conformity with the provisions of this act, reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or determination
as ought to be made and, to that end, shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken.
      (3)   In considering all appeals and all proposed variations to this
chapter, the Board shall, before making any finding in a specific ease, first
determine that the proposed variation shall not constitute any change in the
district map and will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to
adjacent property or materially increase the congestion in public streets or
increase the public danger of fire and safety or materially diminish or impair
established property values with in the surrounding area or in any respect
impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals and welfare to the city.
      (4)   Every variation granted or denied by the Board shall be accompanied
by a written finding of fact based on sworn testimony and evidence specifying
the reason for granting or denying the variation.
(2012 Code, § 93-13)
§ 159.09  CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may from time to time amend, supplement or change by
ordinance the boundaries of the districts or the regulations herein
established.
   (B)   Before taking any action on any proposed amendment, supplement or
change, the City Council shall submit the same to the city’s Planning
Commission for its recommendation and report.
   (C)   A public hearing shall be held by the City Council before adopting any
proposed supplement, amendment or change. Notice of such hearing shall be given
by publication three times in the official publication of the city, stating the
time and place of such hearing which time shall not be earlier than 15 days
from the first day of such publication.
   (D)   Unless such proposed amendment, supplement or change has been approved
by the city’s Planning Commission or if a protest against such amendment,
supplement or change has been filed with the Building Inspector duly signed and
acknowledged by the owners of 20% or more either of the area of the lots
included in such proposed change or those immediately adjacent in the rear
thereof extending 200 feet therefrom of those directly opposite thereto
extending 200 feet from the street frontage of such opposite lots, such
amendment, supplement or change shall not become effective, except by a three-
fourths vote of the City Council.
(2012 Code, § 93-14)
§ 159.10  INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   (A)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
safety, health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or
annual any ordinance, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or
issued and not in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter or which
shall be adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of building or
premises and likewise, not in conflict with this chapter, nor is it intended by
this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or
other agreements between parties; except that, if this chapter imposes great
restriction, this chapter shall control.
(2012 Code, § 93-16)
SPECIFIC DISTRICTS
§ 159.25  R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the R-1, One-Family Residential
District.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   One-family dwellings;
      (2)   Churches or other places of worship;
      (3)   Colleges, universities or other institutions of higher learning;
      (4)   Country clubs or golf courses, but not including miniature golf
courses, driving ranges or similar forms of commercial amusement;
      (5)   Farms, nurseries or truck gardens, limited to the propagation and
cultivation of plants; provided, no retail or wholesale business is conducted
on the premises; and, provided further that, no poultry or livestock other than
normal household pets shall be housed within 100 feet of any property line;
      (6)   Parks, playgrounds, community buildings and other public
recreational facilities, owned and/or operated by the municipality or other
public agency;
      (7)   Public buildings, including libraries, museums, police and fire
stations;
      (8)   Real estate sales offices during the development of residential
subdivisions, but not to exceed two years;
      (9)   Display residential houses with sales offices; provided that, if
said display houses are not moved within a period of one year, specific
permission must be obtained from the City Council for said display houses
remain on their location;
      (10)   Schools, public elementary or high;
      (11)   Schools, private, with curriculum equivalent to that of a public
elementary or high school;
      (12)   Temporary buildings or any storage container for uses incidental
to construction work on the premises, which building shall be removed upon the
completion or abandonment of construction work;
      (13)   Water supply reservoirs, pumping plants and towers; and
      (14)   Accessory buildings and uses, customarily incident to the above
uses and located on the same lot therewith, not involving the conduct of a
retail business.
   (B)   Area regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard along the front line of the
lot. The minimum depth of such front yard shall be a minimum of 30 feet.
      (2)   Side yard. The area on each side of a building shall not be less
than six feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. The depth of the rear yard shall be at least 30% of the
depth of the lot, but such depth need not be more than 40 feet.
   (C)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories
or 35 feet in height except as provided in §
159.02(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   Intensity of use. Every lot or tract of land having an area of not
less than 6,000 square feet and an average width of not less than 50 feet;
except that, if a lot or tract should have less area or width than herein
required and its boundary lines along their entire length should touch lands
under the ownership on the effective date of this chapter and shall not have
changed since said date, such parcel of land may be used for a single-family
dwelling.
   (E)   Signs.
      (1)   One unlighted sign, which shall not exceed one square foot in area
indicating the name of the occupant or occupation of a customary home
occupation; provided, the sign is attached flat-wise to the building;
      (2)   One sign which shall not exceed 18 square feet, for church or
school; and
      (3)   One sign, which shall not exceed four square feet in area for
temporary unlighted sign pertaining to the lease, hire or sale of building or
premises; providing that, the sign is immediately removed upon the lease, hire
or sale of such building or premises.
   (F)   Mobile homes.
      (1)   No person shall park or occupy any mobile home outside an approved
mobile home park; except the parking of only one mobile home behind the
building setback lines of a plotted lot is permitted; providing, no living
quarters shall be maintained in such mobile home while such mobile home is so
parked or stored.
      (2)   A mobile home may be occupied for business or residential use
outside a licensed mobile home park when its wheels are removed and when
mounted upon a permanent type foundation; tied-down against storm; skirted with
fire-resistant skirting with the necessary vents.
      (3)   Skirting porches, awnings and other additions, when installed,
shall be maintained in good repair.
      (4)   Mobile homes shall conform to all applicable requirements of the
Building, Electrical and Plumbing Codes and all other applicable codes and
ordinances of the city.
      (5)   Mobile homes used as field offices during construction or mobile
home displayed for sale or mobile homes sales lots and mobile home
manufacturing plants are permitted.
(2012 Code, § 93-3)
§ 159.26  R-2, MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the R-2, Multi-Family Residential
District.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building or premises shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in District R-1; and
      (2)   Multi-family dwellings.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories
or 35 feet in height.
   (C)   Intensity of use. Except as hereinafter provided, all dwellings
hereafter erected, enlarged relocated or reconstructed shall be located on lots
containing the following areas:
      (1)   A lot on which there is erected an apartment house or multiple-
family dwelling shall contain an area of not less than 1,800 square feet per
dwelling unit; and
      (2)   Where a lot or tract has less area than herein required and its
boundary line along their entire length touched lands under other ownership on
the effective date of this chapter and have not been changed, such parcel of
land may be used for a single-family dwelling.
   (D)   Parking regulations.
      (1)   Whenever a structure is erected converted or structurally altered
for a multi-family dwelling, one parking space shall be provided and maintained
on the lot for each dwelling unit in the building.
      (2)   Such parking space shall be on the lot and so arranged as to permit
satisfactory ingress and egress of an automobile and such parking area shall be
in addition to driveways.
   (E)   Height and area. Height and area regulation shall be the same as found
in R-1 area regulation. Additional use, height and area regulation and
exceptions are found in §
159.02(B) of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 93-4)
§ 159.27  R-3, MOBILE HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permits. No permit shall be issued for the consideration of occupancy
of a permanent residential structure in any mobile home park, with the
following exceptions:
      (1)   One existing residential structure may be retained or one new
residential structure may be constructed for the occupancy of the owner or
operator of the park; and
      (2)   An existing residence may be converted to a clubhouse, community
center or service building for the use by the residents of the mobile home
park.
   (B)   Permit required. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
alter, move in or extend any mobile home park within the limits of the city
unless he or she holds a valid permit issued by the Building Official in the
name of such person for the specific construction, alteration or extension
proposed.
   (C)   Application requirements.
      (1)   All applications for permits shall be made to the Building Official
and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   Location and legal description of the mobile home park; and
         (c)   Other information as specified by the Building Official.
      (2)   To this application shall be attached two copies of a site plan, at
a minimum scale of one inch equals 200 feet for sites of 30 acres or more, and
at a minimum scale of one inch equals 100 feet for sites under 30 acres. The
site plan shall include all data required under division (I) below.
   (D)   Permit fee. All applications to the city shall be accompanied by a fee
of $25.
   (E)   Issuance of permit. When upon review of the application, the Building
Official is satisfied that the proposed plan meets the requirements of this
chapter, a permit shall be issued.
   (F)   Denial of permit; hearing. Any person, whose application for a permit
under this chapter has been denied, may request a hearing on the matter under
the procedure provided hereby.
   (G)   Inspection.
      (1)   Inspection required. The Building Official, the City Health
Officer, the Fire Chief, the Police Chief and the Tax Assessor/Collector are
hereby authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to
determine compliance with this chapter.
      (2)   Entry of premises. The Building Official, the City Health Officer,
the Fire Chief, the Police Chief and the Tax Assessor/Collector shall have the
power to enter at reasonable times upon any private property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating conditions relating to the enforcement of this
chapter.
      (3)   Inspection of register. The Building Official, the City Health
Officer, the Fire Chief, the Police Chief and the Tax Assessor/Collector shall
have the power and authority in discharging their official duties to inspect
the register containing a record of all residents of the mobile home park.
      (4)   Duty of occupants. It shall be the duty of every occupant of a
mobile home park to give the owner, his or her agent or authorized employee
access to any part of such park and mobile home at reasonable times for the
purpose of compliance with this chapter.
   (H)   Notices, hearing and orders.
      (1)   Notice of violations; requirements of notice. Whenever it is
determined that there are grounds to believe that there has been a violation to
the owner or agent, as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall: be in writing;
include a statement of the reasons for its issuance; allow a reasonable time
for the performance of the act it requires; be served upon the owner or his or
her agent; provided that, such notice or order shall be deemed to have been
property served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent
certified mail with return receipt requested to his or her last known address,
or when he or she has been served with such notice by any method authorized or
required by the laws of the state; and contain an outline of remedial action,
which, if taken, will effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Appeal from denial of permit by the Building Official. Any person
effected by the refusal of the Building Official to issue a permit under the
provisions of this chapter as set out herein shall be granted a hearing on the
matter before the City Council; provided that, such person shall file within
ten days after the day the permit was refused, in the office of the Building
Official, a written petition requesting such hearing and setting for the brief
statement of the grounds thereof. Upon receipt of such petition, the Building
Official shall forward it to the City Secretary who shall request the City
Council to set a time and place for such hearing and shall give the petitioner
written notice thereof. At such hearing, the petitioner shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and to show why such refusal should be modified or
withdrawn.
      (3)   Appeal from notice issued by the Building Official. Any person
affected by any notice which has been issued in connection with the enforcement
of any provision of this chapter applicable to such park, by the Building
Official, may request and shall be granted a hearing on the matter before the
City Council; provided that, such person shall file within ten days after the
day the notice was served, in the office of the Building Official a written
petition requesting such hearing and setting forth a brief statement of the
grounds therefor. The filing for the request for a hearing shall operate as a
stay of the notice and of the suspension, except in the case of an order issued
hereunder. Upon receipt of such petition, the Building Official shall forward
such petition to the City Council to set a time and place for such hearing and
shall give the petitioner written notice thereof. At such hearing, the
petitioner shall be given an opportunity to be heard and to show why such
notice should be modified or withdrawn.
      (4)   Hearing order. After such hearing, the Building Official shall
issue an order in writing sustaining, modifying or withdrawing the refusal,
which order shall be served as provided in division (H)(1) above. Upon failure
to comply with an order by the Building Official sustaining or modifying a
decision thereof, the occupancy permit of the park affected by the order shall
be revoked.
      (5)   Order without notice. Whenever the Building Official finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health
or safety, he or she may without notice or hearing issue an order reciting the
existence of such an emergency and requiring that action be taken as he or she
may seem necessary to meet the emergency. Not with standing any other
provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any
person to whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately,
but upon written petition to the Building Official shall be afforded a hearing
as soon as possible. The provisions hereof shall be applicable to such hearing
and the order issued thereafter.
   (I)   Site requirements. Any mobile home park constructed or any mobile home
moved into a park, after the adoption of this chapter, and for any extension or
addition to an existing mobile home park in the city, shall be done in
compliance with the following site requirements.
      (1)   Space requirements. No mobile home space shall contain less than
3,500 square feet and be less than 35 feet wide and no mobile home shall occupy
more than 40% of the total square feet of any lot.
      (2)   Off-street parking. Off street parking shall be provided on each
mobile home space in the ratio of two parking spaces for each mobile home
space. Each parking space shall be hard-surfaced with all-weather material and
located to eliminate interference with access to parking areas provided for
other mobile homes and for the public parking in the park.
      (3)   Open space requirements.
         (a)   The minimum front yard setback shall be eight feet from the
nearest corner of the mobile home to the front line of the mobile home space.
         (b)   No mobile home shall be closer than eight feet to any property
line or closer than eight feet to the property line adjoining a public street.
         (c)   For other structures on each space, the minimum front yard
setback shall be at least eight feet.
         (d)   The minimum distance between mobile homes at any point shall be
16 feet.
      (4)   Soil and ground cover. Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of
every mobile home park shall be paved, covered with stone screening or other
solid material, or protected with vegetative growth that is capable of
preventing soil erosion and of eliminating dust.
      (5)   Drainage. The ground surfaces in all parts of a park shall be
graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner.
      (6)   Design and location of storage facilities. Unless provided in
current mobile home models, storage facilities with a minimum capacity of 200
cubic feet per mobile home space, within 100 feet of each space. Where
provided, storage facilities shall be designed in a manner that will enhance
the appearance of the park and shall be faced with masonry, porcelain steel,
baked enamel steel or other material equal in fire resistance, durability and
appearance. Storage outside the perimeter walls of the mobile home shall be
permitted only if in such facilities. All standards for building must comply
with other city building codes.
      (7)   Mobile home stands. The area of the mobile home stand or place
shall provide adequate support and drainage for placement of the mobile home.
The mobile home shall be tied down according to H.U.D. specifications.
      (8)   Fire safety standards.
         (a)   Storage and handling of liquefied petroleum gases. In parks in
which liquefied petroleum gases are stored and dispensed, their handling and
storage shall comply with requirements of the city’s Plumbing Code and the
city’s Fire Code.
         (b)   Storage and handling of flammable liquids. In parks in which
gasoline, fuel oil or other flammable liquids and stored and/or dispensed,
their handling and storage shall comply with the city’s Fire Code.
         (c)   Access to mobile homes for fire fighting. Approaches to all
mobile homes shall be kept clear for firefighting.
         (d)   Fire hydrant spacing. Fire hydrant spacing must be such that no
mobile home space is located more than 500 feet from a fire hydrant.
      (9)   Water distribution systems.
         (a)   The water supply system of the mobile home park shall be
connected by pipes to all mobile homes, buildings and other facilities
requiring water.
         (b)   All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with state and city regulations and
requirements.
         (c)   Individual water riser pipes and connections shall be in
accordance with requirements of the city’s Plumbing Code.
      (10)   Sewage disposal.
         (a)   General requirements. An adequate and safe sewage system shall
be provided in all mobile home parks for conveying and disposal of all sewer.
The sewage system for a mobile home park shall be constructed in accordance
with the city’s Plumbing Code. All proposed sewage disposal facilities shall be
approved by the Sewer Department Superintendent prior to construction.
Effluents from sewage treatment facilities shall not be discharged into any
water of the state, except with prior approval of the city’s Health Officer and
the appropriate regulatory agency of the state.
         (b)   Sewer lines. All sewer lines shall be constructed and of
materials in accordance with the city’s Plumbing Code.
            1.   Each mobile home stand shall be provided with at least a four-
inch diameter sewer riser pipe. The sewer riser pipe shall be so located on
each stand that the sewer connection to the mobile home drain outlet will
approximate a vertical position.
            2.   The sewer connection to the mobile home from the sewer riser
pipe and any other sewer connections shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the city’s Plumbing Code.
            3.   All materials used for the sewer connections shall be in
accordance with the city’s Plumbing Code.
            4.   Provision shall be made for plumbing the sewer riser pipe when
no mobile home occupies the space. Surface drainage shall be diverted away from
the riser.
      (11)   Electrical and telephone distribution systems.
         (a)   General. All electrical wiring in the mobile home park shall be
installed in accordance with the city’s approved National Electric Code.
Telephone lines in the mobile home park shall be installed underground or
overhead, to be determined by the telephone company.
         (b)   General requirements. Every park shall contain an electrical
wiring system consisting of wiring fixtures, equipment and appurtenances, which
shall be installed in accordance with applicable codes and regulations for such
systems.
         (c)   Power distribution lines, individual electrical connections and
grounding. All power distribution lines individual electrical connections and
grounding of the mobile homes and equipment shall comply with the city’s
approved National Electric Code.
      (12)   Service building and community service facilities.
         (a)   Barbecue pits, fireplaces. Cooking shelters, barbecue pits,
fireplaces and wood-burning stoves shall be so located, constructed, maintained
and used as to minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance both on the property on
which used and on neighboring property. No open fire shall be permitted.
         (b)   Refuse and garbage handling. Centrally located refuse containers
having a capacity of three cubic yards or larger may be provided if serviced by
a city-approved carrier. If provided, such containers shall be so designed as
to prevent spillage, container deterioration and to facilitate cleaning around
them. The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park
shall be conducted as provided by the city’s Sanitation Ordinance.
         (c)   Insect and rodent control. Grounds, buildings and structures
shall be maintained free of insects and rodent harborage and infestation.
Extermination methods and other measures to control insects and rodents shall
conform to the requirements of the city’s Health Director. Parks shall be
maintained free of accumulation of debris, which may provide rodent harborage
of breeding places for flies, mosquitoes and other pests. The growth of brush,
weeds and grass shall be controlled to prevent harborage of noxious insects or
other pests. Parks shall be so maintained as to prevent the growth of noxious
weeds detrimental to health. Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy
undergrowth of any description. If necessary, the city shall cause the area to
be cleaned and assess the cost of any charges performed by the city or hired by
the city and bill owner on monthly utility statement.
         (d)   Fuel supply and storage. From and after the effective date of
this chapter, the following shall apply: natural gas piping systems shall be
installed underground and maintained in accordance with applicable codes and
regulations governing such systems. Each mobile home space provided with piped
gas shall have a cap on the outlet when not in use to prevent accidentally
discharge of gas and shall be in accordance with the city’s Plumbing Code.
         (e)   Street requirements. Street right-of-way width shall be minimum
of 50 feet. All services excavations shall be completed before a street is
constructed. Streets must be paved. Curb and gutter is allowed, but not
required. Minimum paved surface width must be 30 feet. Base material for
streets shall be #1 rock six-inch compacted type B, grade 1, item #244, State
Highway Department specifications, with one and one-fourth-inch hot mix for
surface to be applied within nine months after rock base is applied. Concrete
paving is allowed. Shoulders shall be composed of four-inch thick compactable
#1 rock, three feet wide on each side of paving. Street signs shall be erected
according to the specifications of the City Council. All street construction
and street signs and installation thereof shall be at the developer’s expense
without reimbursement.
         (f)   Water and sewer construction requirements.
            1.   Exterior lines. Exterior water line supply mains and sewage
collection lines in excess of 500 feet necessary to supply water and sewer
service to a development shall be built at the developer’s expense to the
city’s specifications without reimbursement. If approved by the City Council,
the city will install a maximum of 500 feet of six-inch exterior water main and
500 feet of six-inch exterior sewer main to supply water and sewer service to a
development. If required, the developer shall install a sewer lift station
built to the city’s specifications.
            2.   Interior lines. All interior water and sewer lines shall be
built to the city specifications at the developer’s expense including water
mains, master meters, laterals, valves fittings fire hydrants, sewer mains,
manholes, wryer and cleanouts.
         (g)   Miscellaneous requirements.
            1.   Responsibilities of the park management.
               a.   All responsibilities set out elsewhere in this chapter.
               b.   The owner or his or her agent shall operate the park in
compliance with this and other applicable ordinances and shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair
and in a clean and sanitary condition.
               c.   The owner or agent shall notify park occupants of all
applicable provisions of this chapter and inform them of their duties and
responsibilities under this chapter.
               d.   The owner or agent shall maintain a register of park
occupancy which shall contain the following information:
                  i.   Name, ID or driver’s license number and address of park
residents;
                  ii.   Mobile home registration date, including make, length,
width, year of manufacture and identification number;
                  iii.   Location of each mobile home within the park by space
or lot number and street address;
                  iv.   Dates of arrival and departure;
                  v.   A register shall be initiated on January 1 of each year,
and the old register shall be retired, but shall be retained on the premises
for at least three years following the retirement. Resisters shall be available
for inspection at all reasonable times that an official of the city whose
duties may necessitate according to the information contained therein; and
                  vi.   The owner or agent shall furnish to the City Secretary
within ten days after January 1 of each year, a listing of all mobile home
residents in the park on January 1. The list shall contain the owner’s name and
address, the make, length, width, year manufacture and identification number of
the mobile home and the address or location description of said mobile home
within the park. Within ten days after July 1 of each year, the owner or agent
shall furnish to the City Secretary the same data required in division (I)(12)
(g)1.d.v. above on all residents who have moved into the park after January 1,
and information on mobile homes which have moved out of the park after January
1 including the foregoing data, plus the date on which each mobile home left
the park, and the destination of the mobile home if this destination can be
obtained.
            2.   Responsibilities of park occupants.
               a.   All responsibilities set out elsewhere in this chapter;
               b.   The park occupant shall comply with all requirements of
this chapter and shall maintain his or her mobile home space, its facilities
and equipment in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition;
               c.   The park occupant shall be responsible for proper placement
of his or her mobile home in its mobile home stand and proper installation of
all utility connections in accordance with the instructions of the park
management; and
               d.   Fire-resistant skirting with the necessary vent screens
and/or openings and tie downs shall be required on all mobile homes in mobile
home parks and shall be installed within 30 days after emplacement of the
mobile home. Skirting, porches, awnings and the other additions, when installed
shall be maintained in good repair. This use of space immediately underneath a
mobile home for storage shall be permitted under the following conditions: the
storage area shall have a base of impervious material. Stored items shall not
interfere with the underneath inspection of the mobile home. For occupants of
pre-existing mobile home parks, said occupants shall within 60 days of the said
ordinance meet all requirements for occupants set forth in this chapter.
   (J)   Mobile home restrictions.
      (1)   Existing mobile homes outside mobile home parks.
         (a)   All existing mobile homes located outside mobile home parks
shall meet the following requirements within 30 days after the effective date
of this chapter:
            1.   Tie down anchoring;
            2.   Hook up to city utilities in accordance with city ordinances
and codes and electrical connections in accordance with the National Electric
Code; and
            3.   Underpinning with proper venting.
         (b)   Mobile homes situated on sites which are outside of mobile home
park as of 1-1-2002, May remain in place for as long as they otherwise conform
with this chapter. Upon their removal from the location, however, the sites
revert to their permanent zoning classification and may no longer be used for
mobile homes or other non-conforming uses.
      (2)   “New” mobile homes outside licensed mobile home parks. No mobile
home shall be placed on any lot, tract or parcel of land which is not located
inside a mobile home park.
      (3)   Work trailer sites. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply
to existing work trailer sites.
(2012 Code, § 93-5)
§ 159.28  C-1, COMMERCIAL-1 DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the C-1 Commercial-1 District.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building or premises in this district shall be used
only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in District R-1 and R-2. For R-1 or R-2 uses
within a C-1 District, the regulations of the respective R-1 or R-2 zones
apply;
      (2)   Bakeries, retail sales only;
      (3)   Dancing or music academies;
      (4)   Personal service uses including barber shop, beauty parlors,
photographic or artist studios, dressmaking, tailoring, shoe repairing, repair
of bicycles, catering, restaurants and other personal service uses of similar
character;
      (5)   Restaurants and ice cream parlors;
      (6)   Retail stores and other local business uses supplying the everyday
shopping needs of immediate neighborhood and subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   It be conducted wholly within an enclosed building;
         (b)   Required yards be not used for display, sale or storage of
merchandise, or for the storage of vehicles, equipment, containers, trailers or
waste material;
         (c)   All merchandise be first-hand and be sold at retail on the
premises; and
         (d)   Such use be not objectionable because of odor, excessive light,
smoke, dust, noise, vibration or similar nuisance.
      (7)   Theater; and
      (8)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above uses; provided that, such be not objectionable because of odor, excessive
light, smoke, dust, noise, vibration or similar nuisance and that such may not
be located in a front yard.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building shall exceed two and one-half stories.
   (C)   Yard regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. There shall be a front yard along front line of lot.
The minimum depth of such front yard shall be 20 feet.
      (2)   Side yard. For uses permitted in the R-2 District, the side yard
regulations for that district shall apply. For additional uses permitted in the
R-1 District, no side yards are required; except that, on a corner lot the side
yard on a street shall be 20 feet. Where a lot is used for any of the
commercial purposes permitted in this district and abutting on the side of a
lot in an R-1 or R-2 District, there shall be a side yard of not less than five
feet.
      (3)   Rear yard. For uses permitted in the R-2 District, the rear yard
shall be the same as in the R-2 District. For all other uses, a rear yard is
not required, except when it abuts upon an R-1 or R-2 District; in which case,
there shall be a rear yard of not less than ten feet.
   (D)   Signs. Advertising signs may be used when attached to a building and
advertising only services, articles or products which are offered within the
building to which such sign is attached; and, provided that, such sign shall
not extend above the outside walls of such building, nor more than one foot
from the face of the walls of such building, nor shall it contain an area of
more than 12 square feet. One freestanding sign not to exceed 24 feet in height
will be allowed in the front yard; provided, such sign does not exceed 30
square feet in area.
   (E)   Intensity of use. For uses permitted in the R-2 District, the minimum
lot area and minimum lot width shall be the same as in the R-2 District. There
are no minimum lot area or lot width requirements for other uses.
   (F)   Parking regulations. Parking regulations for dwellings are the same as
those in the R-2 District. Where any structure is erected, reconstructed or
converted for commercial uses or any of the business uses permitted in this
section parking spaces shall be provided at the ratio of not less than one
parking space for each 200 square feet of floor space in the building which is
used for commercial purposes. Such parking space may be located on the same lot
as the building or on an area within 300 feet of the building. Two or more
owners of the building may join together providing this parking space.
   (G)   Additional use, height and area regulations. Additional use, height
and area regulations and exceptions are found in §
159.02(B) of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 93-3)
§ 159.29  C-2, COMMERCIAL-2 DISTRICT.
   The following regulations shall apply to the C-2 Commercial District.
   (A)   Use regulations. A building or premises in this district shall be used
only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted in District R-1;
      (2)   Automobile or trailer display and sales, repair garages, tire and
seat cover shops, car wash;
      (3)   Automobile museum;
      (4)   Bakeries;
      (5)   Banks;
      (6)   Building material storage yards;
      (7)   Business or commercial school;
      (8)   Candy and jewelry manufacturing;
      (9)   Carpentry, painting, plumbing or tin-smithing shops;
      (10)   Cleaning and dyeing plants, laundry;
      (11)   Creamery, ice cream manufacturing and dairy operation;
      (12)   Farm implement display and sales room;
      (13)   Florist shop or green house;
      (14)   Ice plants;
      (15)   Laundries, self service;
      (16)   Milk distributing station;
      (17)   Mortuaries;
      (18)   Offices and office buildings;
      (19)   Pet shops, retail;
      (20)   Printing, engraving and newspaper plants;
      (21)   Public utilities substations;
      (22)   Radio or television broadcasting station or studio;
      (23)   Retail stores;
      (24)   Upholstering shop, not involving furniture manufacturing;
      (25)   Veterinarian or animal hospital provided that no such building,
kennel or exercise runway shall be closer than 50 feet to any R district;
      (26)   Wholesale establishments and warehouses;
      (27)   Any similar uses as determined by the Board of Adjustments which
are not likely to create any more offensive noise, vibration, dust, heat,
smoke, odor, glare or other objectionable influences than the minimum amount
normally resulting from other uses permitted, such permitted uses being
generally wholesale and retail trade, service industries and light industries
that manufacture, process, store and distribute goods and materials and are, in
general, department on raw materials refined elsewhere; and
      (28)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above uses; provided that, such be not objectionable because of odor, smoke,
dust, noise, vibration or similar nuisance.
   (B)   Height regulation. No building shall exceed six stories or 75 feet in
height.
   (C)   Yard regulations.
      (1)   Front yard. For uses permitted in the R-2 District, the front yard
requirements shall apply and, for other uses permitted in this district, no
front yard is required.
      (2)   Side yard. For uses permitted in R-2 District, the side yard
requirements for the R-2 District apply. For other uses, no side yards are
required.
      (3)   Rear yard. For uses permitted in the R-2 District, the R-2 rear
yard requirements shall apply. For other uses, no rear yards are required.
   (D)   Signs. Lighted and unlighted signs and poster boards are allowed.
   (E)   Intensity of use. For uses permitted in the R-2 District, the minimum
lot area and minimum lot width shall be the same as the R-2 District. There are
no minimum lot area or lot width requirements for other uses.
   (F)   Parking regulations.
      (1)   The parking regulations for dwellings are the same as those in the
C-1 District.
      (2)   Where any structure is erected reconstructed or converted for any
of the business of commercial uses permitted in this section parking spaces
shall be provided in this ratio of not less than one parking space for each 200
square feet of floor space in the building which is used for commercial
purposes. Such parking space may be located on the same lot as the building or
on an area within 300 feet of the building. Two or more owners of buildings may
join together to provide this parking space.
      (3)   Motel: at least one parking space shall be provided and maintained
on the lot for each living unit.
   (G)   Additional use, height and regulations. Additional use, height and
area regulations and exceptions are found in §
159.02(B) of this chapter.
(2012 Code, § 93-6)
§ 159.30  M-1, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   The following regulations shall apply to the M-1 Industrial District.
   (B)   A building or premises in this district shall be used only for the
following purposes:
      (1)   Any use permitted to District C-2;
      (2)   Apparel and other products assembled from finished textiles;
      (3)   Bottling works;
      (4)   Carting, express, hauling or storage yard;
      (5)   Coal, coke or wood yard;
      (6)   Contractor’s yard;
      (7)   Cosmetic manufacture;
      (8)   Drugs and pharmaceutical products manufacturing;
      (9)   Electronic products assembly;
      (10)   Fur good manufacture, but not including tanning or dyeing;
      (11)   Glass products, from previously manufactured glass;
      (12)   Household appliance products assembly and manufacture from
prefabricated parts;
      (13)   Industrial and manufacturing plants including the processing or
assembling of parts for production of finished equipment where the process of
manufacturing or treatment of materials is such that only a nominal amount of
dust, odor, gas, smoke or noise is emitted and not more than 10% of the lot or
tract is used for the open storage of products, materials or equipment;
      (14)   Musical instruments assembly and manufacture; and
      (15)   Plastic products manufacture, but not including the processing of
raw materials.
(2012 Code, § 93-7)
§ 159.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to enforce the
provisions of this chapter and to refuse to issue any permit for any building
or for the use of any premises which would violate any of the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   In case any building is erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered,
repaired or converted or any building or land is used in violation of this
chapter, the Building Inspector is authorized and directed to institute any
appropriate action to put an end to any such violation.
   (C)   Any person or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or fail to comply therewith or with any of the requirements
thereof or who shall build or alter any building in violation of any detailed
statement or plan submitted and approved hereunder shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be liable to a fine and each day such violation shall be
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The owner or owners of
any building or premises or part thereof where anything in violation of this
chapter shall be placed or shall exist and any architect, engineer, builder,
contractor, agent, person or corporation employed in connection therewith and
who may have assisted in the commission of any such violation shall be guilty
of a separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined as herein
before provided.
(2012 Code, § 93-15)
CHAPTER 160:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS
Section
   
160.01   Purpose
   
160.02   Applicability
   
160.03   Definitions
   
160.04   License for recreational vehicle parks
   
160.05   Inspections
   
160.06   Notices, hearings and orders
   
160.07   Site development plan
   
160.08   Length of stay
   
160.09   Size of individual sites; pad requirements
   
160.10   Street access
   
160.11   Soil and ground cover
   
160.12   Area(s) designated for vehicle parking
   
160.13   Drainage
   
160.14   Water supply
   
160.15   Wastewater facilities
   
160.16   Electrical service
   
160.17   Storage, collection and disposal of refuse and garbage
   
160.18   Accessory structures
   
160.19   Registration of guest
   
160.20   Control of insects, rodents and other pests
   
160.21   Fire safety standards; fire hydrants
   
160.22   Change of ownership of existing non-conforming recreational vehicle
parks
 
   
160.99   Penalty
§ 160.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is created to promote the safety and health of the residents of
such communities and of other nearby communities. Additionally, this chapter is
created to encourage economical and orderly development of such communities and
of other nearby communities. It is, therefore, declared to be the policy of the
city to eliminate and prevent health and safety hazards and to promote the
economical and orderly development and utilization of land by providing for
planned and supervised recreational vehicle communities by providing for the
standards and regulations necessary to accomplish these purposes.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.02  APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to any recreational vehicle park(s) and to any
recreational vehicle located on a lot, tract or parcel with the city limits or
within the city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) when the lot, tract or
parcel in the ETJ is regulated by the city’s ordinances and building codes
through a signed water and/or sewer utility contract. RV parks can only be
located in R-3 Mobile Home zoned areas.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  Any structural improvement and/or accessory building
to a recreational vehicle or site, including awnings, cabanas, carports,
garages, porches, storage cabinets, storage sheds and similar appurtenant
structures.
   BIODEGRADABLE.  Capable of being decomposed by biological agents, especially
bacteria.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL.  The official of the city responsible for permitting and
inspections of building, mechanical, electrical and plumbing associated with a
property.
   LICENSEE or AGENT.  A person who may or may not own the RV park but is the
person responsible for the day-to-day management and operations including the
records and license of the RV park.
   MAJORITY OWNERSHIP.  A firm or entity, person or developer who controls at
least 51% of ownership.
   OPAQUE FENCE.  A fence made of solid masonry, wood or vinyl materials
designed to shield the RV park from public view.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicular, portable structure designed to be
transported over the highways and containing living or sleeping accommodations.
Such structure being designed and actually used as a temporary dwelling during
travel for recreation and pleasure purposes and not exceeding eight feet in
width and 40 feet in length, less side pull outs. RV cannot be older ten years
old.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE SITE or RV SITE.  That part of a lot or area in a
recreational vehicle park or RV park that has been reserved for the placement
of one recreational vehicle or RV.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.04  LICENSE FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any RV park within the city
limits unless he or she holds a certificate of occupancy/license issued
annually by the city in the name of the person for the specific RV park. The
applicant shall make all applications for the license on forms furnished by the
city which shall issue a license upon compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. It shall further be unlawful for any person to place, or have placed,
an individual RV, for the purpose of inhabiting said RV, on any lot, parcel or
tract of land, within the city limits or within the city’s extraterritorial
jurisdiction (ETJ) when the lot, tract or parcel is regulated by the city’s
ordinances and building codes through a signed water and/or sewer utility
contract, that is connected to utilities (such as, electrical, water and
sewer).
   (A)   Hearing on denial.  Any person whose application for a license, under
this chapter, has been denied may request, and shall be granted, a hearing on
this matter before the Planning and Zoning and City Council.
   (B)   Application for renewal. All RV park licenses expire on December 31 of
every year. Application for renewal of a license shall be made in writing by
the licensee on forms furnished by the city on or before October 1 of each
year. If application for renewal is not submitted within the specified time
line, then a late fee of $25 shall be accrued for each week following the
deadline. Such application shall contain any changes in the information
occurring after the original license was issued or the latest renewal granted.
   (C)   Fee. All applications shall be accompanied by a fee as provided for in
the building fee schedule.
   (D)   Approval of transfer. Every person holding a license shall give notice
in writing to the city within ten days after having sold, transferred, given
away or otherwise disposed of interest in, or control of, any RV park.
Application for transfer of a license shall be made within ten calendar days
after notification of change covered in this section. Within 30 calendar days
thereafter, the city shall act on the application for license transfer and it
shall be approved if the RV park is in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   Suspension.
      (1)   Whenever, upon inspection of any RV park, the city finds that
conditions or practices exist which are in violation of any provisions of this
chapter or adopted building codes applicable to such park, the city shall
provide notice in writing to the owner and/or manager of the park, and if such
conditions or practices have not been corrected in the time frame set forth in
the notice, the city will suspend the license and give notice of such
suspension. Upon suspension of the license, the licensee shall cease operation
of such park.
      (2)   The suspension of the license may be appealed to the Planning and
Zoning and appeals as set forth by this chapter.
      (3)   It is required that every person holding a RV park license shall
give notice in writing to the city within ten days after voluntary cessation of
operations of the RV park.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)  Penalty, see §
160.99
§ 160.05  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Authorized. The Building Official or designee shall make one annual
inspection per RV park and additional inspections as are necessary, without
prior notice, to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Entry on premises. The Building Official and Code Enforcement Officer
shall have the power to enter, during normal operation hours, upon any private
or public property with the purpose of inspection and investigating conditions
relating to the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.06  NOTICES, HEARINGS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   Whenever it is determined there are grounds to believe there has
been a violation of any provision of this chapter, or any other city ordinance,
the city shall give notice of such alleged violation to the licensee or agent,
as hereinafter provided. Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
         (c)   Allow ten business days for compliance. The Building Official is
authorized to grant extensions for work that may require more than ten business
days. The extensions shall be in writing and justifiable cause demonstrated;
         (d)   Be served upon the licensee or his or her agent; provided that
such notice or order shall be deemed to have been properly served upon such
licensee or agent when a copy of thereof has been served in person or sent by
certified mail to his or her last known address; and
         (e)   Citations may be issued after all procedures outlined above have
been exhausted.
      (2)   If the city mails a notice to the property owner in accordance with
state law and the United States Postal Service returns the notice as refused or
unclaimed, the validity of the notice is not affected, the notice is considered
as delivered.
   (B)   Appeals. Appeals to the City Council and Planning and Zoning can be
made by any person aggrieved or by an officer, department or board of the
aggrieved party affected by any decision of the Building Official. Such appeal
shall be filed with the Building Official within 15 days after the decision has
been rendered by the Building Official.
   (C)   Public hearings. At a public hearing relative to any appeal, any
interested party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney. The burden of
proof shall be on the applicant to establish the necessary facts to warrant
favorable action of the City Council on any appeal. Any special exception or
variance granted or authorized by the board, under the provision of this
section, shall authorize the issuance of a building permit or a certificate of
occupancy, as the case may be, for a period of 90 days from the date of the
favorable action of the board, unless said board shall have, in its action
approved a longer period of time and has so shown such specific longer period
in the minutes of the action. If the building permit and/or certificate of
occupancy shall be have been applied for within said 90-day period, or such
extended period as the board may have specifically granted, then the special
exception or variance shall be deemed to have been waived and all rights
hereunder terminated. Such termination and waiver shall be without prejudice to
a subsequent appeal, and such subsequent appeal shall be subject to the same
regulation and requirement for hearing as herein specified for the original
appeal.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.07  SITE DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   A comprehensive site development plan, including all proposed on-site
utilities, right-of-way and drainage, RV site(s) layout, building improvements,
landscaping, driveway locations and specifications, interior access road
locations and materials, fencing, lighting and signage must be prepared and
submitted to the city and must address and include all requirements contained
in this chapter.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.08  LENGTH OF STAY.
   Length of stay will be limited to up to eight months at a time, unless a
longer stay is approved by the City Administrator. RV will be required to
rotate out for a length of 30 days before returning.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.09  SIZE OF INDIVIDUAL SITES; PAD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each recreational vehicle site within the RV park shall have a minimum
area of 1,500 square feet and shall be at least 25 feet in width.
   (B)   Each RV park site shall have a permanent site marker or sign clearly
identifying the site number. Each site marker or sign shall be easily visible
from the adjacent RV park roadway during both daytime and nighttime.
   (C)   Each RV park site shall include a RV parking pad consisting of
concrete, road base or asphalt of a minimum size of ten feet wide and 42 feet
in depth and a 10' x 10' concrete parking pad of each RV site.
   (D)   RV site parking pads shall be situated on the RV park sites such that
all recreational vehicles shall be separated by a minimum of ten feet.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.10  STREET ACCESS.
   (A)   Each recreational vehicle site within the RV park shall have access to
an internal private roadway which shall have access to a public street. The
entrance of the internal roadway shall have a pavement width of at least 25
feet with an adequate curve radius or flare.
   (B)   The major thoroughfare shall have a pavement width (concrete, asphalt
or road base) of 25 feet in accordance with city standards. The roadway may be
15 feet if the RV park is designed for one-way roads.
   (C)   Each emergency access lane shall have a clear unobstructed width of 28
feet; 15 feet if one-way and shall have a turning areas and radii with a
minimum of 60 feet to permit free movement of emergency vehicles.
   (D)   Final approval of the street and access plan with be issued by the
Building Official or designee during the review of the proposed site
development plan.
   (E)   On street parking of RVs shall not be allowed. All RVs must be parked
in their respective spaces. On street parking is not allowed.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.11  SOIL AND GROUND COVER.
   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of the RV parks shall be protected with
vegetative cover that is capable of preventing soil erosion and eliminating
dust.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.12  AREA(S) DESIGNATED FOR VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   Each recreational vehicle site within the RV park shall have a minimum
of one 12' x 25' off-street parking space provided. One extra vehicle is
allowed with an RV.
   (B)   Each RV park shall provide a minimum of one common guest parking space
for every four recreational vehicle sites.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.13  DRAINAGE.
   The ground surface in all parts of the RV park shall be graded and designed
to drain all storm water and surface water in a safe, efficient manner.
Drainage analysis shall be performed by a licensed professional engineer and
easements for the conveyance of surface water off-site shall be obtained, if
necessary.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.14  WATER SUPPLY.
   Each site within an RV park shall be provided with a connection to the city
water supply. The city must approve all proposed water facility plans prior to
construction. The water distribution system shall be installed as follows:
   (A)   The water supply system, fixtures and other equipment must be
installed in accordance with applicable codes adopted by the city.
   (B)   A master water meter shall be installed to the RV park.
   (C)   A reduced pressure principal backflow preventer will be required to be
placed at the property line on the discharge side of the master meter or any
other city-issued water meters.
   (D)   A shut-off valve shall be provided on each branch water service line.
All shut-off valves shall be enclosed in an appropriate valve box. All valves
shall be labeled.
   (E)   The owner/operator shall have complete maintenance responsibility for
the water system within the RV park.
   (F)   The city has no maintenance responsibility for service water lines
within the RV park. The responsibility of the city stops at the property line.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.15  WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   Each site within the RV park shall be provided with a connection for
wastewater service. All proposed wastewater service lines shall be connected to
on site wastewater collection lines, which shall then connect to the city
wastewater collection system. The city must approve all proposed wastewater
facility plans prior to construction.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.16  ELECTRICAL SERVICE.
   Each site within the RV park shall be provided with electrical service. All
electrical service shall be underground and installed in accordance with the
most currently adopted National Electrical Code. The electrical service shall
be installed as follows:
   (A)   A master electric meter shall be installed to serve the RV park. Sub-
metering or re-metering for private purposes by the owner/operator of the RV
park is permitted however sub-metering or re-metering of individual RV sites
for public purposes, as determined by the city, is not permitted.
   (B)   The city has no maintenance responsibility for service lines within
the RV park.
   (C)   The location of all underground lines shall be clearly marked by
surface signs at approved intervals.
   (D)   Power supply to each RV site shall be a minimum of one 20-amp, one 30-
amp and one 50-amp power supply.
   (E)   Outlets (receptacles or pressure connectors) shall be housed in an
Underwriter’s Laboratories, Inc. approved weather proof outlet box.
   (F)   A water tight seal shall be provided for underground conduit in
floodplain installations and a riser extending a minimum of two feet above the
floodplain elevation shall be provided.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.17  STORAGE, COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF REFUSE AND GARBAGE.
   Each RV park shall be provided with adequate facilities for the collection
and removal of waste and garbage. Storage, collection and handling shall be
conducted so as to not create any health hazards, rodent harborage, insect
breeding areas or fire hazards. The city staff shall determine the amount of
weekly pickups and the appropriate number of refuse containers to be placed
within the RV park.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.18  ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   The individual RV sites within the RV park are not allowed to have accessory
structures.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.19  REGISTRATION OF GUEST.
   Each person occupying a site within a RV park shall provide the following
information to the owner, manager, operator or person in charge of the RV park:
   (A)   Name;
   (B)   Full address of permanent residence;
   (C)   Automobile and recreational vehicle license plate number and the state
in which each is registered;
   (D)   Photocopy of driver’s license of the primary tenant;
   (E)   The number or letter of the designated site being rented; and
   (F)   Date of arrival and departure.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.20  CONTROL OF INSECTS, RODENTS AND OTHER PESTS.
   Grounds, buildings and structures in the RV park shall be maintained free of
the accumulation of high grass, weeds and debris so as to prevent rodent, snake
harborage or the breeding of flies, mosquitoes or other pests.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.21  FIRE SAFETY STANDARDS; FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Open fires shall be allowed only in a manner and within a container
approved by city ordinance.
   (B)   A fire hydrant(s) must be placed such that each recreational vehicle
site is not more than 500 feet away.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.22  CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OF EXISTING NON-CONFORMING RV PARK.
   Upon a change of ownership of an existing non-conforming RV park, as
referenced above, the new owner shall be issued a temporary license and given
90 days to bring the existing RV park into compliance with the requirements of
this chapter. The Building Official is authorized to grant extensions for work
that may require more than 90 days. The extension shall be in writing and
justifiable cause demonstrated. Change of ownership shall include a change from
ownership of any person, firm or entity to any other person, firm or entity.
Change of ownership shall not include an assignment to an entity formed and
majority owned by the original existing nonconforming owner.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
§ 160.99  PENALTY.
   Any non-compliance with this chapter is hereby deemed a nuisance. The city
may abate and remove the nuisance and hold the RV park owner responsible for
causing or allowing the nuisance condition to exist. Any person(s) violating
this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500 for each provision
violated and each day that there is a failure to comply with the terms of any
provision of this chapter is declared to be a separate offense. For violations
of the provisions of this chapter that govern fire safety, zoning or public
health and sanitation, including dumping of refuse, the fine may not exceed
$2,000 per day, per violation. The Building Official shall be the authority of
the jurisdiction responsible for the issuance of citations and any action
deemed necessary for the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 190701, passed 7-9-2019)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
II.   STREETS AND PROPERTY
TABLE I:  FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
140301   3-11-2014   Granting a 25-year electricity franchise to Texas-New
                     Mexico Power Company
                    
 
TABLE II:  STREETS AND PROPERTY
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
150801   8-11-2015   Granting a variance to Immanuel Lutheran Church of Clifton
                     and authorizing an encroachment on Crestview Drive
151203   --2015      Designating a certain geographic area as a tax abatement
                     reinvestment zone (No. 2015-1)
                     Authorizing the transfer of a right-of-way easement and
170201   --2017      non-exclusive construction/maintenance easement to the
                     county
180501   --2018      Narrowing, closing and abandoning a portion of North
                     Avenue H
                     Abandoning Avenue H between West 13th Street and West 15th
190602   6-11-2019   Street; abandoning West 13th Street between S. Avenue I
                     and S. Avenue H; abandoning Avenue I between West 11th
                     Street and West 13th Street
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to 2012 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
Administrative Code
 
Tex. Code Section                                 Code Section
Ch. 290                                           52.09
Title 43, Part 1, Ch. 21, Subch. I, Rule § 21.154151.07
                                                  
 
Agriculture Code
 
Tex. Code Section Code Section
141.001 et seq.   Ch. 90
143.082           Ch. 90
201.152           Ch. 157
                  
 
Alcoholic Beverage Code
 
Tex. Code Section Code Section
1.04 et seq.      111.02
11.38          111.03
11.38(d)(3)       111.06
61.36             111.03
109.32(c)         111.07
                  
 
Civil Practice and Remedies Code
 
Tex. Code Section Code Section
101.0215          34.41
101.023           116.05
125.001 et seq.   Ch. 91
                  
 
Code of Criminal Procedure
 
Tex. Code Section       Code Section
Art. 17.04              33.05
Art. 45.001 et seq.     33.04
Art. 45.06              33.05
Art. 102.017            33.08
Subch. A, Art. 102.0172 33.07
                        
 
Education Code
 
Tex. Code Section Code Section
38.007            111.09
53.35(b)          32.35
53A.35(b)         32.35
                  
Election Code
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Tex. Code Section Code Section
3.004 et seq.     35.03
4.001 et seq.     35.03
32.001            35.04
32.005            35.04
32.031 et seq.    35.05
32.091            35.06
32.092            35.06
41.001 et seq.    Ch. 35
41.031            35.10
42.001 et seq.    Ch. 35
43.001 et seq.    Ch. 35
62.014(c)         35.06
Ch. 81 et seq.    35.11
141.031           35.07
143.001 et seq.   Ch. 35
143.007           35.07
145.092(b)        35.09
146.051 et seq.   Ch. 35
 
Family Code
 
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Title 3           131.99
                  
 
Government Code
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Tex. Code Section Code Section
29.004            33.01
29.004(b)         33.02
29.010            33.03
417.007(b)        94.30
417.008           94.29
Ch. 418           38.16
418.121 et seq.   Ch. 157
419.001 et seq.   Ch. 94
441.151           37.01
441.158           37.08
Ch. 551           32.23;
                  32.38
Ch. 552           37.02
Ch. 573           35.07
Ch. 606           31.04
                  
 
Health and Safety Code
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Tex. Code Section Code Section
                  32.50;
Ch. 262           32.53;
                  32.54
Ch. 342           91.15;
                  91.18
342.007           91.34
Ch. 382 et seq.   Ch. 91
Ch. 401           53.23
501.001 et seq.   Ch. 94
753.001 et seq.   Ch. 94
753.002           94.46
756.011 et seq.   130.02
756.021 et seq.   Ch. 150;
                  154.06
791.001 et seq.   Ch. 94;
                  Ch. 150
792.001 et seq.   Ch. 94
793.001 et seq.   Ch. 94
821.001 et seq.   Ch. 90
822.001 et seq.   Ch. 90
822.041 et seq.   90.24
822.041(2)        90.21
822.042           90.21
Ch. 826           90.17
826.001 et seq.   Ch. 90
826.013           90.17
826.031           90.18
826.031 et seq.   Ch. 90;
                  90.24
826.041           90.03
                  
 
Local Government Code
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Tex. Code Section            Code Section
5.001(3)                     11.02
Ch. 6                        11.02
Ch. 21                       11.02
Ch. 22                       11.02
22.005                       31.02
22.031                       30.03
22.031 et seq.               Ch. 30
22.031(b)                    30.01
22.038                       30.02
22.039                       30.03
22.042                       31.16
22.071                       31.01
                             31.35;
22.072(c)                    31.51;
                             31.65
22.073                       31.50
22.075                       31.65
22.076                       34.01
43.102                       Ch. 153
43.903                       Ch. 75
52.003                       31.16
Ch. 53                       10.01
53.001                       10.99
54.001                       10.99
Ch. 102                      31.34
Ch. 103                      36.01
Ch. 105                      31.66
141.001                      31.03
141.007                      34.39
142.006                      Ch. 94
Ch. 201 et seq.              37.04;
                             37.05
201.002                      37.04
201.003                      37.01
201.003(8)                   37.02
201.005                      37.03
203.022(b)                   37.06
203.023                      37.05
203.025                      37.05
203.026                      37.06
203.041 et seq.              37.08
203.042                      37.08
211.007                      32.02
                             32.04;
Ch. 212                      32.07;
                             158.03
212.002                      158.35
212.004                      158.04;
                             158.23
212.004(c)                   158.22
212.006                      158.36
212.0065                     158.01;
                             158.38
212.009(a)                   158.36;
                             158.37
212.009(b)                   158.36;
                             158.37
212.010                      158.35
212.011(a)                   158.06
212.016                      158.08
212.065(a)                   158.08
Ch. 213                      Ch. 150
Ch. 214                      Ch. 150
214.001                      150.54;
                             150.59
214.011 et seq.              Ch. 50
214.014                      158.41
214.015                      158.41
215.004                      Ch. 116;
                             116.01
215.029                      Ch. 70;
                             Ch. 116
215.031                      Ch. 114
Ch. 216                      Ch. 110
217.002                      Ch. 91
Ch. 241                      153.25;
                             153.27
241.001 et seq.              Ch. 153
241.041                      153.29
Ch. 243 (§§ 243.001 et seq.113.02
243.002                      111.10
243.006                      113.04
243.007                      113.25;
                             113.26
Ch. 252                      31.34
273.003                      Ch. 75
Ch. 315                      Ch. 95
Ch. 331 et seq.              Ch. 95
341.001                      34.15
341.011                      31.16;
                             34.42
341.012                      34.35
342.001 et seq.              Ch. 94
342.003(a)(8)                132.01
342.012                      Ch. 150
352.001 et seq.              Ch. 94
Ch. 362                      34.19
551.001 et seq.              Ch. 157
552.001 et seq.              Ch. 50;
                             Ch. 157
552.041 et seq.              Ch. 157
601.001 et seq.              Ch. 70
                             
 
Natural Resources Code
 
Tex. Code Section Code Section
91.601 et seq.    Ch. 91
113.001 et seq.   Ch. 94
                  
 
Parks and Wildlife Code
 
Tex. Code Section Code Section
13.006            Ch. 95
31.092            Ch. 95
                  
 
Penal Code
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Tex. Code Section Code Section
28.02             Ch. 94
Ch. 30            132.02
                  Ch. 114;
30.05             132.02;
                  132.99
38.10             33.05
42.01             Ch. 91
42.06             94.04
42.09             Ch. 90;
                  90.01
42.10             Ch. 90
                  
 
Property Code
 
Tex. Code Section Code Section
92.006            Ch. 94
92.251 et seq.    Ch. 94
                  
 
Tax Code
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Tex. Code Section Code Section
11.18             Ch. 90
151.024           Ch. 114
182.024 et seq.   Ch. 154
321.105           36.02
                  36.65;
351.101           36.67;
                  36.69
351.101(a)(3)     36.69
                  
 
Transportation Code
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Tex. Code Section       Code Section
Ch. 21 et seq.          Ch. 153
Ch. 22                  Ch. 153
Ch. 25                  Ch. 153
112.059                 75.01
Ch. 311                 114.01
Ch. 311 et seq.         Ch. 154
Ch. 313                 Ch. 154
391.031 et seq.         Ch. 110
Ch. 501 et seq.         Ch. 70
502.001                 70.01
502.003                 Ch. 116
Ch. 521                 Ch. 116
Ch. 541                 70.01
Ch. 541 et seq.         Ch. 70
541.201                 95.15
541.201(24)             70.01
541.357                 Ch. 76, Schd. II
542.002                 70.08
542.003                 70.08
542.201 et seq.         Ch. 70
542.202(a)(1)           70.03
542.202(a)(5)           70.06
542.202(a)(10)          72.03
542.501                 70.04
543.009                 33.05
543.113 through 543.115 33.06
543.115                 33.06
Ch. 544                 71.01
544.002                 71.01
Ch. 545                 70.25
545.303                 73.05
545.305                 73.08
545.357                 Ch. 76, Schd. II
547.703                 70.01;
                        70.26
550.026                 70.07
Ch. 551                 70.01
551.102                 70.05
Ch. 552                 74.01;
                        74.03
552.005                 74.02
552.008                 74.03
601.051                 70.27
Ch. 621 through 623     150.35
Ch. 681 et seq.         Ch. 70
Ch. 683                 Ch. 77
683.001                 92.01
683.002                 92.11
683.071                 92.01
683.073                 92.02
                        
 
Utilities Code
 
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Ch. 1 et seq.     Ch. 50
Ch. 11 et seq.    Ch. 50
Ch. 251           155.24
                  
 
Water Code
Tex. Code Section Code Section
Tex. Code Section Code Section
1.001 et seq.     Ch. 50
16.311 et seq.    Ch. 157
16.315            157.01
26.001 et seq.    Ch. 50
51.331 et seq.    Ch. 91
56.120            75.02
56.121            75.02
                  
 
REFERENCES TO 2012 CODE
2012 Code 2020 Code
2012 Code 2020 Code
1-2       10.05
1-9       10.99
1-11      11.01
2-1       11.02
2-36      30.01
2-37      30.02
2-38      30.03
2-71      31.01
2-72      31.02
2-73      31.03
2-74      31.15
2-96      31.16
2-97      31.16
2-121     31.30
2-122     31.31
2-123     31.32
2-124     31.33
2-125     31.34
2-126     31.35
2-127     31.36
2-151     31.50
2-152     31.51
2-176     31.65
2-177     31.66
2-178     31.67
2-179     31.68
2-180     31.69
2-206     31.04
2-207     31.04
2-208     31.04
2-242     32.01
2-243     32.02
2-244     32.03
2-245     32.04
2-246     32.05
2-247     32.06
2-248     32.07
2-250     32.20
2-251     32.21
2-252     32.22
2-253     32.23
2-254     32.24
2-260     32.35
2-261     32.36
2-262     32.37
2-263     32.38
2-264     32.39
2-281     36.01
2-306     39.15
2-307     39.16
2-308     39.17
2-309     39.18
2-310     39.19
2-346     37.01
2-347     37.02
2-348     37.03
2-349     37.04
2-350     37.05
2-351     37.06
2-352     37.05
2-353     37.07
2-354     37.08
2-355     37.08
2-356     37.09
2-500     39.30
2-501     39.31
2-502     39.32
2-503     39.33
2-504     39.34
2-505     39.35
2-506     39.36
2-507     39.37
2-508     39.38
2-509     39.39
2-510     39.40
6-1       110.01
6-2       110.02
10-1      90.01;
          90.99
10-2      90.02
10-3      90.03
10-4      90.04
10-36     90.15
10-37     90.16
10-38     90.17
10-39     90.18
10-40     90.19
10-41     90.20
10-42     90.21
10-43     90.21
10-44     90.21
10-45     90.22
10-46     90.23
10-47     90.24
10-48     90.25
10-49     90.26
10-50     90.29
10-51     90.99
10-52     90.24
10-53     90.27
10-76     90.40
10-77     90.41
10-78     90.99
10-79     90.40
14-31     153.01
14-32     153.02
14-33     153.03
14-34     153.04
14-35     153.05
14-71     153.20
14-72     153.21
14-73     153.22
14-74     153.23
14-75     153.24
14-76     153.25
14-77     153.26
14-78     153.27
14-79     153.28
14-80     153.29
14-81     153.30
14-82     153.99
14-101    153.45
14-102    153.46
14-103    153.47
14-104    153.48
14-105    153.49
14-106    153.50
18-1      150.01
18-2      150.02;
          150.99
18-37     150.15;
          150.99
18-38     150.15
18-39     150.15
18-71     150.16;
          150.99
18-106    150.17
18-107    150.17
18-108    150.17
18-109    150.17
18-110    150.17
18-111    150.17
18-112    150.17
18-113    150.17
18-114    150.17
18-115    150.17
18-116    150.17
18-141    150.17
18-142    150.17
18-143    150.17
18-144    150.17
18-145    150.17
18-181    150.30
18-182    150.31
18-183    150.32
18-184    150.33
18-185    150.34
18-186    150.35
18-200    151.01
18-201    151.02
18-202    151.03
18-203    151.04
18-204    151.99
18-205    151.05
18-206    151.06
18-207    151.07
18-208    151.08
18-209    151.09
18-210    151.09
18-211    151.10
18-212    151.11
18-213    151.12
18-214    151.13
18-221    150.50
18-222    150.51
18-223    150.52
18-224    150.53
18-225    150.54
18-226    150.55
18-227    150.56
18-228    150.56
18-229    150.57
18-230    150.58
18-231    150.59
18-232    152.01
18-233    152.02
18-234    152.03
18-235    152.04
18-236    152.05
18-237    152.06
18-238    152.07
18-239    152.08
18-240    152.09
18-241    152.10
18-244    152.99
18-245    152.11
18-251    150.03
18-252    150.03
18-253    150.03
          112.01—
19-1      112.03;
          112.99
19-31     113.01
19-32     113.02
19-34     113.03
19-35     113.04
19-36     113.04
19-37     113.05
19-38     113.06
19-39     113.07
19-40     113.08
19-41     113.09
19-42     113.10
19-61     113.25
19-62     113.26
19-63     113.27
19-70     111.01
19-71     111.02
19-72     111.03
19-73     111.04
19-74     111.05
19-75     111.06
19-76     111.07
19-77     111.08
19-78     111.09
19-79     111.10
19-80     111.11
19-81     111.12
19-200    114.01
19-201    114.02
19-202    114.03
19-203    114.03
19-204    114.04
19-205    114.05
19-206    114.05
19-207    114.06
19-208    114.07
19-209    114.07
19-210    114.08
19-211    114.08
19-212    114.09
19-213    114.09
19-214    114.10
19-371    114.11
22-1      38.01
22-31     38.15
22-32     38.16
22-33     38.17
22-34     38.18
22-35     38.19
22-36     38.20
22-37     38.21
22-38     38.22
26-31     33.01
26-32     33.02
26-33     33.03
26-34     33.04
26-35     33.05
26-36     33.06
26-37     33.07
30-1      35.01
30-2      35.02
30-3      35.03
30-4      35.04
30-5      35.05
30-6      35.06
30-7      35.07
30-8      35.07
30-9      35.08
30-10     35.09
30-11     35.10
30-12     35.11
30-13     35.12
30-14     35.13
34-31     91.01
34-32     91.02
34-66     91.15
34-67     91.16
34-68     91.17
34-69     91.18
34-70     156.01
34-71     156.02
34-72     156.03
34-73     156.04
34-74     156.05
34-75     156.06
34-76     156.06
34-77     156.07
34-78     156.08
34-79     156.06
34-80     156.09;
          156.99
34-81     156.10
34-91     91.30
34-92     91.31
34-93     91.32
34-94     91.33
34-95     91.33
34-96     91.34
34-97     91.99
34-100    93.01
34-101    93.02
34-102    93.03
34-103    93.04
34-104    93.99
38-1      94.01
38-2      94.02
38-3      94.03
38-4      94.04
38-5      94.05
38-6      94.06
38-7      94.07
38-41     94.20
38-42     94.21
38-43     94.22
38-44     94.23
38-45     94.24
38-46     94.25
38-47     94.26
38-48     94.27
38-49     94.28
38-50     94.29
38-51     94.30
38-52     94.31
38-53     94.32
38-86     94.45
38-87     94.45
38-88     94.46
38-89     94.46
38-90     94.47
38-91     94.48
42-1      157.01
42-2      157.02
42-3      157.03
42-4      157.04
42-5      157.05
42-6      157.06
42-7      157.07
42-8      157.08
42-9      157.09
42-10     157.10
42-11     157.11
42-12     157.12
42-51     157.25
42-52     157.25
42-53     157.26
42-54     157.27
42-61     157.40
42-62     157.41
42-63     157.42
42-65     157.99
46-1      34.01
46-10     34.35
46-36     34.15
46-37     34.16
46-38     34.17
46-39     34.17
46-40     34.18
46-41     34.19
46-66     34.20
46-67     34.20
46-68     34.20
46-69     34.20
46-70     34.20
46-102    34.36
46-103    34.37
46-104    34.38
46-105    34.39
46-106    34.40
46-107    34.41
46-108    34.42
46-109    34.43
56-31     52.35
56-32     52.36
56-33     52.37
60-1      130.01;
          130.99
60-2      130.02
60-3      130.03
60-4      130.04;
          130.99
60-36     131.01
60-37     131.02
60-38     131.03
60-39     131.04
60-40     131.99
60-71     132.01
60-72     132.02;
          132.99
60-91     115.01
60-92     115.02
60-93     115.03
60-94     115.04
60-95     115.05
60-96     115.06
60-97     115.07
60-98     115.08
64-1      95.15
64-2      95.16
64-3      95.17
64-4      95.18
64-5      95.19
64-7      95.20
68-31     114.25
68-32     114.26
68-33     114.27
68-34     114.28
68-35     114.29
68-36     114.30
68-61     114.31
68-62     114.31
68-63     114.31
68-64     114.31
68-65     114.31
68-66     114.31
68-67     114.31
68-68     114.31
68-69     114.32
72-1      51.01
72-2      51.02
72-3      51.03
72-4      51.04
72-5      51.04
72-6      51.05
72-41     51.06
72-42     51.06
72-43     51.06
72-44     51.06
76-1      154.01
76-2      154.02
76-3      154.03
76-4      154.04
76-5      154.05
76-6      154.06
76-7      154.07
76-8      154.07
77-1      158.01
77-2      158.02
77-3      158.03
77-21     158.04
77-22     158.05
77-26     158.20
77-37     158.21
77-38     158.22
77-39     158.23
77-56     158.35
77-57     158.36
77-58     158.37
77-59     158.38
77-60     158.39
77-61     158.40
77-62     158.41
77-63     158.41
77-64     158.41
77-86     158.06
77-91     158.06
77-96     158.06
77-97     158.06
77-101    158.07
77-106    158.08
77-107    158.08
77-108    158.08
77-109    158.08
77-111    158.55
77-112    158.56
77-113    158.57
77-126    158.58
77-127    158.58
77-128    158.58
77-129    158.58
77-130    158.58
77-146    158.59
77-147    158.59
77-148    158.59
77-196    158.60
77-197    158.60
77-211    158.61
77-212    158.61
77-226    158.62
80-1      36.02
80-36     36.03
80-37     36.04
80-38     36.20—
          36.30
80-39     36.05
80-51     36.45
80-52     36.46
80-53     36.46
80-54     36.47
80-55     36.48
80-56     36.49
80-57     36.50
80-58     36.51
80-59     36.52
84-1      70.01
84-3      70.02
84-4      70.02
84-5      70.03
84-6      70.03
84-7      70.03
84-8      70.04
84-9      70.05
84-10     70.05
84-11     70.05
84-12     70.06
84-13     70.05
84-14     70.07
84-15     70.07
84-16     70.08
84-17     70.08
84-18     70.09
84-19     70.05
84-20     70.06
84-51     72.01
84-52     72.02
84-53     72.03
84-54     Ch. 76, Schd. I
84-55     72.04
84-56     72.04
84-57     72.05
84-58     72.05
84-59     72.06
84-60     72.07
84-91     71.01
84-92     71.02
84-93     71.02
84-94     71.03
84-95     71.04
84-96     71.05
84-97     71.06
84-98     71.07
84-131    Ch. 76, Schd. II
84-132    Ch. 76, Schd. II
84-133    Ch. 76, Schd. II
84-134    Ch. 76, Schd. II
84-166    Ch. 77, Schd. I
84-167    73.01
84-168    73.02
84-169    73.03
84-170    73.04
84-171    73.05
84-172    73.06
84-173    73.07
84-174    73.07
84-175    73.07
84-176    73.08
84-177    73.09
84-178    73.10
84-179    73.11
84-211    74.01
84-212    74.02
84-213    74.03
84-246    92.01
84-247    92.02
84-248    92.03
84-249    92.04
84-250    92.05
84-251    92.06
84-252    92.07
84-253    92.08
84-254    92.09
84-255    92.10
84-256    92.11
84-291    75.01
84-292    75.02
84-293    75.03
88-1      50.01
88-2      50.02
88-3      50.03
88-36     52.01
88-37     52.02
88-38     52.03
88-39     52.03
88-40     52.03
88-41     52.03
88-42     52.03
88-43     52.04
88-44     52.05
88-45     52.06
88-46     52.07
88-47     52.08
88-48     52.08
88-49     52.08
88-50     52.08
88-51     52.08
88-52     52.08
88-53     52.08
88-54     52.08
88-55     52.08
88-60     52.09
88-62     52.09
88-81     52.20
88-82     52.21
88-83     52.22
88-116    53.01
88-136    53.15
88-138    53.16
88-139    53.17
88-140    53.18
88-141    53.19
88-142    53.20
88-143    53.21
88-160    53.22
88-162    53.23
88-163    53.24
88-164    53.25
88-165    53.26
88-166    53.27
88-167    53.28
88-168    53.29
88-169    53.29
88-170    53.30
88-171    53.30
88-172    53.31
88-173    53.32
88-174    53.33
88-175    53.34
88-176    53.35
88-177    53.35
88-178    53.36
88-179    53.37
88-180    53.37
88-181    53.38
88-182    53.38
88-183    53.39
88-184    53.40
88-185    53.41
88-201    53.42
88-202    53.43
88-203    53.44
88-204    53.44
88-205    53.44
88-206    53.99
88-207    53.45
92-31     116.01
92-32     116.02
92-33     116.03
92-34     116.04
92-35     116.05
92-36     116.06
92-37     116.07
92-61     116.20
92-62     116.21
92-63     116.21
92-64     116.22
92-65     116.23
92-66     116.24
92-67     116.25
93-1      159.01
93-2      159.02
93-3      159.25;
          159.28
93-4      159.26
93-5      159.27
93-6      159.03;
          159.29
93-7      159.30
93-8      159.02
93-9      159.04
93-10     159.05
93-11     159.06
93-12     159.07
93-13     159.08
93-14     159.09
93-15     159.99
93-16     159.10
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
961002   10-8-1996   53.45
–      3-3-2003    113.05;
                     113.06
                     150.16;
060904   - -2006     150.17;
                     150.99
070701   - -2007     36.05
071602   - -2007     36.20—
                     36.30
080602   - -2008     151.07
080701   - -2008     150.02;
                     150.99
                     70.01;
–      9-14-2012   70.25—
                     70.27;
                     70.99
120802   9-11-2012   32.50—
                     32.54
130101   - -2013     33.08
130601   6-14-2013   90.40
                     155.01—
                     155.04;
131101   11-23-2013  155.15—
                     155.32;
                     155.99
131201   12-10-2013  36.65—
                     36.69
140301   3-11-2014   TSO Table I
140602   6-10-2014   39.01
140801   8-12-2014   95.01
140802   8-12-2014   94.02
140903   9-9-2014    52.08
150201   2-10-2015   150.55
150401   4-14-2015   95.20
150801   8-11-2015   TSO Table II
150904   9-8-2015    51.06
151201   - -2015     150.15
151203   - -2015     TSO Table II
170201   - -2017     TSO Table II
171101   - -2017     95.20
171102   - -2017     52.08
180501   - -2018     TSO Table II
190301   3-12-2019   52.08
190302   3-12-2019   52.08
190602   6-11-2019   TSO Table II
                     160.01—
190701   7-9-2019    160.22;
                     160.99
                     151.06;
191002   10-8-2019   151.07;
                     151.10;
                     151.13
191101   11-12-2019  90.20
191102   11-12-2019  90.28
                    
 
 
 
