HOLIDAY LAKES, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2022 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-10
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE TOWN OF HOLIDAY LAKES,
TEXAS, REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED
IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Town of Holiday
Lakes, Texas, are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the Town and for the proper conduct of its
affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Texas empower and
authorize the Town of Holiday Lakes to revise, amend, restate, codify and
compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted
or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book
form; and
WHEREAS, the Town Council of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Town of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Town that this ordinance take effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF HOLIDAY
LAKES, TEXAS:
Section 1.   The general ordinances of The Town of Holiday Lakes as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Town of Holiday Lakes,
Texas".
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
      Title I:      General Provisions
      Title III:   Administration
      Title V:   Public Works
      Title VII:   Traffic Code
      Title IX:   General Regulations
      Title XI:   Business Regulations
      Title XIII:   General Offenses
      Title XV:   Land Usage
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4.   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Town Council and the Mayor of the Town of Holiday Lakes,
Texas, is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of
Ordinances in the Office of the Mayor.
Section 5.   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF HOLIDAY LAKES, TEXAS THIS THE 5th DAY
OF DECEMBER, 2017.
/s/ Norman C. Schroeder
NORMAN C. SCHROEDER
MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/ Sunday Strickler
SUNDAY STRICKLER
CITY SECRETARY
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-03
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE TOWN OF HOLIDAY LAKES, TEXAS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2017 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Holiday
Lakes, Texas; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Town that this ordinance take effect at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF HOLIDAY
LAKES, TEXAS:
Section 1.   That the 2018 S-1 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Holiday Lakes as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council of Holiday Lakes and the Town
Secretary is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Town
Secretary.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this Town, and shall take effect at the earliest date provided
by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF HOLIDAY LAKES, TEXAS THIS THE 15th
DAY OF MAY, 2018.
/s/ Norman C. Schroeder
NORMAN C. SCHROEDER
MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/ Sunday Strickler
SUNDAY STRICKLER
CITY SECRETARY
ORDINANCE NO. 2018-11
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF HOLIDAY LAKES, TEXAS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2018 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town, which
supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted
since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town of Holiday
Lakes, Texas; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Town that this ordinance take effect at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF HOLIDAY
LAKES, TEXAS:
Section 1.   That the 2018 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Holiday Lakes as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council of Holiday Lakes and the Town
Secretary is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Town
Secretary.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this Town and shall take effect at the earliest date provided
by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF HOLIDAY LAKES, TEXAS THIS THE 18TH
DAY OF DECEMBER, 2018.
/s/ Norman C. Schroeder
NORMAN C. SCHROEDER
MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/ Sunday Strickler
SUNDAY STRICKLER
CITY SECRETARY
ORDINANCE NO. 2019-03
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE TOWN OF HOLIDAY LAKES, TEXAS, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2019 S-3 (March) supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Town, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Holiday Lakes, Texas; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the Town
and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the Town that this ordinance take effect at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE TOWN OF HOLIDAY
LAKES, TEXAS:
Section 1.   That the 2019 S-3 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Town
of Holiday Lakes as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Town Council of Holiday Lakes and the Town
Secretary is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Town
Secretary.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this Town and shall take effect at the earliest date provided
by law.
READ, PASSED AND APPROVED THIS 18th DAY OF JUNE 2019.
 
/s/ Norman C. Schroeder
NORMAN C. SCHROEDER
MAYOR
ATTEST:
/s/ Cindy Clark
CINDY CLARK
TOWN SECRETARY
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   TOWN STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas,
shall be designated as the Code of Holiday Lakes, and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code,
Ch. 53
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of the laws
of the State of Texas.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense; however, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Brazoria County, Texas.
      INCORPORATED LIMITS. See division (C) below.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The Town of Holiday Lakes,
Texas.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
   (C)   Incorporated limits. The Town Council wants to clarify the ordinances
mentioned in the preamble to the ordinance codified herein, to add/amend the
following wording “territorial limits and extra territorial jurisdiction”
(Ord. 2007-002, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including, but not limited to, the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All such ordinances mentioned in division (A) above are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length herein.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, §§ 552.001
et seq.
§ 10.19 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the town to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the town an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any such ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal
ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning and public health and sanitation;
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $2,000, if a motor vehicle is used in illegal
dumping or an offense under the law or town ordinance violated by the illegal
dumping; or
      (3)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases; provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. In the event that any such violation is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, the nuisance may be
summarily abated by the Town Manager or the Chief of Police or their assigns.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001
CHAPTER 11: TOWN STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   Town seal
   
11.02   Official flag
§ 11.01 TOWN SEAL.
   (A)   Adoption of seal. There is hereby adopted for the town a seal, which
shall have a star of five points in the center, with the letters T, E, X, A and
S engraved between the rays of the star, with the words “Town of Holiday Lakes,
Texas” engraved thereon in a circle surrounding the star and with the word
“SEAL” engraved in the center of the star.
   (B)   Keeping and use of seal. The seal of the town shall be kept by the
Secretary of the town and shall be used by the Secretary to attest the official
signature of the Mayor of the town, and to authenticate the official acts of
the Secretary of the town.
(Ord. 82-2, passed 1-27-1982)
§ 11.02 OFFICIAL FLAG.
   (A)   The described flag in the ordinance codified herein design shall be
made into an actual flag, the size of which shall be three feet by five feet.
   (B)   A small, inconspicuous tab shall be sewn into the lower right-hand
corner, giving the designer’s name as Robert and Romono Gekler.
   (C)   This flag shall be designated as the official flag of the town, and
shall be displayed in the proper manner and with the proper respect, at any and
all functions involving or sanctioned by said town.
   (D)   The background is the same color design as the Texas State flag.
Center circle with young boy catching fish with pole.
(Res. 86-31, passed 4-15-1986)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
      
32.   MAYOR, TOWN COUNCIL
      
33.   MUNICIPAL COURT
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
35.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
36.   TAX, FUNDS AND FINANCE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Boundaries
   
30.02   Liability
   
30.03   Write-in candidates
   
30.04   Regional 9-1-1 Emergency Communications District
   
30.05   Building Official
   
30.06   Official newspaper
§ 30.01 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the “Original
Boundary and Map Ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
   (B)   Adoption of survey and boundaries of town. The Town Council finds as a
matter of fact that an actual survey of the boundaries of said town was made by
Freddy A. Gormly, registered professional surveyor of Alvin, Texas, on
September 10, 1981, a copy of the field notes of said survey being attached to
the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit “A”. The Town Council further finds as
a matter of fact that such survey is an accurate survey of the boundaries of
said town designated in the petition for the incorporation of said town filed
in the office of the County Judge, on October 6, 1981, and as set forth in the
order of said Judge dated October 19, 1981, a certified copy of which is
recorded in Volume 1605, beginning at page 128 of the Deed Records of the
county. The Town Council further finds as a matter of fact that such survey is
an accurate survey of the boundaries of said town as the same exists at the
time of the reading, passage and approval of this section. Therefore, pursuant
to the provisions of Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat., Art. 971, the Town Council does
hereby ordain that such survey shall be and the same is hereby adopted as the
official survey of the original boundaries of said town, and does hereby direct
that such field notes be recorded by the Secretary of the town in the Minute
Book thereof.
   (C)   Adoption of map of boundaries of town. The Town Council finds as a
matter of fact that the original boundaries of said town as described in the
survey adopted by division (B) above are correctly shown on the map or plat
styled “Map of Boundaries of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”, prepared by
Freddy A. Gormly, of Alvin, Texas, a copy of which is duly recorded in Volume
1605, page 131 of the Deed Records of the county. The Town Council further
finds as a matter of fact that the boundaries shown on such map or plat are the
boundaries of said town as they exist at the time of the reading, passage and
approval of this section. Therefore, pursuant to the provisions of Tex. Rev.
Civ. Stat., Art. 971a, the Town Council of said town does hereby ordain that
such map or plat be and the same is hereby adopted as the official map showing
the original boundaries of the town, and does hereby direct that the Secretary
of said town endorse thereon the words “Official Map of the Original Boundaries
of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas, adopted by Ordinance No. 82-5 on the 27
day of January, A.D., 1982” inserting the number given to this section when the
same is filed by said Secretary in the ordinance book of said town and the date
this section is read, passed and approved by the Town Council as set forth
below. The Town Council does further direct that such map or plat shall
hereafter be kept in the office of the Secretary of said town.
(Ord. 82-5, passed 1-27-1982)
§ 30.02 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The town shall never be liable for any claim for property damage or
for personal injury, whether such personal injury results in death or not,
unless the person damaged or injured, or someone in his or her behalf, or in
the event the injury results in death, the person or persons who may have a
cause of action under the law by reason of such death injury, shall within 60
days from the date the damage or injury was received give notice in writing to
the Mayor and Town Council of the following facts:
      (1)   The date and time when the injury or damage occurred and the place
where the injured person or property was at the time when the injury was
received;
      (2)   The nature of the damage or injury sustained;
      (3)   The apparent extent of the damage or injury sustained;
      (4)   A specific and detailed statement of how and under what
circumstances the damage or injury occurred;
      (5)   The amount for which each claimants will settle;
      (6)   The actual place of residence of each claimant by street, number,
town and state on the date the claim is presented;
      (7)   In the case of personal injury or death, the names and addresses of
all persons who, according to the knowledge or information of the claimant
witnessed the happening of the injury or and part thereof and the names of the
doctors, if any, to whose care the injured person is committed; and
      (8)   In the case of property damage, the location of the damaged
property at the time the claim was submitted along with the names and addresses
of all persons who witnessed the happening of the damage or any part thereof.
   (B)   No suit of any nature whatsoever shall be instituted or maintained
against the town unless the plaintiff therein shall aver and prove that
previous to the filing of the original petition the plaintiff applied to the
Town Council for redress, satisfaction, compensation or relief, as the case may
be, and that the same was by vote of the Town Council refused.
   (C)   All notices required by this section shall be effectuated by serving
them upon the Town Secretary at the following location: Town Hall, N. Texas
Avenue in the town, and all such notices shall be effective only when actually
received in the office of the person named above.
   (D)   Neither the Mayor, a Town Council member, nor any other officer or
employee of the town shall have the authority to waive any of the provisions of
this section.
   (E)   The written notice required under this section shall be sworn to by
the person claiming the damage or injuries or by someone authorized by him or
her to do so on his or her behalf. Failure to swear to the notice as required
herein shall not render the notice fatally defective, but failure to so verify
the notice may be considered by the Town Council as a factor relating to the
truth of the allegations and to the weight to be given to the allegations
contained therein.
(Ord. 83-24, passed 3-31-1983)
§ 30.03 WRITE-IN CANDIDATES.
   (A)   No write-in vote shall be valid in an election for an office of the
town, unless the person for whom such write-in vote has delivered to the Town
Secretary a written declaration of such person’s write-in candidacy, at least
30 days before the election date. The written declaration must be signed by the
write-in candidate before filing. No write-in candidate who fails to comply
with this section shall be eligible to be elected to such office in such
election.
   (B)   This section does not expressly or impliedly abolish or impair any
other qualifications or requirements, existing or created under any law, for
any person to be a candidate or a write-in candidate, or to hold public office.
(Ord. 91-128, passed 3-19-1991)
§ 30.04 REGIONAL 9-1-1 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS DISTRICT.
   The town authorizes the creation of the Gulf Coast Regional 9-1-1 Emergency
Communications District.
(Res. passed 10-20-2015)
§ 30.05 BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Appointment and term of office. The Town Council hereby creates the
office of Building Official and will appoint an individual to be the Building
Official of the town, to serve at the pleasure of the Town Council.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of Building Official. The duties and
responsibilities of the Building Official of the town shall include, but not
limited to, viz:
      (1)   Administer and implement all acts necessary to carry out the
provisions of Chapter 151 of this code, the flood damage prevention ordinance
of the town; and
      (2)   Do and perform all other acts that may be imposed upon such
building official by ordinance or resolution which are directly related to the
office of Building Official.
   (C)   Compensation and expenses. The Building Official of the town shall
receive such compensation, if any, for services as may hereafter be prescribed
by a majority vote of the Town Council present and voting at any regular or
special meeting and shall be reimbursed for authorized expenditures incurred on
behalf of the town.
   (D)   Bond. The Town Council hereby fixes and prescribes the bond and
security to be given by the Building Official of said town as a bond in the
amount of $1,000 with good and sufficient corporate surety to be approved by
the Mayor of said town, and payable to the town.
(Ord. 83-40, passed 11-8-1983)
§ 30.06 OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Brazosport Facts is hereby designated the official newspaper of the Town
of Holiday Lakes, Texas, and a descriptive caption of all ordinances, stating
in summary the purpose of each ordinance, the penalty for violation thereof, as
well as all notices and other matters required by said sections of said code or
the ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas, to be published shall be
published therein for a length of time and in the manner required by law.
(Ord. 2017-06, passed 5-16-2017; Ord. 2017-11, passed 10-17-2017; Ord. 2018-08,
passed 9-18-2018; Ord. 2019-06, passed 10-15-2019; Ord. 2020-06, passed 9-15-
2020; Ord. 2021-02, passed 1-12-2021; Ord. 2022-02, passed 2-15-2022)
CHAPTER 31: POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
Section
Excessive Force
   
31.001   Enforcement
   
31.002   Violation
Records Management
   
31.015   Definitions of records of the Town of Holiday Lakes
   
31.016   Additional definitions
   
31.017   Records declared public property
   
31.018   Policy
   
31.019   Designation of Records Management Officer
   
31.020   Records management plan to be developed; approval and authority of
plan
   
31.021   Duties of Records Management Officer; state law
   
31.022   Duties and responsibilities of department heads
   
31.023   Records control schedules to be developed; approval; filing with state
   
31.024   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of records
under schedule
   
31.025   Destruction of unscheduled records
Racial Profiling Policy
   
31.040   Policy and purpose
   
31.041   Definitions
   
31.042   Prohibition
   
31.043   Complaint process and public education
   
31.044   Corrective action
   
31.045   Collection of information and annual report when citation issued or
arrest made
   
31.046   Audio and video equipment
   
31.047   Review of video and audio documentation; standards
   
31.048   Collection, compilation, analysis, reporting requirements in absence
of either audio and video equipment or non-funding certification by the
governing body
   
31.049   Peace officer and Police Chief training
Investment Policy
   
31.060   General provisions
   
31.061   Introduction and objectives
   
31.062   Definitions
   
31.063   Delegation and restriction of investment authority
   
31.064   Investment Committee
   
31.065   Acceptable investment instruments
   
31.066   Unacceptable investment instruments
   
31.067   Diversification
   
31.068   Safekeeping
   
31.069   Collateralization
   
31.070   Investment reporting
   
31.071   Prudence and ethical standards
   
31.072   Arbitrage
   
31.073   Depositories
   
31.074   Compliance audits
   
31.075   Annual review
Fraud Policy
   
31.090   Background
   
31.091   Scope of policy
   
31.092   Policy
   
31.093   Actions constituting fraud
   
31.094   Other irregularities
   
31.095   Investigation responsibilities
   
31.096   Confidentiality
   
31.097   Reporting procedures
   
31.098   Termination
Identity Theft Protection Program
   
31.110   Identity theft protection program adopted by reference
EXCESSIVE FORCE
§ 31.001 ENFORCEMENT.
   The town hereby adopts and will enforce this policy prohibiting the use of
excessive force by the law enforcement agencies within its jurisdiction against
any individual engaged in nonviolent civil rights demonstrations. The town also
prohibits the physical barring of any entrance or exit any public facility and
will enforce all applicable state laws regarding same.
(Res. 98-82, passed 9-21-1998)
§ 31.002 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §
31.001 shall be served by the town with written notice stating the nature of
the violation.
   (B)   It is the policy of the town to enforce this subchapter to the full
extent allowed by law.
(Res. 98-82, passed 9-21-1998)
RECORDS MANAGEMENT
§ 31.015 DEFINITIONS OF RECORDS OF THE TOWN OF HOLIDAY LAKES.
   (A)   All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs, sound or
video recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media, or other
information-recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and
regardless of whether public access to it is open or restricted under laws of
the state, that are created or received by the town or any of its officers or
employees pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business, are
declared to be records of the town, and shall be created, maintained, and
disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or procedures
authorized by it and in no other manner.
   (B)   The term record does not include:
      (1)   Extra identical copies of documents created only for convenience,
reference or research by officers or employees of the town;
      (2)   Notes, journals, diaries, and similar documents created by an
officer or employee of the town for that officer or employee’s personal
convenience;
      (3)   Blank forms;
      (4)   Stocks or publications;
      (5)   Library and museum materials acquired solely for the purpose of
reference or display; or
      (6)   Copies of documents in any media format furnished to members of the
public to which they are entitled under Chapter 424, Acts of the 63rd
Legislature, Regular Session, 4973 (Article 6252-17 a, Vernon's Texas Civil
Statutes), or other state or federal law(s).
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.016 ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.
   ESSENTIAL RECORD. Any record of the town, necessary to the resumption or
continuation of its legal operations in an emergency or disaster, to the re-
creation of its legal and financial status, or to the protection and
fulfillment of obligations to the people of the state and to the town.
   PERMANENT RECORD. A document prepared by or under the authority of the
Records Management Officer listing the records maintained by the town, their
retention periods and other records disposition information that the records
management program may require.
   RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE. A document prepared by or under the authority of
the Records Management Officer listing the retention periods and other records
disposition information that the records management program may require.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT. The application of management techniques to the
creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation, and disposal of records
for the purpose of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of record
keeping. The term includes the development of records control schedules, the
management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports,
and correspondence, and the management of micrographic, electronic, and other
records storage systems.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER. The person (position) so designated in §
31.019.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN. The plan developed under §
31.020.
   RETENTION PERIOD. The minimum time that must pass after the creation,
recording, or receipt of a record, or the fulfillment of certain actions
associated with a record before it is eligible for destruction.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.017 RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All records as defined in §
31.015 of this plan are declared to be the property of the town. No officer or
employee of the town has, by virtue of their position, any personal or property
right to such records even though they may have developed or compiled them. The
unauthorized destruction, removal from files, or use of such records is
prohibited.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.018 POLICY.
   It is declared to be the policy of the town to provide for efficient,
economical, and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use, and disposition of all records of this office
through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for the management of
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirements of the Local Government Records Act and accepted records
management practice. This policy shall apply to all employees, agents,
independent contractors, and volunteers of the town.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.019 DESIGNATION OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The Town Secretary and successive holders of said office, shall serve as
Records Management Officer for the town as provided by law and will develop
policies and procedures to ensure that the maintenance, preservation, security,
destruction, electronic storage, and other disposition of the records of this
office are carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Local
Government Records Act. As provided by state law, each successive holder of the
office shall file their name with the Texas State Library and Archives
Commission within 30 days of the initial designation or of taking up the
office, as applicable.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.020 RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL AND AUTHORITY OF
PLAN.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer shall develop a records management plan
for the town, for submission to the Town Council. The plan must contain
policies and procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the efficiency
of record keeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the
municipality, and to properly preserve those records of the municipality that
are of historical value. The plan must be designed to enable the Records
Management Officer to carry out their duties as prescribed by state law and
this ordinance effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the Town Council the records management plan shall be
binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions, bureaus,
boards, committees, or similar entities of the town and records shall be
created, maintained, stored, microfilmed, or disposed of in accordance with the
plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities, or record
keeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department head or
the records in the department head's care for the application of this
subchapter and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used
by the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management program of the town.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.021 DUTIES OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER; STATE LAW.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, the Records
Management Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
   (B)   Plan, formulate, and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards, and procedures;
   (C)   In cooperation with department heads identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each municipal office and department to ensure
maximum availability of the records in order to re-establish operation quickly
and with minimum disruption and expense;
   (D)   Develop procedures to ensure that permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the town;
   (E)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for record
keeping supplies.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.022 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, the Records
Management Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
   (B)   Plan, formulate, and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards, and procedures;
   (C)   In cooperation with department heads identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each municipal office and department to ensure
maximum availability of the records in order to re-establish operation quickly
and with minimum disruption and expense;
   (D)   Develop procedures to ensure that permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the town;
   (E)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for record
keeping supplies.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.023 RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL; FILING WITH
STATE.
   (A)   (1)   The following records control schedules shall be followed;
unless amended schedules are created and approved by Town Council:
         (a)   Schedule GR (Records Common to All Governments);
         (b)   Schedule EL (Elections and Voter Registration);
         (c)   Schedule LC (Municipal Court Records);
         (d)   Schedule PS (Records of Public Safety Agencies);
         (e)   Schedule PW (Records of Public Works and Services);
         (f)   Schedule TX (Records of Property Taxation); and
         (g)   Schedule UT (Records of Utility Services).
      (2)   Any destruction of records of the town will be in accordance with
these schedules and the Local Government Records Act.
   (B)   The Records Management Officer, in cooperation with department heads,
shall prepare records control schedules on a department-by-department basis
listing all records series created or received by the department and the
retention period for each series. Records control schedules shall also contain
such other information regarding the disposition of municipal records as the
records management plan may require.
   (C)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed
by the Records Officer on a regular basis to ensure that it is in compliance
with records retention schedules issued by the state and that it continues to
reflect the record keeping procedures and needs of the department and the
records management program of the town.
   (D)   Before its adoption a records control schedule or amended schedule for
a department must be approved by the department head and the Town Council.
   (E)   Before its adoption a records control schedule must be submitted to
and accepted for filing by the Texas State Library and Archives Commission as
provided by law. If a schedule is not accepted for filing by the Texas State
Library and Archives Commission for filing, the schedule shall be amended to
make it acceptable for filing. The Records Management Officer shall submit the
records control schedules to the Texas State Library and Archives Commission.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.024 IMPLEMENTATION OF RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES; DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS
UNDER SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A records control schedule for a department that has been approved and
adopted under §
31.023 shall be implemented by department heads according to the policies and
procedures of the records management plan.
   (B)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending lawsuit, or
the department head requests in writing to the Records Management Office that
the record be retained for an additional period.
   (C)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records control
schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the Records
Management Officer from City Council.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
§ 31.025 DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the Texas State
Library and Archives Commission an approved destruction authorization request.
(Ord. 94-02, passed 3-29-1994; Ord. 2022-03, passed 3-19-2022)
RACIAL PROFILING POLICY
§ 31.040 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   This racial profiling policy is adopted in compliance with the requirements
of Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 2.131 through 2.136, which prohibits
state peace officers from engaging in racial profiling.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 31.041 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTS CONSTITUTING RACIAL PROFILING. Acts initiating law enforcement action,
such as a traffic stop, a detention, a search, issuance of a citation, or an
arrest based solely upon an individuals race, ethnicity or nation origin or on
the basis of racial or ethnic stereotypes, rather than upon the individuals
behavior, information identifying the individual as having possibly engaged in
criminal activity, or other lawful reasons for the law enforcement action.
   PEDESTRIAN STOP. An interaction between a peace officer and an individual
who is being detained for the purposes of a criminal investigation in which the
individual is not under arrest.
   RACE or ETHNICITY. Of particular descent, including Caucasian, African,
Hispanic, Asian or Native American descent.
   RACIAL PROFILING. A law enforcement-initiated action based on an individuals
race, ethnicity, or national origin rather than on the individuals behavior or
on information identifying the individual as having engaged in criminal
activity. RACIAL PROFILING pertains to persons who are viewed as suspects or
potential suspects of criminal behavior. The term is not relevant as it
pertains to witnesses, complainants, persons needing assistance or other
citizen contacts.
   TRAFFIC STOP. The stopping of a motor vehicle by a peace officer for an
alleged violation of law or ordinance regulating traffic.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 31.042 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Peace officers of the town are strictly prohibited from engaging in
racial profiling. The prohibition against racial profiling does not preclude
the use of race, ethnicity or national origin as factors in a detention
decision by a peace officer.
   (B)   Race, ethnicity or national origin may be legitimate factors in such a
decision when used as part of a description of a suspect or witness for whom a
peace officer is searching.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 31.043 COMPLAINT PROCESS AND PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   (A)   Any person who believes that a peace office employed by the town has
engaged in racial profiling with respect to that person may file a complaint
with the town, and no person shall be discouraged, intimidated or coerced from
filing such a complaint, or be discriminated against because they have filed
such a complaint.
   (B)   The town shall accept and investigate citizen complaints alleging
racial profiling by its peace officers. Such complaints shall be in writing, or
the town employee, officer or official receiving the complaint should reduce
the same to writing, and should include the time, place and details of the
incident of alleged racial profiling, identification or description of the
peace officer or officers involved, and the identity and manner of contacting
the complainant.
   (C)   Any peace officer, town employee or town official who receives a
citizen complaint alleging racial profiling shall forward the complaint to the
Mayor within 12 hours of receipt of the complaint. Receipt of each complaint
shall be acknowledged to the complainant in writing. All such complaints shall
be reviewed and investigated by the Mayor within a reasonable period of time,
and the results of the Mayors review and investigation shall be filed with the
Town Secretary and with the complainant.
   (D)   In investigating a complaint alleging racial profiling, the Mayor
shall seek to determine if the officer who is subject of the complaint has
engaged in a pattern of racial profiling that included multiple acts
constituting racial profiling for which there is no reasonable, credible
explanation based on established police and law enforcement procedures. A
single act constituting racial profiling may not be considered a pattern of
racial profiling, and shall not be grounds for corrective action.
   (E)   In the event that a complaint of racial profiling filed by an
individual involves an occurrence that was recorded on audio or video, the
Mayor shall, upon commencement of the investigation of the complaint and upon
written request of the officer, promptly provide a copy of the recording to the
peace officer that is the subject of the complaint.
   (F)   The Police Department of the town shall provide education to the
public concerning the racial profiling complaint process. A summary of the
public education efforts made during the preceding year shall be included with
the annual report filed with the governing body of the town under §
31.045.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 31.044 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Any peace officer who is found, after investigation, to have engaged in a
pattern of racial profiling in violation of this policy shall be subject to
corrective action, which may include reprimand: diversity, sensitivity or other
appropriate training or counseling: paid or unpaid suspension: termination of
employment, or other appropriate action as determined by the Mayor and Town
Council.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 31.045 COLLECTION OF INFORMATION AND ANNUAL REPORT WHEN CITATION ISSUED OR
ARREST MADE.
   (A)   For each traffic stop in which a citation is issued and for each
arrest resulting from such traffic stops, a peace officer involved in the stop
shall collect information identifying the race or ethnicity of the person
detained, stating whether a search was conducted, and if a search was
conducted, whether the person detained consented to the search.
   (B)   The information collected shall be compiled in an annual report
covering the period January 1 through December 31 of each year, and shall be
submitted to the governing body of the town no later than March 1 of the
following year. The annual report shall not include identifying information
about any peace officer involved in a stop or arrest.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 31.046 AUDIO AND VIDEO EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Police Chief and/or Mayor of the town shall, immediately upon
enactment of this policy, commence examination of the feasibility of installing
video camera equipment and transmitter-activated equipment in each motor
vehicle regularly used to make traffic stops, and shall report to the governing
body of the town, on the findings of such examination no later than six months
following enactment of this policy. The report shall include funding options
available to the town, including any funding available through the DPS.
   (B)   In the event that the findings of such examination support the
installation of such equipment, the governing body shall consider and take
action on installing the equipment, applying for funding to secure and install
such equipment, or such other action as the governing body considers
appropriate. In the event the examination does not support installing such
equipment, the Mayor of the town shall periodically update the governing body
on such feasibility.
   (C)   In the event that the governing body determines that funds are needed
in order to install the equipment, it shall pass a resolution certifying that
fact to the DPS. On receipt of either sufficient funds or video and audio
equipment, the governing body shall install video and transmitter-activated
equipment in each motor vehicle regularly used to make traffic stops, and shall
install transmitter-activated equipment on each motorcycle regularly used to
make traffic stops, and the governing body shall pass a resolution certifying
to the Department of Public Safety that such equipment has been installed and
is being used to record each traffic and pedestrian stop made by a peace
officer employed by the town that is capable of being recorded by video and
audio or audio equipment, as appropriate.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 31.047 REVIEW OF VIDEO AND AUDIO DOCUMENTATION; STANDARDS.
   (A)   In the event that audio and video equipment is installed, each audio
and video recording shall be retained for a minimum period of 90 days unless a
complaint is filed alleging that a peace officer of the town has engaged in
racial profiling with respect to a traffic or pedestrian stop, in which case
the recording shall be retained until final disposition of the complaint.
   (B)   In conjunction with preparation of the annual report required under §
31.045, the Police Chief and/or Mayor shall periodically conduct reviews of a
randomly selected sampling of video and audio recordings made recently by peace
officers employed by the town to determine if patterns of racial profiling
exist. In reviewing audio and video recordings, the Police Chief and/or Mayor
shall seek to determine if the officer who is involved therein has engaged in a
pattern of racial profiling for which there is no reasonable, credible
explanation based on established police and law enforcement procedures.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 31.048 COLLECTION, COMPILATION, ANALYSIS, REPORTING REQUIREMENTS IN ABSENCE
OF EITHER AUDIO AND VIDEO EQUIPMENT OR NON-FUNDING CERTIFICATION BY THE
GOVERNING BODY.
   (A)   In addition to the annual report required when citations are issued
and arrests made, and so long as the town has not equipped all motor vehicles
and motorcycles regularly used to make traffic and pedestrian stops with audio
and video equipment, as applicable, and so long as the town has not or is not
able to certify to the Department of Public Safety that it needs funds for such
audio and video equipment but has not received such funds, then each peace
officer of the town shall make the following report for each traffic and
pedestrian stop:
      (1)   A physical description of each person detained as a result of the
stop, including:
         (a)   The person’s gender; and
         (b)   The persons race or ethnicity, as stated by the person, or if
the person does not state the persons race or ethnicity, as determined by the
officer to the best of his or her ability.
      (2)   The traffic law or ordinances alleged to have been violated or the
suspected offense;
      (3)   Whether the officer conducted a search as a result of the stop,
and, if so, whether the person detained consented to the search;
      (4)   Whether any contraband was discovered in the course of the search
and the type of contraband discovered;
      (5)   Whether probable cause to search existed and the facts supporting
the existence of that probable cause;
      (6)   Whether the officer made an arrest as a result of the stop or the
search, including a statement of the offense charged;
      (7)   The street address or approximate location of the stop; and
      (8)   Whether the officer issued a warning or a citation as a result of
the stop, including a description of the warning or a statement of the
violation charged.
   (B)   The information in each report shall be analyzed and compiled in a
report that covers the period January 1 through December 31 of each year, and
shall be submitted to the governing body of the town no later than March 1 of
the following year. Each report shall include:
      (1)   A comparative analysis of the information compiled by each officer
under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) above to:
         (a)   Determine the prevalence of racial profiling by peace officers
employed by the town; and
         (b)   Examine the disposition of traffic and pedestrian stops made by
officers employed by the town, including searchers resulting from such stops.
      (2)   Information relating to each complaint filed with the town alleging
that a peace officer employed by the town has engaged in racial profiling.
   (C)   The report required by this section may not include identifying
information about a peace officer who makes a traffic or pedestrian stop or
about an individual who is stopped or arrested by an officer.
   (D)   The compilation of information, analysis and report required by this
section shall not be required for any calendar year during which:
      (1)   The town has equipped all motor vehicles and motorcycles regularly
used to make traffic and pedestrian stops with audio and video equipment, and
each traffic and pedestrian stop made by a peace officer employed by the town
that is capable of being recorded by video and audio or audio equipment, as
appropriate, has been so recorded; or
      (2)   The town has certified to the Department of Public Safety that it
needs funds for such audio and video equipment, as described in §
31.046(C), but has not received such funds.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
§ 31.049 PEACE OFFICER AND POLICE CHIEF TRAINING.
   (A)   (1)   Each peace officer employed by the town shall complete the
comprehensive education and training program on racial profiling established by
the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement(TCOLE) not later than the second
anniversary of the date the officer was licensed on the date the officer
applies for an intermediate proficiency certificate, whichever date is earlier.
      (2)   A person who on September 1, 2001, held a non-TCOLE intermediate
proficiency certificate, or who had held a peace officer license issued by non-
TCOLE for a least two years, shall complete a TCOLE training and education
program on racial profiling not later than September 1, 2003.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall, in completing the training required by Tex.
Education Code, § 96.641, complete the program on racial profiling established
by the Bill Blackwood Law Enforcement Management Institute of the state.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 2-18-2002)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 31.060 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The Town Council formally adopts a written investment policy as set
out below. The policy may be amended from time to time as deemed appropriate
and necessary by the Director of Finance and the Town Council.
   (B)   The Town Council designates the Mayor as the Director of Finance and
the Mayor Pro Tem as an Investment Officer. One or more Investment Officers may
be appointed as deemed appropriate and necessary by said Director of Finance.
   (C)   The Town Council wishes to have all available funds invested, to the
maximum extent possible, at the highest rates obtainable at the time of
investment in conformance with the legal and administrative guidelines outlined
in the investment policy. The primary objectives are preservation of capital,
safety of principal and security of investments; maintenance of sufficient
liquidity to meet operating needs; diversification of investments to avoid
unreasonable or avoidable risks; and maximization of return of the portfolio.
   (D)   State and local public laws govern the investment process for town
funds. Laws cannot ensure that public officials manage public funds in a
disciplined and prudent manner. The actions of public officials responsible for
investing public funds must be guided by knowledge, skills, systems, policies,
procedures and confidence that can be described only as professional
discipline.
   (E)   Effective cash management is recognized as essential to good fiscal
management. An aggressive cash management and investment policy will be
pursued. To that end, investment interest will be used as a viable and material
revenue source for all operating and capital funds. Earnings from investments
will be used in a manner that will best serve the interest of the town.
   (F)   The town’s portfolio shall be designed and managed in a manner
responsive to the public trust and consistent with state and local law.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.061 INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES.
The town is required by the Public Funds Investment Act (Tex. Gov’t Code,
Chapter 2256) to adopt a formal written investment policy. This policy sets
forth the investment objectives of the town.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.062 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOND PROCEEDS. The proceeds from the sale of bonds, notes and other
obligations issued by the town and reserves and funds maintained by the town
for debt service purposes.
   BOOK VALUE. The original acquisition cost of an investment plus or minus the
accrued amortization or accretion.
   DEBT SERVICE FUNDS. The funds which by ordinance or law must be accumulated
and are restricted to the payment of debt.
   FUNDS. Public funds in the custody of the town that the town has the
authority to invest.
   INVESTMENT. An individual security or participation in an investment pool or
qualified mutual fund.
   INVESTMENT POOL. An entity created under Public Funds Investment Act (Tex.
Gov’t Code, Chapter 2256) to invest public funds jointly on behalf of the
entities that participate in the pool and whose investment objectives in order
of priority are:
      (1)   Preservation and safety of principal;
      (2)   Liquidity; and
      (3)   Yield.
   MARKET VALUE. The face or par value of an investment multiplied by the price
quoted on the valuation date.
   POOLED FUND GROUP. An internally created fund of the town in which one or
more institutional accounts (accounting funds) are invested.
   RESERVE FUNDS. The funds which by ordinance or law must be accumulated and
are restricted to the payment of debt in the event debt service funds are
insufficient to meet debt service obligations.
   SEPARATELY INVESTED ASSET. An account or fund (accounting fund) of the town
that is not invested in a pooled fund group.
   TOWN. The Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.063 DELEGATION AND RESTRICTION OF INVESTMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This investment policy and the outlining investment practices and
authorities is compiled in accordance with the Public Funds Investment Act
(Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 2256), which requires the adoption of rules governing
investment of funds and the designation of an investment officer.
   (B)   The Director of Finance will serve as the senior investment officer.
The Director may, when necessary, designate additional investment officers.
Responsibility and authority for daily investment transactions and cash
management reside with the Director of Finance. The Director of Finance is also
responsible for considering the quality and capability of staff involved in
investment management and procedures. The Director of Finance will insure that
staff involved in the investment function comply with all training requirements
established by the Public Funds Investment Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 2256).
All participants in the investment process shall seek to act responsibly as
custodians of public trust.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.064 INVESTMENT COMMITTEE.
   There shall be established an Investment Committee to approve the investment
of funds and investment maturities, subject to a favorable vote of Town Council
present and voting. Members of this Committee should include the Director of
Finance, as Chairperson, and two additional members. The Committee may appoint
additional members as deemed appropriate. The Committee shall meet at the
beginning of each quarter to identify strategies for funds to be invested.
Minutes of these meetings will be prepared and filed with the Town Secretary’s
office, along with copies to the Town Council.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.065 ACCEPTABLE INVESTMENT INSTRUMENTS.
   (A)   Acceptable investment instruments:
      (1)   Obligations of the United States or its agencies and
instrumentalities;
      (2)   Direct obligations of the state or its agencies;
      (3)   Other obligations, the principal of and interest on which are
unconditionally guaranteed or insured by, or backed by the full faith and
credit of the state or the United States or their respective agencies and
instrumentalities;
      (4)   Certificates of deposit issued by state and national banks
domiciled in the state and collateralized or fully insured by FDIC or U.S.
government securities;
      (5)   Direct repurchase agreements with primary security dealer having a
defined termination date, and secured by U.S. government or federal agency
securities, provided that the ownership of collateral for the repurchase
agreement is transferred to the town, and deposited with the town’s safekeeping
agent for the duration of the contract and a signed master repurchase agreement
has been executed with the counterparty; and
      (6)   SEC-registered, no-load money market mutual funds with a dollar-
weighted average portfolio maturity of 90 days or less whose assets consist
exclusively of U.S. government securities and whose investment objectives
include seeking to maintain a stable net asset value of $1 per share.
Investment in mutual funds shall be limited to a maximum often percent of the
town’s operating funds.
   (B)   The Public Funds Investment Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 2256)
authorizes municipalities and other political subdivisions of the state to
invest their public funds jointly through investment pools that complies with
the requirements of the Public Funds Investment Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter
2256).
      (1)   A decision to participate in an investment pool requires a
Participation or Interlocal Agreement to be executed with the State or
Interlocal Authority for the investment pool.
      (2)   Participation in these investment pools is approved subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   Execution of a participation or interlocal agreement;
         (b)   The investment pool maintains a stable asset value as defined in
the Public Funds Investment Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 2256);
         (c)   The investment pool maintains an AAA rating by one of the rating
agencies;
         (d)   The investment pool’s maximum average dollar weighted maturity
does not exceed 90 days; and
         (e)   The investment pool’s continued compliance with the remaining
provisions of the Public Funds Investment Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 2256).
   (C)   The Investment Officers will, in general, maintain a passive
investment portfolio in which securities will be purchased with the intent to
own the securities until maturity. Safety of principal with due consideration
of liquidity is the foremost objective of this investment policy. Each
investment transaction shall seek to avoid capital losses from security
defaults or erosion of market value.
   (D)   The town will practice competitive bidding orally, by telephone,
electronically or in any combination of these methods when purchasing an
investment to help strengthen the investment process. All investments, other
than the placement of funds in investment pools, will be competitively bid
placed with vendors guaranteeing the highest rate of return. The town reserves
the right to reject the most financially favorable bid if it is potentially
disruptive to its investment strategy.
   (E)   When appropriate, actual risk of default shall be minimized by
adequate collateralization. Market risk shall be minimized by diversification.
Diversification shall be directed towards investment instruments, varying
maturities, multiple investment pools and securities dealers.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.066 UNACCEPTABLE INVESTMENT INSTRUMENTS.
   The following securities, although authorized by the Public Funds Investment
Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 2256), are not eligible investments for the town:
   (A)   Collateralized mortgage obligations;
   (B)   Commercial paper;
   (C)   Banker’s acceptances;
   (D)   Reverse repurchase agreements;
   (E)   No-load mutual funds other than no-load money market mutual funds;
   (F)   Guaranteed investment contracts; and
   (G)   Share certificates of qualifying credit unions.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.067 DIVERSIFICATION.
   (A)   Securities dealers, investment consultants and banks.
      (1)   Competitive bidding of all investments among securities dealers
will assure that the town receives the highest yield on its investments. The
town shall seek to conduct its investment transactions with several competing,
reputable investment securities dealers and brokers to protect principal while
achieving full advantage of the market.
      (2)   It is the policy of the town to purchase securities only from those
institutions on the town’s approved list of broker/dealers, investment
consultants, and banks. All securities dealers must be registered with and
certified by the Texas State Securities Commission, National Association of
Security Dealers (NASD) and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and must
execute the Securities Broker/Dealer Certification.
      (3)   The Director of Finance shall evaluate the soundness of financial
institutions, broker/dealers and consultants to the extent he/she considers
necessary. Investigation may include review of rating agency reports, review of
call reports and analysis of management, profitability, capitalization and
asset quality. Financial institutions, broker/dealers and consultants with whom
the town wishes to conduct business shall provide the financial data requested
by the town.
      (4)   The Director of Finance shall review the information and decide on
the soundness of a financial institution, broker/dealer or consultant before
adding the institution to the list of those with whom the town does business.
      (5)   An institution must be approved by the Director of Finance, and
confirmed by the Town Council, and added to the approved list before any
business may be transacted with the town. The Director of Finance shall also be
able to limit the number of authorized securities dealers/banks/consultants
doing business with the town as required.
      (6)   All banks will be federal reserve members approved by the Director
of Finance and the Town Council. No investment will be placed with savings and
loan institutions.
      (7)   Repurchase agreements will be done only with primary dealers.
      (8)   The master repurchase agreement of the Public Securities
Association (PSA) shall be executed between the town and any primary dealer
with which the town transacts repurchase agreements.
      (9)   Regardless of reporting status, all securities purchased shall
require same day delivery, on settlement date, to the town’s safekeeping agent
on a delivery versus payment (DVP) basis. By doing so, town funds are not
released until the town has received, through the Federal Reserve wire, the
securities purchased.
   (B)   Investment type. Market risk shall be minimized by diversification of
investment types. To allow efficient and effective placement of proceeds from
bond sales, the limit on repurchase agreements may be exceeded for a maximum of
five days following the receipt of bond proceeds.
   (C)   Investment strategies. The town maintains the following portfolios
which will utilize the specific investment strategy considerations designed to
address the unique characteristics of the pooled fund groups or separate
investment assets represented in the portfolios.
      (1)   Debt service funds.
         (a)   The town will maintain one debt service fund for the municipal
building bi-annual payments. Additional debt service funds will be established
as required by ordinance or law. These funds will be operated as separately
invested assets.
         (b)   Investment strategies for debt service funds shall have as the
primary objective the assurance of investment liquidity adequate to cover the
debt service obligation on the required payment date.
      (2)   Reserve funds. The town will maintain one reserve fund per their
contractual agreement with the Community Resource Group, Inc. Additional
reserve funds will be established as required by ordinance or law. Investment
of reserve funds are controlled by their ordinance, resolution or indenture,
and federal and state law. Reserve funds will be invested using a more
conservative approach than the current standard investment strategy when
arbitrage rebate rules require refunding excess earnings. All excess earnings
received will be segregated to allow a proper determination of interest income
to be used in the arbitrage calculation.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.068 SAFEKEEPING.
   (A)   The laws of the state and prudent treasury management require that all
purchased securities shall be held in safekeeping by either a town account in a
third party financial institution, or the town’s safekeeping account in its
designated depository bank, or in a Federal Reserve Bank. The safekeeping
requirement does not apply to certificates of deposit that are FDIC insured.
   (B)   Transfers of securities in safekeeping shall be processed with written
confirmations. The confirmations will be used for documentation and retention
purposes. The Director of Finance must approve release of collateral prior to
its removal from the safekeeping account.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.069 COLLATERALIZATION.
   (A)   Consistent with the requirements of state law, the town requires all
bank deposits to be federally insured or collateralized with securities
approved for investment under §
31.065. Financial institutions serving as town depositories will be required to
sign a depository agreement with the town and the town’s safekeeping agent. The
safekeeping portion of the agreement shall define the town’s rights to the
collateral in case of default, bankruptcy or closing and shall establish a
perfected security interest in compliance with federal and state regulations.
   (B)   The town considers repurchase agreements as simultaneous sales and
purchases of securities rather than collateralized loans; however, securities
underlying repurchase agreements are referred to as “collateral” for the
purpose of this policy.
   (C)   Bank demand deposits and certificates of deposit plus accrued interest
up to $100,000 per bank do not need to be collateralized pursuant to this
policy as long as FDIC insurance is provided.
   (D)   The Public Funds Investment Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 2256)
provides that the town may invest in certificates of deposit that are fully
guaranteed by the FDIC.
   (E)   Acceptable forms of collateral are limited to investments authorized
in §
31.065.
   (F)   Collateral shall be audited at least annually by the town’s
independent audit firm, and may be audited by the town at any time during
normal business hours of the safekeeping party.
   (G)   Under state law, Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Chapter 105, substitution and
release of collateral must be approved by the governing body. The town hereby
delegates this responsibility and authority to release and substitute
collateral as deemed necessary and reasonable within the guideline of this
policy to the Director of Finance and the Town Council.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.070 INVESTMENT REPORTING.
   Each quarter, the Director of Finance and investment officers so designated
shall prepare and submit to the Town Council a written report of all investment
transactions. The report will include a detailed description of the investment
position of the town at the end of the quarter; a summary statement of each
pooled fund group that takes a beginning market value for the quarter,
additions and changes to the market value during the period, and ending market
value for the period; state the book value and market value of each separately
invested asset at the beginning and end of the quarter by the type of asset and
fund type invested; state the maturity date of each separately invested asset
that has a maturity date; state the fund or pooled group fund for which each
individual asset was acquired; demonstrate compliance with the investment
strategy established in this policy and by the Public Funds Investment Act
(Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 2256). The report should also include computations of
the yield on each fund or pooled group fund. This report must be prepared
jointly and signed by all investment officers of the town.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.071 PRUDENCE AND ETHICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The standard of prudence used by the town, shall be the “prudent
person rule” and shall be applied in the context of managing the overall
portfolio. The prudent person rule is restated below.
   (B)   Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under prevailing
circumstances, that a person of prudence, discretion and intelligence would
exercise in the management of the person’s own affairs, not for speculation,
but for investment, considering the probable safety of capital and the probable
income to be derived. In determining whether an investment officer has
exercised prudence with respect to an investment decision, the determination
shall be made taking into consideration: the investment of all funds, or funds
under the town’s control, over which the officer had responsibility rather than
a consideration as to the prudence of a single investment; and whether the
investment decision is consistent with this investment policy.
   (C)   Investment officers shall notify the Town Council of any conflicts of
interest, as defined in the Public Funds Investment Act (Tex. Gov’t Code,
Chapter 2256), no later than the next regularly scheduled Town Council meeting.
   (D)   It is the town’s policy that the Investment Officers perform their
duties in accordance with the policies and procedures set forth in this manual.
Investment Officers acting in good faith and in accordance with these policies
and procedures shall be relieved of personal liability.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.072 ARBITRAGE.
   (A)   The Tax Reform Act of 1986 (26 U.S.C. §§ 149 et seq.) places
limitations on the town’s yield from investing certain tax-exempt general
obligation and revenue bond proceeds, debt service funds and reserve funds.
These arbitrage rebate provisions require that the town compute earnings on
investments from certain issues of bonds on a periodic basis to determine if a
rebate is required.
   (B)   To determine the town’s arbitrage position, the town is required to
calculate the actual yield earned on the investment of the funds and compare it
to the yield that would have been earned if the funds had been invested at a
rate equal to the yield on the applicable bonds sold by the town. The rebate
provisions state that periodically, not less than every five years, and not
later than sixty days after maturity of the bonds, the town is required to pay
the U.S. Treasury a rebate of any excess earnings. These restrictions require
extreme precision in the monitoring and record-keeping of investments,
particularly in computing yields to ensure compliance. Failure to comply can
dictate that the bonds become taxable, retroactively from the date of issuance.
   (C)   The town’s investment position relative to the arbitrage restrictions
is to continue pursuing the maximum yield on applicable investments while
ensuring the safety of capital and liquidity. It is a fiscally sound position
to continue maximization of yield and to rebate excess earnings, if necessary.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.073 DEPOSITORIES.
   (A)   Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Chapter 105 prescribes procedures for selection
of a town depository designating that both general law and home rule cities are
“authorized to receive applications (as depository) for the custody of town
funds from any banking corporation, association or individual banker doing
business within Brazoria County. Pursuant to Tex. Local Gov’t Code, § 150.014,
municipalities may select one or more depositories and are not required to have
one central depository.
   (B)   The town will, through a request for applications process, designate
one or more banks as its primary depository. This centralization is designed to
maximize investment capabilities and minimize banking costs. The depository
designation does not limit investment activity to one financial institution.
   (C)   If a depository is unsuccessful in meeting any of the town’s
requirements in the banking services contract, the bank shall meet the
requirements within six months or lose the depository contract.
(Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Chapter 105)
   (D)   State law permits a contract period of five years or less. The town’s
contract shall not exceed this five-year contract period.
      (1)   Annual performance reviews of the contract will be conducted by the
Director of Finance. Special banking needs may be contracted for by the town
outside this policy if approved by the Director of Finance and the Town
Council.
      (2)   If a depository does not meet the town’s requirements in the
banking services contract, the bank will be required to meet the requirements
within six months or lose the depository contract.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.074 COMPLIANCE AUDITS.
   The audit firm shall during the regular financial audit for the town,
conduct a compliance audit of the management controls and adherence to
investment policies.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
§ 31.075 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The Director of Finance shall, at a minimum, submit proposed amendments of
this policy to the Town Council annually for its approval.
(Res. 2009-01, passed 3-7-2009)
FRAUD POLICY
§ 31.090 BACKGROUND.
   This fraud policy is established to facilitate the development of controls
that will aid in the detection and prevention of fraud against the town. It is
the intent of the town to promote consistent organizational behavior by
providing guidelines and assigning responsibility for the development of
controls and conduct of investigations.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 31.091 SCOPE OF POLICY.
   This policy applies to irregularities, suspected irregularities, involving
employees as well as consultants, vendors, contractors, outside agencies and/or
any other parties that have a business relationship with the town.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 31.092 POLICY.
   The Mayor and Town Council are responsible for the detection and prevention
of fraud, misappropriations and other irregularities. Fraud is defined as the
intentional, false representation or concealment of a material fact for the
purpose of inducing another to act upon it to his or her injury. The Mayor and
Town Council will be familiar with the types of improprieties that might occur
within his or her area of responsibility, and be alert for any indication of
irregularity.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 31.093 ACTIONS CONSTITUTING FRAUD.
   The terms “defalcation”, “misappropriation” and other fiscal irregularities
refer to, but are not limited to:
   (A)   Any dishonest or fraudulent act;
   (B)   Misappropriation of funds, securities, supplies or other assets;
   (C)   Impropriety in the handling or reporting of money or financial
transactions;
   (D)   Profiteering as a result of insider knowledge of the town’s
activities;
   (E)   Disclosing confidential and proprietary information to outside
parties;
   (F)   Disclosing to other persons securities activities engaged in or
contemplated by town;
   (G)   Accepting or seeking anything of material value from contractors,
vendors or persons providing services/materials to the town;
   (H)   Destruction, removal or inappropriate use of records, furniture,
fixtures and equipment; and/or
   (I)   Any similar or related irregularity.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 31.094 OTHER IRREGULARITIES.
   Irregularities concerning an employee’s moral, ethical or behavioral conduct
should be resolved by departmental management. If there is any question as to
whether an action constitutes fraud, contact the Mayor for guidance.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 31.095 INVESTIGATION RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Mayor has the primary responsibility for the investigation of all
suspected fraudulent acts as defined in this policy. If the investigation
substantiates that fraudulent activities have occurred, the Mayor will issue
reports to the Town Council and designated personnel.
   (B)   Decisions to prosecute or refer the examination results to the
appropriate law enforcement and/or regulatory agencies for independent
investigation will be made in conjunction with legal counsel. The Town Council
will make the final decisions on disposition of the case.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 31.096 CONFIDENTIALITY.
   (A)   The Mayor will treat all information received confidentially. Any
employee who suspects dishonest or fraudulent activity will notify the Mayor
immediately, and should not attempt to personally conduct investigations or
interviews/interrogations related to any suspected fraudulent act.
   (B)   Investigation results will not be disclosed or discussed with anyone
other than those who have a legitimate need to know. This is important in order
to avoid damaging the reputations of persons suspected but subsequently found
innocent of wrongful conduct and to protect the town from potential civil
liability.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 31.097 REPORTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Extreme care must be taken in the investigation of suspected
improprieties or irregularities so as to avoid mistaken accusations or alerting
suspected individuals that an investigation is under way.
   (B)   An employee who discovers or suspects fraudulent activity will contact
the Mayor immediately. The employee or other complainant may remain anonymous.
All inquiries concerning the activity under investigation from the suspected
individual, his or her attorney or representative, or any other inquirer should
be directed to the Mayor. No information concerning the status of an
investigation will be given out. The proper response to any inquiries is: “I am
not at liberty to discuss this matter”. Under no circumstances should any
reference be made to “the allegation”, “the crime”, “the fraud”, “the forgery”,
“the misappropriation” or any other specific reference.
   (C)   The reporting individual should be informed of the following:
      (1)   Do not contact the suspected individual in an effort to determine
facts or demand restitution; and
      (2)   Do not discuss the case, facts, suspicions or allegations with
anyone unless specifically asked to do so by the Mayor and/or Town Council.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
§ 31.098 TERMINATION.
   If an investigation results in a recommendation to terminate an individual,
the recommendation will be reviewed for approval by the Town Council.
(Ord. passed 12-7-2010)
IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION PROGRAM
§ 31.110 IDENTITY THEFT PROTECTION PROGRAM ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s identity theft prevention program is hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 3-15-2016)
CHAPTER 32: MAYOR, TOWN COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Council members elected for designated places
   
32.02   Length of terms of office; Council members
Meetings and Procedural Provisions
   
32.15   Short title
   
32.16   Open Meetings Act
   
32.17   Regular meetings
   
32.18   Special and emergency meetings
   
32.19   Meeting place
   
32.20   Contents of agenda
   
32.21   Limitation of comments and presentation of visitors
   
32.22   Method of exercising powers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 COUNCIL MEMBERS ELECTED FOR DESIGNATED PLACES.
   (A)   Adoption of state law. The provisions of Tex. Local Gov’t Code,
Chapter 21, are hereby adopted by the Town Council, and the Council members of
said town shall hereafter be elected by the place system.
   (B)   Procedure. As soon as possible after the enactment of this section,
the Town Council shall assign to the offices of Council members then held by
the incumbent members thereof the place numbers “Council Member, Place No. 1”,
“Council Member, Place No. 2”, “Council Member, Place No. 3”, “Council Member,
Place No. 4” and “Council Member , Place No. 5”. The Council members
assignments for Council Member, Place No. 1 and Council Member, Place No. 2
shall be determined by lot. Thereafter, as the terms of the incumbent Council
members expire, any candidate for the office of Council members in any town
election in said town shall file his or her application for a specific place on
the Town Council and, in such election, the ballot shall show each office of
Council members as a separate office by place number, with the name of each
candidate printed thereon under the specific office for which such person is a
candidate.
(Ord. 82-4, passed 1-27-1982)
§ 32.02 LENGTH OF TERMS OF OFFICE; COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Terms of office are two years, with the Mayor, Place 1 and Place 2 elected
at the annual general election in even years and Place 3, Place 4 and Place 5
elected at the annual general election in odd years.
(Ord. 82-4, passed 1-27-1982; Res. 98-79, passed 3-16-1998)
MEETINGS AND PROCEDURAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “The Procedural
Ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 2-19-2007)
§ 32.16 OPEN MEETINGS ACT.
   (A)   The Texas Open Meetings Act (Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 551) shall be
followed at all meetings and are hereby adopted; provided, however this section
shall not apply when a different method of proceeding is required by ordinance
of said town, or the Constitution and laws of the state or the United States of
America.
   (B)   Robert’s Rules of Order shall be used as a guideline, where
applicable, for Town Council meetings.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 2-19-2007)
§ 32.17 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   All regular meetings of the Town Council shall have one regular meeting per
month, to be held on the third Tuesday of each month, beginning July 17, 2007.
All regular meetings shall begin at 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 2-19-2007; Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 32.18 SPECIAL AND EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   (A)   An emergency meeting is one held in case of emergency or urgent public
necessity where only two hours notice thereof is required by the Texas Open
Meeting Act, codified as Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat., Art. 6252-17.
   (B)   A special meeting is any meeting other than an Emergency meeting or a
Regular meeting. An emergency or special meeting may be called by the Mayor or
four of the Council members.
   (C)   The person or persons calling such meeting shall be responsible for
complying with the notice provisions of the Texas Open Meetings Act (Tex. Gov’t
Code, Chapter 551).
   (D)   The time at which the meeting shall begin must be the time specified
in such notice.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 2-19-2007)
§ 32.19 MEETING PLACE.
   All meetings of the Town Council shall be held at Town Hall, located at 195
North Texas Avenue, within the corporate limits of said town, unless otherwise
designated in the posted notice of regular, special or emergency meetings.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 2-19-2007)
§ 32.20 CONTENTS OF AGENDA.
   The agenda of every regular, special and emergency meeting of the Town
Council shall comply with the requirements of said Texas Open Meeting Act and
shall include, but is not limited to, the following items, to-wit:
   (A)   Invocation, if desired;
   (B)   Call meeting to order;
   (C)   Roll call of members and other officers;
   (D)   Reading and approval of minutes of previous meeting;
   (E)   Executive session, if needed;
   (F)   Open session;
   (G)   New business (items needing Council attention);
   (H)   Visitors business (if properly requested and on the agenda);
   (I)   Routine business and reports; and
   (J)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 2-19-2007)
§ 32.21 LIMITATION OF COMMENTS AND PRESENTATION OF VISITORS.
   Any visitor who wishes to address the Town Council must turn in a request
one week in advance of the meeting. Visitors are limited to three minutes
unless time is extended by an affirmative vote of Council. Items discussed must
be specific.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 2-19-2007)
§ 32.22 METHOD OF EXERCISING POWERS.
   All powers of the Town Council shall be exercised by motion, duly seconded
and entered into the minutes of the meeting, except where an ordinance or
formal written resolution is required by ordinance of said town or the
Constitution and laws of the state or the United States of America. Any motion,
resolution or ordinance shall be considered adopted upon receiving the
affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Town Council present and
voting unless a larger number of affirmative votes is required by any ordinance
of said town or laws of the state.
(Ord. 2007-004, passed 2-19-2007)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL COURT
Section
   
33.01   Short title
   
33.02   Town Secretary as ex officio Clerk
   
33.03   Municipal Court seal
   
33.04   Appointment, term of office and compensation of regular and Alternate
Judge
   
33.05   Appointment of Municipal Judge and setting of bond
   
33.06   Adoption of rules of practice and procedure relating to justice courts
   
33.07   Judicial notice of ordinances and corporate limits
   
33.08   Prima facie proof of existence of speed limits, speed limit signs and
traffic-control devices and signals
   
33.09   Judgment
   
33.10   Commitment and length of confinement
   
33.11   Disposition of fines
   
33.12   Appearance in Municipal Court; violation of promise to appear
   
33.13   Pay of jurors
   
33.14   Monthly reports to Town Council
   
33.15   Collection fee
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Municipal Court
Ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.02 TOWN SECRETARY AS EX OFFICIO CLERK.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat., Art. 1200, it is hereby
provided that the Town Secretary shall be ex officio Clerk of the Municipal
Court of said town.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.03 MUNICIPAL COURT SEAL.
   As required by Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 45.012, the Mayor of
the town shall procure a seal for the Municipal Court of said town, which shall
have a star of five points in the center and the words “Municipal Court of the
Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”, and he or she is hereby authorized to purchase
the same out of the general funds of said town.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.04 APPOINTMENT, TERM OF OFFICE AND COMPENSATION OF REGULAR AND ALTERNATE
JUDGE.
   (A)   As provided in Tex. Gov’t Code, § 29.004, the Town Council hereby
ordains that the Municipal Court of said town shall be presided over by a
regular Municipal Judge to be appointed as provided in said Tex. Gov’t Code, §
29.004 and this section.
      (1)   Such Judge shall posses the qualifications of an elector of state,
and the Judge first appointed hereunder shall hold his or her term of office
corresponding to the unexpired term of the Mayor of said town and every two
years thereafter a regular judge for said Court shall be appointed for a term
of two years. Any person appointed Judge of the Municipal Court of said town
under the provision of this chapter shall hold his or her office for the term
appointed and until his or her successor has been appointed and qualified. To
remove the appointed Judge during his or her term requires a two- thirds vote
of Council as described in Tex. Local Gov’t Code, § 22.077.
      (2)   The Judge of said Court shall receive such compensation as may be
fixed from time to time by the vote of a majority of the Town Council present
and voting at any regular or special meeting thereof and, in addition, shall be
reimbursed for authorized expenditures incurred on behalf of said town. At the
time any person is appointed as the regular Judge of the Municipal Court of the
town, his or her bond and security shall be prescribed by the Town Council.
   (B)   As permitted by Tex. Gov’t Code, § 29.006, upon the affirmative vote
of a majority of the members of the Town Council present and voting at any
regular of special meeting thereof, any person possessing the qualifications of
an elector of said town may be appointed as Alternate Municipal Judge to serve
as such at the pleasure of the Town Council.
      (1)   At the time any person is appointed Alternate Municipal Judge of
said town his or her bond and security shall be prescribed by the Town Council.
      (2)   When the regular Judge of the Municipal Court of said town is
temporarily unable to act as such for any reason, the person appointed
Alternate Judge of the Municipal Court of the town shall sit for said regular
Judge and shall have all powers and duties of the office and shall receive the
same compensation as is payable to such regular Judge while such person is so
acting.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.05 APPOINTMENT OF MUNICIPAL JUDGE AND SETTING OF BOND.
   The Town Council hereby appoints a Municipal Court Judge of said town as
provided in §
33.04(A). His or her bond to secure the performance of his or her duties is set
at $1,000 with good and sufficient corporate surety to be approved by the Mayor
of the town and payable to said town.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.06 ADOPTION OF RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE RELATING TO JUSTICE COURTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter or the laws of the state, rules
of practice and procedures prescribed by the laws of the state for the trial of
criminal cases in the Justice of the Peace Courts shall be the rules of
practice and procedure before the Municipal Court of the town.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.07 JUDICIAL NOTICE OF ORDINANCES AND CORPORATE LIMITS.
   The Municipal Court of the town shall take judicial notice of all ordinances
of said town and judicial notice of the corporate limits of said town.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.08 PRIMA FACIE PROOF OF EXISTENCE OF SPEED LIMITS, SPEED LIMIT SIGNS AND
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES AND SIGNALS.
   In any action tried in the Municipal Court of the town, proof of the
existence of any speed limit sign on or along-side any public highway, street
or road in the town, shall constitute prima facie proof of all facts necessary
to establish the proper and lawful designation of the speed limit thereon
stated as such place and the proper and lawful installation of such sign by
competent authority. In any action tried in the Municipal Court of said town,
proof of the existence of any traffic-control device or any traffic- control
signal, as those terms are defined in § 18 of the Uniform Act Regulating
Traffic on Highway of the state, codified as Tex. Transportation Code, §
545.352, on or alongside any public highway, street or road in said town shall
constitute prima facie proof of all facts necessary to establish the proper and
lawful installation of such device or signal at such place by competent
authority; provided, however, the prima facie proof provided for any be
rebutted by any part to such action.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.09 JUDGMENT.
   The judgment, in the cases of conviction in all actions before the Municipal
Court of the town, shall be that the state, for the use and benefit of the
town, recover of the defendant the fines assessed, all costs of court and the
state tax levied thereon, and that the defendant remain in custody of the
Police Department of said town until such fine is paid or otherwise discharged
by law; and that execution issue to collect the same.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.10 COMMITMENT AND LENGTH OF CONFINEMENT.
   All persons committed to the custody of the Police Department of the town by
the Judge of the Municipal Court of said town, shall be kept by him or her at
the county jail. For this purpose, the Police Department of said town is
authorized to incur indebtedness on the part of said town to the Sheriff of the
county. Any defendant so committed after conviction of failure to pay the fine,
costs and fees against him or her may be discharged after he or she has
remained in jail a sufficient length of time to satisfy such fine, costs and
fees at the published rate of the County Court System.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.11 DISPOSITION OF FINES.
   All fines collected by the Municipal Court of the town shall be delivered to
the Town Secretary to be deposited in the General Fund of said town.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.12 APPEARANCE IN MUNICIPAL COURT; VIOLATION OF PROMISE TO APPEAR.
   (A)   When a person is charged with violating any penal ordinance of the
town by any peace officer or code enforcement officer thereof, in lieu of
arresting such person, such officer may prepare in triplicate a written notice
(citation/ticket) directing such person to appear before the Municipal Court of
the town. The notice (citation/ticket) shall include the name and address of
such person, the offense(s) charged, the date, the time, and location the
person shall appear in court and such other matters as the officer deems
appropriate. The time specified in said notice to appear must be ten days after
the date of issuance, unless the person shall demand an earlier hearing. The
place specified in said notice to appear must be the Municipal Court of the
town at the regular meeting location and at the regular meeting time. A copy of
the citation shall be given to the person, a copy shall be retained and the
original provided to the court. Pursuant to Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure,
Chapter 45, all proceeding in said court shall be the same as if a warrant for
such person’s arrest had been issued and returned executed.
   (B)   The procedure prescribed herein and in §
33.99 shall not be exclusive of any other method prescribed by the laws of the
state for the arrest and prosecution of any person for an offense within the
exclusive original jurisdiction of the Municipal Court of the town.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.13 PAY OF JURORS.
   Each juror in a case in Municipal Court of the town is entitled to receive
the sum of $6 for each day or fraction of a day such person serves as a juror
to be paid out of General Fund of the town by the Town Secretary as ex officio
Treasurer on order of the Judge of said Court.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.14 MONTHLY REPORTS TO TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Judge or Clerk of the Municipal Court of the town shall complete a
detailed monthly report. The report shall include the number of citations, type
of citations issued, amount of community service assessed, total fines
collected, and warrants issued for failure to appear, or violate promise to
appear. Citations for ordinance violations shall include the charge(s) and
address found in the violation. This report shall be made available to the Town
Council and Town Secretary prior to start of the Council meeting.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 33.15 COLLECTION FEE.
   In accordance with the Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 103.0031, there
is hereby imposed an additional fee of 30% on all debts and accounts
receivable, i.e., fines, fees, court costs, restitution, and other debts, that
are more than 60 days past due and have been referred to a private firm for
collection.
(Ord. 2018-04, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person in willful violation of a written promise to appear in the
Municipal Court of the town given as provided in §
33.12(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor regardless of the disposition of the
case wherein he or she is charged with the violation set forth in such notice
and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.
   (B)   A written promise to appear in the Municipal Court of the town, under
the provisions of §
33.12(A) may be complied with by an appearance by counsel.
(Ord. 2006-12, passed 5-18-2006)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   General provisions
   
34.02   National Incident Management System (NIMS)
   
34.03   Hazard Mitigation Plan
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Organization. There exists the office of Emergency Management Director
of the town, which shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
      (1)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve
at the pleasure of the Director.
      (2)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the town and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this section. He or she may delegate authority
for execution of these duties to the Coordinator, but ultimate responsibility
for such execution shall remain with the Director.
      (3)   The operational Emergency Management organization of the town shall
consist of the officers and employees of the town so designated by the Director
in the emergency management plan, as well as organized volunteer groups. The
functions and duties of this organization shall be distributed among such
officers and employees in accordance with the terms of the emergency management
plan.
   (B)   Emergency Management Director; powers and duties. The duties and
responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall include the
following:
      (1)   Conduct an on-going survey of actual or potential hazards which
threaten life and property within the town and an on-going program of
identifying and requiring or recommending the implementation of measures which
would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce the impact of such hazards if a
disaster did occur;
      (2)   Supervision of the development and approval of an emergency
management plan for the town, and shall recommend for adoption by the Town
Council all mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of
such plan;
      (3)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster. The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except by or
with the consent of the Town Council. Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publicity and shall be filed promptly with the Town Secretary;
      (4)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations or directives
which are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this section. Such
proclamations, regulations or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the Town Secretary;
      (5)   Direction and control of the operations of the Town Emergency
Management Organization as well as the training of emergency management
personnel;
      (6)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the Emergency Management Organization of the town;
      (7)   Maintenance of liaison(s) with other municipal, county, district,
state, regional or federal emergency management organizations;
      (8)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment or supplies from
any department of the town to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
emergency management plan;
      (9)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements,
in cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local
political subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed
desirable, of an agreement with the county in which said town is located and
with other municipalities within the county, for the county-wide coordination
of emergency management efforts;
      (10)   Supervision of, and final authorization for the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the town;
      (11)   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the Town Attorney,
for use of private property for public shelter and other purposes;
      (12)   Survey of the availability of existing personnel, equipment,
supplies and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for
herein; and
      (13)   Other requirements as specified in Tex. Gov’t Code, § 418.01.
   (C)   Emergency management plan. A comprehensive Emergency Management Plan
shall be developed and maintained in a current state. The plan shall set forth
the form of the organization, establish and designate divisions and functions,
assign responsibilities, tasks, duties and powers, and designate officers and
employees to carry out the provisions of this section. As provided by state
law, the plan shall follow the standards and criteria established by the State
Division of Emergency Management of the state. Insofar as possible, the form of
organization, titles and terminology shall conform to the recommendations of
the State Division of Emergency Management. When approved, it shall be the duty
of all departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the plan
and to maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at
all times. The emergency management plan shall be considered supplementary to
this section and have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
   (D)   Interjurisdictional program. The Mayor is hereby authorized to join
with the County Judge and the mayors of the other cities in said county in the
formation of an Emergency Management Council for the county and shall have the
authority to cooperate in the preparation of a joint emergency management plan
and in the appointment of a joint Emergency Management Coordinator, as well as
all powers necessary to participate in a county-wide program of emergency
management insofar as said program may affect the town.
   (E)   Override. At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and
promulgated pursuant to this section shall be in effect, they shall supersede
and override all existing ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as
the latter may be inconsistent therewith.
   (F)   Liability. This section is an exercise by the town of its governmental
function for the protection of the public peace, health and safety and neither
the town, the agents and representatives of said town, nor any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association or trustee, nor any of
the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with, any order, rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be liable for any damage sustained to persons
as the result of said activity. Any person owning or controlling real estate or
other premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the town a
license of privilege, or otherwise permits the town to inspect, designate and
use the whole or any part or parts of such real estate or premises for the
purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending or practice enemy
attack or natural or man-made disaster shall, together with his or her
successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to, any person on or about such real estate or premises under such
license, privilege or other permission or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person.
   (G)   Commitment of funds. No person shall have the right to expend any
public funds of the town in carrying out any emergency management activity
authorized by this section without prior approval by the Town Council, nor
shall any person have any right to bind the town by contract, agreement or
otherwise without prior and specific approval of the Town Council unless during
a declared disaster. During a declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or
commit public funds of the town when deemed prudent and necessary for the
protection of health, life or property.
   (H)   Offenses.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully obstruct, hinder
or delay any member of the emergency management organization in the enforcement
of any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this section, or to do any act
forbidden by any rule or regulation issued pursuant to the authority contained
in this section.
      (2)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry or
display any emblem, insignia or any other means of identification as a member
of the emergency management organization of the town, unless authority to do so
has been granted to such person by the proper officials.
   (J)   Limitations. This section shall not be construed so as to conflict
with any state or federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule or
regulation.
(Ord. 88-102, passed 12-20-1988) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.02 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS).
   The Town Council adopts the National Incident Management System.
(Ord. 2009-06, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 34.03 HAZARD MITIGATION PLAN.
   The Town Council hereby adopts the H-GAC of Governments-Regional Hazard
Mitigation Plan, and vests the Mayor with the responsibility, authority and
means to: inform all concerned parties of this plan; develop an addendum to
this plan, if such addendum is needed; appoints the current Mayor to assure
that the Plan will be reviewed annually and any need adjustments be presented
to Town Council for consideration; and agrees to take such official action as
may be necessary to carry out the objectives of the Hazard Mitigation Plan.
(Res. 2006-016, passed 6-19-2006)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any unauthorized person who shall operate a siren or other
device so as to simulate a warning signal, or the termination of a warning,
shall be deemed guilty of a violation of §
34.01(H), and shall be subject to the penalties imposed by this division (B).
      (2)   Convictions for violations of the provisions of §
34.01 shall be punishable by fine not to exceed $200.
(Ord. 88-102, passed 12-20-1988)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Short title
   
35.02   Chief of Police, paid police officer and volunteer police officer
   
35.03   Appointment, qualifications and term of volunteer police officers
   
35.04   Appointment, qualification and term of office of Chief of Police
   
35.05   Paid police officers
   
35.06   Manual of rules and procedures
   
35.07   Duties of the Chief of Police and officers
   
35.08   Compensation and expenses of the Chief of Police and paid police
officers
   
35.09   Benefits and expenses of volunteer police officer
   
35.10   Removal and discipline of the Chief of Police and police officers
   
35.11   Equal employment opportunity statement
§ 35.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Police Department
Ordinance” of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.02 CHIEF OF POLICE, PAID POLICE OFFICER AND VOLUNTEER POLICE OFFICER.
   There is hereby created for the town, the offices of Chief of Police, paid
police officers and volunteer police officer, all of whom shall serve as
regular full- or part-time peace officers, not as reserve officers, at the will
and pleasure of the Mayor and Town Council. Any reference to deputy marshal
shall now refer to paid police officer or volunteer police officer, as the case
may be.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.03 APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS AND TERM OF VOLUNTEER POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Town Council may appoint one or more persons possessing the
qualifications hereinafter specified to be a volunteer police officer of the
town, to serve at the will and pleasure of the Town Council.
   (B)   In order to qualify for service as a volunteer police officer of the
town, a person must:
      (1)   Meet the minimum physical, mental, moral and educational standards
established by the State Commission on Law Enforcement Officer’s Standards;
      (2)   Intend to serve in such capacity for a civic, charitable or
humanitarian reason; and
      (3)   Declare such intent in the form of a sworn affidavit. If, at any
time, during service, the volunteer officer discovers he or she no longer has a
civic, charitable or humanitarian reason for serving in the town’s Police
Department, the officer must inform the Mayor (in writing) of that change of
intent immediately and tender (in writing) his or her written resignation from
the Department.
   (C)   Volunteer police officers of the town shall serve for an indefinite
term, which may be terminated at any time at the will and pleasure of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.04 APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATION AND TERM OF OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Town Council may appoint a Chief of Police to serve at the will
and pleasure of the Town Council.
   (B)   To qualify for service as the Chief of Police, a person must:
      (1)   Meet the minimum physical, mental, moral and educational standards
established by the State Commission on Law Enforcement Officer’s Standards; and
      (2)   Reside within 30 miles of the municipal boundaries of the town.
   (C)   The Chief of Police of the town shall serve for an indefinite term,
which may be terminated at any time at the will and pleasure of the Mayor and
Town Council.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.05 PAID POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Town Council may appoint one or more police officers to serve at
the will and pleasure of the Town Council.
   (B)   To qualify for service as a paid police officer, a person must meet
the minimum physical, mental, moral and educational standards established by
the State Commission on Law Enforcement Officer’s Standards.
   (C)   A paid police officer of the town shall serve for an indefinite term,
which may be terminated at any time at the will and pleasure of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.06 MANUAL OF RULES AND PROCEDURES.
   The Chief of Police and the person of the town serving as liaison to the
Police Department shall prepare a manual of rules and procedures governing the
conduct of the Chief of Police and all police officers; provided, however, such
rules shall not take effect until such manual is approved by the affirmative
vote of a majority of Council present and voting at any regular or special
meeting of the Town Council thereof. Such manual may be amended from time to
time only by the affirmative vote of the majority of Town Council present and
voting at any regular or special meeting of said Town Council.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.07 DUTIES OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE AND OFFICERS.
   Police officers of the town, both paid and volunteer, shall have power to
perform those duties imposed upon a marshal of a Type A municipality by the
Constitution and laws of the state or the ordinance of said town and such other
duties as may from time to time be prescribed by the Town Council of said town.
The Chief of Police shall have the duties of the police officer and, in
addition, shall be top supervisor and manager of the day-to-day operations set
forth herein. The Chief of Police will perform such other duties as may be
required by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.08 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE AND PAID POLICE
OFFICERS.
   The Chief of Police and paid police officers of the town shall receive as
compensation for the performance of the official duties of such office such sum
of money payable out of the general fund of the town as a majority of the Town
Council present and voting at any regular or special meeting of the town may
from time to time provide. Paid police officers shall be compensated consistent
with the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, being 29 U.S.C. §§ 201 et
seq. In addition, the Chief of Police and paid police officers shall be
entitled to reimbursement for all authorized expenses incurred on behalf of the
town.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.09 BENEFITS AND EXPENSES OF VOLUNTEER POLICE OFFICER.
   All volunteer police officers of the town shall be “volunteers” within the
meaning of the Fair Labor Standard Act and shall receive no compensation for
their services. By affirmative vote of a majority of Town Council, however,
volunteer police officers may be provided with “reasonable benefits” as that
term is understood under 29 U.S.C. § 203(e)(4)(A)(i). By affirmative vote of a
majority, Town Council may, in its discretion, provide its volunteer police
officers with a “nominal fee” as the term is understood under 29 U.S.C. § 203
(e)(4)(A)(i). In addition, volunteer police officers shall be entitled to
reimbursement for all authorized expenses incurred on behalf of the town.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.10 REMOVAL AND DISCIPLINE OF THE CHIEF OF POLICE AND POLICE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Removal. The Chief of Police and police officers may be discharged or
removed from office only by the affirmative vote of the Town Council, present
and voting, at any regular or special meeting of said town, with or without
cause, as the Town Council may deem appropriate, but consistent with the manual
adopted pursuant to §
35.06. The manual shall be construed to give the Chief of Police or any police
officer neither a property interest in and to his or her job, nor to create an
expectation of future or continued employment by the town.
   (B)   Actions for cause by the Town Council. 
      (1)   Consistent with the at-will status of all of the town’s police
officers, including the Chief of Police, cause is not required for the Council
to terminate the employment of the Chief or paid police officer, or the
voluntary services of a volunteer police officer. Moreover, the Council may
promote, demote, lay-off, change the assignment or shift of, or refuse to hire
any officer, with or without cause; however, the Town Council retains
discretion to discipline an officer for cause, which shall include, but shall
not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Illegal, unethical, abusive or unsafe acts;
         (b)   Violation of any rules, regulations, policies or procedures of
the town or the Police Department;
         (c)   Insubordination;
         (d)   Inefficiency;
         (e)   Incompetency;
         (f)   Neglect of duties;
         (g)   Tardiness;
         (h)   Failure to conduct himself or herself in a courteous and proper
manner while on duty;
         (i)   Falsification of official documents or records;
         (j)   Use or being under the influence of drugs or alcoholic beverages
not prescribed by a physician while on duty or reporting for duty under the
influence of such drugs or alcohol;
         (k)   Wasting material and supplies;
         (l)   Carelessness, recklessness and/or engaging in horseplay;
         (m)   Immoral conduct on indecency;
         (n)   Abuse of illness, injury, disability or other benefits;
         (o)   An abusive or violent act that is not justified under the law,
or the threat thereof;
         (p)   Unauthorized use or disclosure of official information;
         (q)   Unauthorized or improper use of official authority; and/or
         (r)   Sexual harassment of co-workers or private citizens.
      (2)   If cause is the basis for disciplinary action by the Town Council,
the Council shall give advance written notice of its proposed action to the
officer in question. Within five days of receipt of such notice, the officer
may request a hearing, in writing, and if such hearing is timely requested, the
Town Council shall hold a hearing before imposing the proposed disciplinary
action. Pending the hearing, the Town Council may suspend the officer from
service and in the case of the Chief or paid officer, the suspension may be
made with or without pay. The officer will be given at least a three days’
written notice of the charges against him or her before the hearing is held.
Any hearing shall be conducted in private, unless the officer requests, in
writing, that the hearing be conducted publicly. At the hearing, the officer
may cross-examine any witness and call witnesses and present evidence on his or
her own behalf. At the conclusion of such hearing, the Town Council shall have
broad authority to take whatever action it feels is in the best interest of the
town. The decision of the Town Council shall be final.
   (C)   Action by the Chief of Police. Officers may be reassigned at any time
for any reason; they are not guaranteed any specific assignment. The Chief of
Police may reprimand, suspend for a length of time not to exceed ten
consecutive days, reduce in rank or reassign any police officer for
disciplinary reasons when cause is present. However, no suspension or
disciplinary reassignment imposed by the Chief shall be effective unless and
until written notice is provided to the Mayor or in his or her absence, the
Mayor Pro-Tem. Furthermore, disciplinary actions taken by the Chief of Police
are subject to review at any time by Town Council, at its own discretion. If
the officer being disciplined files a request with the Town Secretary within
ten days of disciplinary action, the Mayor shall cause an item to be placed on
the next agenda of Town Council at the next regular or special meeting. The
officer will be given written notice of the matters Town Council will consider
and the opportunity to be heard. Town Council, after careful investigation of
the facts, shall have broad authority to approve, modify, or rescind the action
taken or proposed. The decision of the Town Council in final.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
§ 35.11 EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY STATEMENT.
   The town is an equal opportunity employer. It is the policy of this town
that employment and/or appointment decisions concerning the Police Department
personnel will be made without regard to race, color, creed, sex, disability,
national origin or political or intimate association, or protected speech. The
object is to obtain individuals qualified or educable for police work, with or
without reasonable accommodations, by virtue of job related standards such as
education, training, experience and personal character. There shall be no
discrimination against otherwise qualified officers or prospective officers on
the basis of age, race, color, creed, sex, disability, national origin or
political or intimate association, or protected speech, in such matters of
promotions, demotions, hiring, discharge, compensation, selection or training
assignments, or other conditions of employment.
(Ord. 2013-02, passed 5-21-2013)
CHAPTER 36: TAX, FUNDS AND FINANCE
Section
Fees and Fee Regulations
   
36.01   Utility and street rental
   
36.02   Fee schedule
Funds and Fund Regulations
   
36.15   Municipal Court Building Security Fund
Tax and Tax Regulations
   
36.30   Homestead exemption
   
36.31   Early payment of taxes
   
36.32   Tangible personal property tax
   
36.33   Penalty; delinquent property taxes
   
36.34   Telecommunication services tax
FEES AND FEE REGULATIONS
§ 36.01 UTILITY AND STREET RENTAL.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Short title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the
“Utility and Street Rental Ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
      (2)   Definitions and rules of construction. For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ACT. The Public Utility Regulatory Act (Tex. Utilities Code, Chapter
11), as the same now exists or may hereafter be amended.
         COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.
         OTHER BUSINESS. Any person other than a utility engaged in any
commercial activity for profit.
         PERSON. Any natural person as well as partnerships, joint ventures,
corporations or any other entity recognized by the laws of the state as capable
of owning property, except the state, or any political subdivision thereof.
         TOWN. The Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.
         UTILITY. Any person now or hereafter owning or operating for
compensation in this state equipment or facilities for:
            1.    Producing, generating, transmitting, distributing, selling or
furnishing electricity;
            2.   Transmitting or distributing combustible hydrocarbon natural
or synthetic natural gas for sale or resale;
            3.   Transmitting, storing, distributing, selling or furnishing of
potable water to the public or for resale to the public for any use; or
            4.   The conveyance, transmission or reception of communications
over a telephone system.
      (3)   Other remedies reserved. The town hereby expressly reserves any and
all administrative or civil remedies available to it under the provisions of
the Act or any other provisions of the Constitution and laws of the state.
      (4)   Savings clause. This section shall not be affected by any
resolution, order or ordinance hereafter adopted granting a franchise to any
utility or other business or relating to the rates charged by or any standards,
classifications, regulations or practices required to be followed by any
utility or other business and all such resolutions, orders and ordinances shall
be cumulative of and in addition to this ordinance.
   (B)   Street rental.
      (1)   Report required. Every utility or other business using with its
poles, wires, conduits, pipes or other tangible personal property (including,
but not being limited to, vehicles) the streets, easements, alleys and other
public ways and places within the corporate limits of the town shall file with
the Secretary of the town not later than May 1 of each calendar year, a sworn
report showing the gross receipts from the business conducted by such utility
or other business within the corporate limits of the town for the period which
begins on April 1 of the preceding calendar year and which will end on the last
day of March of the then current calendar year.
      (2)   Examination of books and records. The Town Council may when it sees
fit have the books and records of any utility or other business rendering the
report required by division (B)(1) above examined by an attorney at law or
certified public accountant, or both, retained by the town but nothing in this
section shall be construed to prevent the town from ascertaining the facts by
any other method.
      (3)   Annual rental required; credit for franchise payments; rental not
tax.
         (a)   On May 1 each and every calendar year, every utility or other
business for the privilege of using with their poles, wires, conduits, pipes
and other tangible property (including, but not limited to, vehicles) the
streets, easements, alleys and other public ways and places of the town shall,
as a condition to such further use, pay to the town annually for such privilege
a rental equal to 2% of the gross receipts received by such utility or other
business from its business conducted within the corporate limits of the town
for the period which begins on April 1 of the preceding calendar year and which
will end on March 31 of the then current calendar year.
         (b)   Every utility or other business making any payments pursuant to
the terms of any franchise hereafter granted by the Town Council shall be
entitled to have any such franchise payments credited against the annual street
rental payments required by division (B)(3)(a) above to be paid for the same
period of time.
         (c)   The rental for the privilege of using the streets, easements,
alleys and other public ways and places within the corporate limits of the town
established by division (B)(3)(a) above is not charged as a tax but is made for
the privilege now enjoyed and to be enjoyed by utilities and other businesses
using the streets, easements, alleys and other public ways and places of the
town in the conduct of their respective businesses; and such charges are in
addition to all ad valorem and other taxes and lawful assessments of every
nature whatsoever against such utilities or other businesses.
      (4)   Issuance of receipt and effect thereof; not franchise; duty of
utilities; cancellation of privilege.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the above rental, the Secretary of the town
shall deliver to the utility or other business a receipt for such rental, which
said receipt shall authorize such utility or other business to use and occupy
the streets, easements, alleys and other public ways of the town in the conduct
of their respective businesses for the next 12 consecutive months beginning on
April 1 of the calendar year in which such rental is paid.
         (b)   This section does not grant a franchise to any utility or other
business and shall never be construed as such by the courts of this state or
otherwise.
         (c)   Any utility or other business using or occupying the streets,
easements, alleys and other public ways and places of the town with its poles,
wires, conduits, pipes or other tangible personal property (including, but not
limited to, vehicles) shall, after using, installing, maintaining or removing
any poles, wires, conduits, pipes or other tangible personal property, as the
case may be, have the duty to repair and place such streets, easements, alleys
and other public ways and places in as good condition as they were in prior to
such use, installation, maintenance or removal.
         (d)   The town hereby reserves the right to cancel at any time the
privileges hereby granted with respect to any utility or other business upon
the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Town Council taken at
any regular or special meeting thereof after notice and an opportunity to be
heard has been afforded such utility or other business; provided, however,
where the effective date of such cancellation occurs during the 12-month period
for which such utility or other business has theretofore paid the rental fee
prescribed by division (B)(3)(a) above, the pro rata portion of such rental for
the remainder of such period shall be refunded by the Secretary to such utility
or other business unless such rental was only credited as a result of a
franchise payment pursuant to the provisions of division (B)(3)(b) above.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 3-30-1982)
§ 36.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
   Street rental fees shall not exceed in aggregate the equivalent of 2% of
gross receipts of any utility operating within the town that is derived from
the sale of gas, electricity, water or any other utility.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 3-30-1982)
FUNDS AND FUND REGULATIONS
§ 36.15 MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   The facts and opinion in the preamble of the ordinance codified herein
are true and correct.
   (B)   There is herein created a special revenue Municipal Court Building
Security Fund to be used to provide security for the Municipal Court, its
employees and judges. Defendants convicted in a trial for a misdemeanor offense
in Municipal Court will pay a $3 security fee as cost of trial into that fund.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 3-19-1999)
TAX AND TAX REGULATIONS
§ 36.30 HOMESTEAD EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Constitutional exemption adopted. The Town Council hereby expressly
adopts by its own action the provisions of Article VIII, § 1-b(b) of the
Constitution of the state.
   (B)   Amount, limitation on and criteria of the exemptions. Upon compliance
with all the requirements of this section, $35,000 of the assessed value of
residence homesteads of persons who are 65 years of age or older, or who are
under a disability for purposes of payment of disability insurance benefits
under Federal Old Age, Survivors or Disability Insurance or its successor,
shall be exempt from ad valorem taxes levied by the town. The exemption
authorized hereby shall extend only to a residence homestead as the same may be
defined by the laws of the state. Such exemption shall be allowed only if the
property in question is in fact the residence homestead of the applicant and
such persons have attained the age of 65 years prior to applying for such
exemption, or is in fact disabled as above provided; provided, however, the
exemption shall be granted if the property in question is owned by a husband
and wife if one spouse is so disabled or upon one such spouses attaining the
age of 65 years prior to applying therefor. An eligible disabled person who is
65 years of age or older may not receive both exemptions in the same year, but
may choose either exemption.
   (C)   Administration of exemptions. The exemptions adopted in this section
shall be administered as provided in the Texas Property Tax Code.
   (D)   Effective date and duration of section. This section shall take effect
and be in force from and after its passage and approval. This section shall be
applicable to taxes levied for the town as it now exists or may be hereafter
amended unless repealed.
(Ord. 83-30, passed 5-31-1983; Ord. 85-58, passed 10-15-1985)
§ 36.31 EARLY PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   (A)   As authorized by Tex. Tax Code, §§ 31.01 and 31.05, any person who
pays before December 1, one-half of the total amount of ad valorem taxes levied
on his or her property within the town, due for that tax year, may pay the
remaining one-half of said taxes without penalty or interest at any time before
July 1 of the following year.
   (B)   As authorized by Tex. Tax Code, § 31.05, any person who pays his or
her total ad valorem taxes due prior to January 1 is entitled to the following,
discount from the amount of ad valorem tax due:
      (1)   Three percent if the tax is paid in October;
      (2)   Two percent if the tax is paid in November; and
      (3)   One percent if the tax is paid in December.
(Ord. 85-61, passed 11-19-1985)
§ 36.32 TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX.
   The town shall tax all tangible personal property as defined in Texas State
Constitution, Tex. Tax Code, § 11.251.
(Res. 89-53, passed 12-19-1989)
§ 36.33 PENALTY; DELINQUENT PROPERTY TAXES.
   The town adopts the additional 15% penalties to defray the costs of
collection of delinquent taxes collected by the town as authorized by Tex. Tax
Code, §§
33.07 and 33.08 for the current year and each succeeding year thereafter.
(Res. 99-90, passed 11-15-1999)
§ 36.34 TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES TAX.
   (A)   (1)   A tax is hereby authorized on all telecommunications services
sold within the town. For purposes of this section, the sale of
telecommunications services is consummated at the location of the telephone or
other telecommunications device from which the call or other communication
originates. If the point of origin cannot be determined, the sale is
consummated at the address to which the call or other communication is billed.
      (2)   The rate of tax imposed by this section shall be the same as the
rate imposed by the town, for all other local sales and use taxes as authorized
by the legislature of the state.
      (3)   The Town Secretary shall forward to the Comptroller of the state by
United States registered or certified mail, a copy of this section, along with
a copy of the minutes of the Town Council’s vote and discussion on this
section.
      (4)   This section became effective as of October 1, 1987.
   (B)   This section shall be and is hereby declared to be cumulative of all
other ordinances of the town, and this section shall not operate to repeal or
affect any of such other ordinances. The tax provided for hereunder shall not
serve as an offset to, be in lieu of or in any way reduce any amount payable to
the town pursuant to any franchise, street use ordinance, charter provision,
statute or, without limitation by the foregoing enumeration, otherwise payable
by any provider of telecommunications service; it being the express intent
hereof that all such obligations, impositions and agreements of every kind and
nature shall remain in full force and effect without reduction or limitation
hereby.
   (C)   This section is to be liberally construed to achieve its remedial
purposes.
(Ord. 87-87, passed 6-16-1987)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES; UTILITY SERVICE
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   PRIVATE SEPTIC SYSTEM
      
53.   DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES; UTILITY SERVICE
Section
Utilities; Construction
   
50.01   Short title
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Requirements for utilities on private property
   
50.04   Requirements for utilities on public property
   
50.05   Other remedies
Utility Service
   
50.20   Purpose
   
50.21   Service contract and service agreement
   
50.22   Refusal of service
   
50.23   Suspension of service
   
50.24   Disconnection for late payment
   
50.25   Service rules
   
50.26   Deposits
   
50.27   Fees
   
50.28   Adjustments
   
50.29   Complaints
   
50.30   Appeals
   
50.31   Supplying and taking of service
   
50.32   Nonliability
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Drought Contingency Plan, see
Chapter 53
   Private septic system, see
Chapter 52
   Solid waste, see
Chapter 51
UTILITIES; CONSTRUCTION
§ 50.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Utility Ordinance of
the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 86-65, passed 1-21-1986)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. An individual, company, corporation, partnership or other entity and
their officers, agents, servants and employees.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Includes, but is not limited to, streets, alleys,
easements, ditches, lakes, parks, buildings and other public places,
improvements and personal property, and also includes, but is not limited to
any property owned or held in trust for the public by the Town of Holiday
Lakes, Texas.
   UTILITY. Any individual, company, partnership, corporation or other entity
and their officers, agents, servants, and employees, which are in the business
of providing gas, water, electricity, telephone, telegraph, television and
sewer services to the public.
(Ord. 86-65, passed 1-21-1986)
§ 50.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR UTILITIES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Any person installing, building, constructing, repairing or replacing any
pipe, conduit lines, cable or any other conveyance far any utility on private
property shall cover or bury the same with at least 30 inches of top soil.
(Ord. 86-65, passed 1-21-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR UTILITIES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person installing, building, constructing, repairing or replacing
any pipe, conduit, lines, cable or any other conveyances for any utility on any
public property must first obtain a permit from the town.
   (B)   Such permit shall be in writing and shall be issued after an
affirmative vote of Town Council.
   (C)   The Town Council may grant such permit only after receiving proof that
such person has in full force and effect liability insurance of not less than
$250,000 insuring against personal injury or death to any one person, $100,000
insuring against property damage and $50,000 insuring against personal injury
or death out of any one incident.
      (1)   Such permit will also contain a provision whereby the person
applying therefore agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the town, its
officers, agents, servants and employees from any liability, injury, damage,
loss, attorneys fees and out-of-pocket expenses as a result of any acts or
omissions of any person with regard to the activities being conducted pursuant
to such permit and agreeing to place and restore any public property damaged or
destroyed due to such acts or omissions in as good or better condition as such
property was in before any work was performed pursuant to such permit.
      (2)   Such permit shall also require that such person to take all
necessary precautions to protect the public who may be on such public property
from any injury, loss or damage as result of the work being performed pursuant
to such permit.
      (3)   Such permit shall state that any such utility is acting as an
independent contractor.
   (D)   In addition, the Town Council may impose any reasonable term,
condition and/or requirement upon such permit as necessary to protect the town
and the public property within its limits.
   (E)   Any person installing, building, constructing, repairing or replacing
any pipe, conduit, lines, cable or any other conveyance without first obtaining
a permit as required herein, or who violates any term, condition or requirement
of such permit, is guilty of a misdemeanor and may be punished as provided
herein.
   (F)   Any person installing, building, constructing, repairing or replacing
any pipe, conduit, lines, cable or any other conveyance on public property for
a utility must cover or bury the same with at least 30 inches of top soil.
   (G)   Any utility line crossing of any roadway will require boring. Cutting
of roadway is not permitted.
(Ord. 86-65, passed 1-21-1986) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to the filing of a complaint in municipal court, the Town
Council may bring suit in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 86-65, passed 1-21-1986)
UTILITY SERVICE
§ 50.20 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are designed to ensure fair, consistent, courteous and
safe provisions of utilities to all customers of the town. All previous rules
and policies which are in conflict with these regulations are superseded. The
town covenants that its utilities will be provided in conformance with
applicable laws of the United States and the state, including the making and
collecting of reasonable and sufficient rates for operation of its utility
systems.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.21 SERVICE CONTRACT AND SERVICE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   When a customer desires to be supplied services by the town, an
application for service form shall be filled out and properly executed. Persons
residing in a newly constructed home or a mobile home just moved into the town
shall be required to submit a copy of the building permit issued by the town
with the application of service. Such application shall constitute a service
contract until canceled by either party. The application must be signed in
person by the applicant or a duly authorized agent. A valid photographic
identification will be required. Service contracts are binding upon the heirs,
legal representatives and successors of the customer, but are not assignable or
transferable. The town shall rely upon information supplied by the applicant,
and shall not be held responsible for false or misleading information contained
in the application for service. Deliberately false or misleading information
supplied by the applicant shall be cause for immediate termination of service.
   (B)   Applications must be completed either by residents or owners of
properties within the town only.
   (C)   In order for the town to protect the drinking water supply from
contamination or pollution which could result from improper plumbing practices,
each new customer must sign a service agreement which serves to notify said
customer of the plumbing restriction. Additionally, when service to an existing
connection has been suspended or terminated, the town will not re-establish
service until a signed copy of the service agreement has been properly executed
and filed with the town.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.22 REFUSAL OF SERVICE.
   Utility service to an applicant may be denied until all applicable
regulations have been met, and for the following reasons:
   (A)   Inadequate facilities. If applicant’s facilities or installation is of
such a nature that satisfactory or safe service cannot be given, which
includes, but is not limited to, a properly installed septic system on property
with residential quarters;
   (B)   Indebtedness. If applicant has any outstanding indebtedness to the
Utility Department; and if such indebtedness is in dispute, the applicant will
be served by the town utilities upon posting a pre-settlement deposit for the
disputed amount, to be retained by the town until such date that a final
determination is made. Upon settlement, the deposit shall either be refunded or
retained by town. Indebtedness shall include, but not be limited to, the prior
charges for service at the specified address, an obvious attempt to circumvent
paying the utility bill at such residence is made by attempting to place the
service in a family member or relative’s name or the establishing of service in
a friend’s name, all the while maintaining residency and the account is
delinquent. Indebtedness shall also include moving into a residence where an
account is in a friend or family member’s name while customer’s account is
delinquent; or
   (C)   Prior unpaid balances. An applicant with a prior unpaid balance will
be denied new service until the previous outstanding balance is paid in full.
Further, in addition to the stipulated deposit, you will be required to pay an
additional $100 deposit.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.23 SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   When a hazardous breach of service occurs on the customer side of the point
of delivery, or such event serves to jeopardize service to other customers on
the system, the town reserves the right to suspend customer service, without
notice, until such situation is corrected. Breaches of service include, but are
not limited to, improper or inadequate sewage facilities; water leaks; a
resident providing any town services to another resident; and facilitating
another water connection on the same property which also includes travel
trailers, outbuildings used as a residence and the like.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.24 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   If any bill is not paid on or before tenth of the month, a cutoff
notice shall be mailed, noting that if bill remains unpaid, service is subject
to disconnection for nonpayment on or after 20th day of the month.
   (B)   Any customer disputing the correctness of their bill shall have the
right to a hearing at which time they may be represented in person, by counsel
or any other person of their choosing and may present orally or in writing
their complaint(s) and contention(s) to the city official in charge of utility
billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer’s service
not be disconnected and shall have the authority to decide appropriate action
to be taken on the customer’s complaint. If the customer remains unsatisfied,
they may file an appeal bond in the amount of the disputed bill and appeal the
decision to the Town Council whose decision is final. If a discrepancy is
found, an adjustment shall be made to the customer’s account; this adjustment
will appear on the next month’s bill.
   (C)   Requests for delays or a waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the town to discontinue utility service
for nonpayment of bill, service will only be reinstated after all bills for
service then due and the reconnection fee has been paid in full.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.25 SERVICE RULES.
   (A)   Meter readings. Under normal circumstances, customer meters will be
read starting on the seventeenth day of the service month, or the next
succeeding working day if the seventeenth is on a weekend. If meters cannot be
read because of dogs, cars, brush and the like, a notation shall be made by the
meter reader, and the utility office shall estimate the meter reading based
upon average usage. The customer will be notified by certified mail that the
problem must be resolved before the next meter reading, or the service will be
disconnected. Correction of estimated reading, when necessary, will be made in
the next succeeding month following removal of problem.
   (B)   Billing. The current bill, water and/or garbage, is due and payable on
the first of the month, and if not paid by the tenth of the month, the eleventh
day a late fee of $25 will be added to the bill. Any unpaid portion of a bill
exceeding the amount of $5 will initiate the assessment of the stipulated
penalty.
   (C)   Delinquent bills. 
      (1)   On delinquent bills, payment extensions may be granted no more than
two times annually. The procedure for defaulting on a payment plan would entail
immediate disconnection until the bill is brought to a current status.
Defaulting will result in no further extensions being granted for a period of
one year.
      (2)   If a bill is not paid by the eleventh day of the service month, a
disconnection list will be prepared on the eleventh day of the service month.
Service will be disconnected on the fifteenth of the service month. A follow-up
shall be conducted to ascertain that water has not been reconnected by the
customer.
         (a)   If water is reconnected by the customer, this could be
considered theft of service. A fee of $100 will be assessed to the already
delinquent account. Until this assessed fee and all delinquent amounts are paid
in full, the meter and service will not be restored.
         (b)   If this occurs more than two times, charges of theft of service
will be filed in the county. Town Council will have the prerogative of
continuing, or not, the service to that customer during the interim.
         (c)   Senior citizens and/or disabled residents, who regularly receive
their government checks between the eleventh and twenty-fifth of each month may
be permitted to pay their monthly bills during this time frame, without
penalty, providing official documentation is presented, and approved, prior to
the bill reaching a delinquent status.
         (d)   When an account is delinquent and unpaid for 45 days the account
will be closed and the deposit applied to the balance. Once the remaining
balance and new deposits are paid services will be restored. Court charges will
be filed for balances over $100 that remain unpaid for an additional 45 days.
   (D)   Reconnects. Upon payment of all past due amounts and such other
payment necessary to bring the account to a current status, including the gross
amount of the bill, plus payment of the reconnection fee, utility service shall
be restored. After-hours reconnection fees are in addition to regular fees.
   (E)   Life support. In the event that town utility service is necessary to
sustain a life support system, customers shall be required to notify the town,
in writing, in advance that such necessity exists, and the conditions and terms
of such necessity. The town reserves the right to verify such necessity,
including the requirement of supporting medical documentation. Life support
utility service shall not be discontinued by the town for non-payment of bills,
unless the customer so affected has been personally notified of the town’s
intent to discontinue service and given not less than 30 calendar days to
resolve the financial deficiency. Emergency backup system shall be the
customer’s responsibility.
   (F)   Deferred Payment Plan. In life support cases, or extreme hardship
cases, requests shall be submitted, in writing, to the Town Secretary.
Documentation of stated hardship shall be required. Upon reaching a decision by
the appropriate officials, the customers will be notified, in writing. The
customer’s utility service may be continued, provided:
      (1)   Current utility bills are maintained on a current basis;
      (2)   A reasonable time payment plan is accepted by the town in payment
of all delinquent utility accounts, as well as all penalties, and such time
period shall not exceed three months;
      (3)   An amount not to exceed $350 of water tap fee may be remitted in
four monthly consecutive installments of $87.50 each; and
      (4)   If the customer is unable to pay his or her bill by the fifteenth
of the service month, he or she may request an extension date for that
particular month. The customer must personally sign the request form, which
will be countersigned by the town, if approved. The customer is only allowed
two extensions per calendar year.
   (G)   Garbage. 
      (1)   A garbage collection fee will be charged for each water meter in
service. Residences maintaining water and not utilizing the town’s water system
will be charged a monthly garbage collection fee. As provided in §
51.12, if a partial payment is submitted, said partial payment shall be first
applied to the garbage fee and, secondly, to the penalty, if any. Any remaining
monies shall lastly be applied to the water fee. If one is a garbage customer
only, the customer’s polycart will be reclaimed and the solid waste contractor
notified that his or her service be discontinued until full payment is
received. All residents shall be required to pay a monthly garbage fee, no
exceptions. Chapter 51 prohibits the transporting of garbage over the streets
of the town and the state prohibits the burning of household garbage or any
other debris such as limbs, twigs, leaves and the like. The garbage fee will be
billed monthly with the water bill. The fees charged for these services shall
be categorized as residential (one polycart); residential (two polycarts); and
commercial fees are itemized in §
50.27. A customer with less than six months’ residency will be eligible for the
service of monthly heavy trash and other debris pick up at the beginning of the
seventh month. If the necessity for heavy pickup arises during that six-month
period, the customer must contact Town Hall, in person, to facilitate his or
her request which will include the filing of a request for this service. The
customer will be billed based on a prorated fee determined on a percentage
basis by the solid waste provider governed by the current rate paid by the town
for the heavy trash containers. Failure to pay the expenses incurred will
include not only discontinuance of all town services, but also a lien being
placed upon his or her property. If one is a renter, his or her landlord must
sign the request for service as equally responsible for this service if he or
she fails to remit the incurred charges. A customer with less than six months’
residency will be required to pay a prorated fee determined on a percentage
basis by the solid waste provider based on the current rate paid by the town.
      (2)   These rates may change from time to time as necessitated by
operational costs and by a favorable vote of the Town Council, present and
voting.
   (H)   Request for termination of service. When a customer requests the
termination of service by the town, a request for termination application will
be submitted and properly executed. Said application shall constitute a
termination contract between the customer and the town. The application must be
signed in person by the applicant or a duly authorized agent. Valid
photographic identification will be required. Termination of service will
require that all fees for past services be paid in full or arrangements made
for timely payments. If customer fails to execute the request for termination,
all accruing expenses will be billed to that customer. The town shall not be
held liable for false or misleading information contained in the request for
termination application.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.26 DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Required deposits for all customers shall be as follows.
      (1)   Customers currently on the water system on date of acquisition by
the town shall not be required to pay a deposit; however, should that account
become delinquent and result in disconnection, the deposit amount currently in
effect, and a reconnection fee, in addition to the entire outstanding balance,
will be due and payable before reconnection.
      (2)   Any customer whose service is disconnected two times during a 120-
day time frame shall be required to remit an additional deposit of $100.
      (3)   All new customers shall be required to pay a deposit in the amount
of $154, plus a non-refundable connection fee in the amount of $50.
      (4)   A key deposit of $25 is required for each mailbox.
      (5)   All customers on a private well shall pay a deposit of $100 for
garbage service.
      (6)   Deposits shall not be waived for letters of credit or co-signers.
      (7)   A deposit will not be required for public schools, governmental
agencies or churches.
   (B)   A deposit for temporary or seasonal service may be required by the
town in such amounts as determined by the Town Council to be sufficient to
protect the town against the risk of loss of payment for services.
   (C)   Upon discontinuance of service, the deposit shall be applied to the
payment of the final utility bill, with any negative balance billed to the
customer, or a positive balance being refunded to the customer upon request. A
transfer of service from one premises to another shall not be deemed
discontinuance, but all service charges for such transfer shall apply.
   (D)   Interest shall not be paid by the town on deposits.
   (E)   Unclaimed deposits shall be maintained on the town’s records for two
years. After any such funds have been unclaimed for two years, notice shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the county, stating that
funds on account of utility customers of the town, unless claimed within 21
days become the property of the town. Such notice shall be published one time
and shall list the names of the customers having funds on deposit.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.27 FEES.
   (A)   The following fees shall be charged for services:
      (1)   Water lines only, including meter: $350;
      (2)   Water deposit: $154;
      (3)   Initial connection fee: $50;
      (4)   Reconnection fee: $30;
      (5)   Accuracy test: $25;
      (6)   Returned check charge: $35;
      (7)   Research account (customer request): $25 + $10 per hour;
      (8)   Base rate (first 5,000 gallons): $46;
      (9)   Rate per 1,000 gallons in excess of base rate:
         (a)   5,001 to 9,000: $1.50;
         (b)   9,001 to 12,000: $3; and
         (c)   12,001 and up: $3.50.
      (10)   Monthly residential garbage fee, including tax: $37;
      (11)   Monthly residential (two polycarts) including tax: $42;
      (12)   Monthly commercial garbage fee including tax: $80;
      (13)   Monthly flat rate for nonresident (under 1,000 gallons): $23;
      (13)   Monthly mailbox maintenance fee:
         (a)   Small: $3; and
         (b)   Large: $5.
      (15)   Late fee (penalty): $25;
      (16)   Mail box key deposit: $25;
      (17)   After hours reconnection fee: $60;
      (18)   Construction dumpster (can be purchased through contractor);
      (19)   Afterhours callout fee (problem on customer’s side of meter): $60;
      (20)   Service transfer fee: $30;
      (21)   Copies of bills: $2; and
      (22)   Account history printouts: $0.10/page.
   (B)   It is expressly stipulated that all payments shall be applied firstly
to the garbage service, secondly to the penalty, if any, and thirdly, to the
water service. Should the account become in arrears, all services will be
disconnected and/or suspended until the account is paid in full.
   (C)   These rates may change from time to time as necessitated by
operational costs and debt retirement by favorable vote of the Town Council,
present and voting.
(Utility Service Regulations of 8-26-2014; Utility Service Regulations of 5-19-
2015)
§ 50.28 ADJUSTMENTS.
   If a meter accuracy test discloses a registration error greater than 4%, all
customer bills affected by such error shall be appropriately adjusted, based on
the best information available, except that adjustments will not be retroactive
more than one year or to the last meter test, whichever was more recent. If an
accuracy test is conducted at the request of the customer, and such test
reveals the meter registering correctly with the established limits, the
customer shall pay the cost of the accuracy test. If an obviously over-read has
been billed to an account, an adjustment shall be made based on the reread
reading and the last known true reading from the meter or the best information
available. If an over-read occurred, the customer shall not be charged an
accuracy test fee.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.29 COMPLAINTS.
   The town shall investigate customer complaints. A written record of the
details of all customer complaints shall be maintained for a period of one year
from resolution.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.30 APPEALS.
   A customer may appeal the application of any provision of these service
regulations to the Town Council whose administrative decision is final.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.31 SUPPLYING AND TAKING OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Supply of service. The town utility services are supplied at rates
which are established by the Town Council, and amended from time to time. The
town shall bear no responsibility for any occurrence or condition beyond the
point of delivery of service.
   (B)   Continuity of service. The town shall have no liability and provides
no guarantee against irregularities or interruptions in service. Without
incurring any liability, the town may change or interrupt utility service when
necessary for maintenance, repairs or system improvements. The customer will
hold the town harmless from and against all claims for injury or damage to
persons or property arising from irregularities or interruptions of the
delivery of services. A 24-hour advance notice will be posted to planned
interruptions. Attempts will be made to notify those identified under §
50.25(E), when unplanned interruptions occur.
   (C)   Customer responsibility. The customer assumes all responsibility for
any occurrence or condition on the customer’s side of the point of delivery.
The customer shall not utilize any town utility service for resale, except by
means with the town for that purpose. All utility apparatus, materials and
workmanship installed by the customer shall meet all applicable laws and be
selected and maintained with the intent of obtaining the maximum in safety,
efficiency and protection of facilities. The customer has the obligation to
notify the town before making any substantial change in obligation for service
that is indicated on the application for service. The customer has the
responsibility to protect town service apparatus on customer’s premise from any
use, repair, alteration or damage by anyone other than employees or agents of
the town. The meter is required to be located in a meter box with a cover.
Should it become damaged through negligence of the customer, the replacement
costs will be billed to customer. The customer is financially responsible for
loss of water on the consumer’s side of the point of delivery, unless such loss
is due to negligence on the part of the town. When a new or reconnection of
utility service is made, the customer must be physically present at the site of
the meter, or else must present to the town a signed statement of release of
liability for such action.
   (D)   Town inspection. The town retains the right, but does not assume the
duty, to inspect customer’s installations at any reasonable time, and to take
appropriate action in the event such installations do not conform to the
regulations herein. Any customer who obtains utility service from the town by
circumventing or tampering with the town utility metering device or
appurtenance, or by any other means, damages any facility, or interferes with
the intended manner of providing utility service shall be in violation of these
regulations. Evidence of such violation of these regulations shall be prima
facie evidence of intention to defraud the town and prosecution will occur as
provided by law.
   (E)   Landlord’s responsibilities. 
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the landlord to notify Town Hall
when property is rented, as well as apprising the tenant of the necessity of
making an application for water service and/or garbage service prior to
occupation of the rented premises. Failure to do so will result in the landlord
being billed for said service.
      (2)   All provisions of the regulations shall be deemed to be
incorporated into a contract between the town and its customers, and by the act
of applying for and accepting utility service from the town, customer assents
to the knowledge and acceptance thereof, as evidence by the signing of the
application of service.
§ 50.32 NONLIABILITY.
   Neither the town, nor its officers, agents, employees, accountants, nor
contractors shall be liable to any person other than the town for any act of
omission, or condition in any way related, directly or indirectly, to this
policy.
(Ord. passed 8-26-2014)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
50.01 through 50.05 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not
exceeding $200, and each day any such violation continues or occurs shall
constitute a separate offense. No offense committed and no fine, forfeiture or
penalty incurred prior to the effective date of §§
50.01 through 50.05 is to be affected by the adoption of §§
50.01 through 50.05, but the punishment for any offense committed and the
recovery of any fines or forfeitures incurred prior to such date shall take
place as if §§
50.01 through 50.05 had not been adopted.
(Ord. 86-65, passed 1-21-1986)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Short title
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Rules of construction
   
51.04   Solid waste collection by town
   
51.05   Solid waste collection and billing supervised by Mayor
   
51.06   Collection practices
   
51.07   Garbage fees
   
51.08   Storing or scattering solid or heavy waste
   
51.09   Water service
   
51.10   Water fees
   
51.11   Water wells
   
51.12   Billing and partial payments
   
51.13   Theft of service
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Utility Ordinance of
the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUSINESS. Hotels, motels, restaurants, bars, grocery and
convenience stores, shops, gas stations, multi-family dwellings, mobile home
parks having a common place for disposal of solid waste by all inhabitants of
said park, and any other type of business commonly considered to be a
COMMERCIAL BUSINESS.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. Any solid waste ordinarily accumulated in the usual
operation of a commercial business and which is not substantially greater than
normal.
   DAMAGE. Any person who obtains utility service from the town by
circumventing or tampering with the town utility metering devise or apparatus,
or by any other means damages any facility, lines, fire hydrant or interferes
with the intended manner of providing utility service shall be in violation of
this chapter.
   DIVERT. Bypassing the water cutoff valve by any means, or by connecting more
than one habitation to the water system by any means, or by sharing the same
connection valve assigned to one habitation.
   FAMILY. An individual or individuals living together in a single unit
dwelling.
   FRANCHISEE. Any person to whom the town grants a franchise of contract for
the collection, conveyance and disposal of solid or heavy waste whereby the
franchisee contracts with his or her customers for the collection of solid or
heavy waste.
   HABITATION. Any structure, building, mobile home, manufactured home, travel
trailer, motor home or any other enclosure capable of being used as living
quarters.
   HEAVY WASTE. Bulky or heavy materials, including, but not limited to,
bricks, broken concrete, rocks, construction materials, roofing materials,
trees or brush trimmed or cut by a commercial tree trimmer, refrigerators,
freezers, washers, dryers, stoves and ovens, mattresses, and other items of
furniture. For purposes of this chapter, HEAVY WASTE shall also include dead
animals or fowl, manure and waste oils from garages and filling stations.
   HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Any solid waste ordinarily accumulated by a family in the
usual operation of a residence and which is not substantially greater than
normal.
   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR. Any person with whom the town has contracted for the
collection, conveyance and disposal of solid waste within the town, collecting
the fees from such services from its inhabitants and paying the contractor for
such services.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.
   OWNER. The person or persons having legal title to any property within the
town.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity, and includes, but is not limited to, the owner of the legal or
equitable title of real property as well as any lessee, tenant or occupant of
any real property.
   SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, trash, refuse, sludge or any other discarded
material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or containing gaseous material
resulting from industrial, municipal, commercial, mining, residential and
agricultural operations, and from community and institutional activities, but
does not include solid or dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or
dissolved material in irrigation return flows, or industrial discharges subject
to regulation by permit issued pursuant to Chapter 26, Water Code; soil, dirt,
rock, sand and other natural or human-made inert solid materials used to fill
land if the object of the fill is to make the land suitable for construction of
surface improvements; or for waste materials which result from activities
associated with exploration, development or production of oil or gas which are
subject to control by the State Railroad Commission.
   THEFT OF SERVICE. A person commits theft of service if, with intent to avoid
payment for service that he or she knows is provided only for compensation, and
having control over the disposition of service of another to which he or she is
not entitled, he or she intentionally or knowingly diverts the other’s service
to his or her own benefit or to the benefit of another not entitled to them.
   TOWN. The Town of Holiday Lakes, Brazoria County, Texas.
   TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.
   TOWN LIMITS. The corporate limits of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas, as
they now exist and those areas annexed to said town in the future.
   UNUSUAL ACCUMULATIONS. For household waste, accumulation of more than nine
plastic bags or trash cans of permissible solid waste, and limbs or cuttings
that exceed approximately one cubic yard. For commercial waste, any
accumulation not ordinarily encountered in the usual operation of a business,
or accumulation substantially greater than normal.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 51.03 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Exceptions. In any prosecution hereunder in the Municipal Court of the
town or any other court of competent jurisdiction, the complaint charging a
violation of this chapter need not negate the existence of any exception
contained herein, but the existence of the same may be raised by the defendant
in any such prosecution by way of defense.
   (B)   Prima facie evidence. In any prosecution hereunder in the Municipal
Court of the town or any other court of competent jurisdiction, proof that any
tract of land, the description of which is alleged in the complaint on which
such prosecution is based, is listed as being owned by any person on the
current tax roll of the town, shall be prima facie evidence that such land is
owned by such person; provided, however, the prima facie proof herein provided
for may be rebutted by the defendant against whom such proof is offered in any
such prosecution.
   (C)   Affirmative defense. In any prosecution hereunder in the Municipal
Court of the town or any other court of competent jurisdiction, the prosecuting
attorney is not required to negate the existence of an affirmative defense in
the accusation charging commission of the offense. In any such prosecution the
defendant must prove any such affirmative defense by a preponderance of the
evidence.
   (D)   Savings clauses. This chapter is cumulative of and in addition to all
other ordinances of the town, on the same subject and all such ordinances are
hereby expressly saved from repeal; provided, however, where this chapter and
other ordinance conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
regulations or penalties, as the case may be, shall prevail. No offense
committed and no fine, forfeiture or penalty incurred prior to the effective
date of this chapter is to be affected by the adoption of this chapter but the
punishment for any offense committed and the recovery of any fines or
forfeitures incurred prior to such date shall take place as if this chapter had
not been adopted.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION BY TOWN.
   All solid waste accumulated in the town shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by the town. No person shall collect, convey over any of the
streets or alleys of the town or dispose of any solid waste accumulated in the
town. It is an affirmative defense to any prosecution in the Municipal Court of
the town or any other court of competent jurisdiction that: the collection,
conveyance or disposal is being done by any duly authorized officer, agent,
employee, independent contractor or franchisee of the town; or the collection,
conveyance or disposal is being done by actual producers of the solid waste, or
the owners of premises upon which the solid waste has accumulated, provided
such producers or owners comply with the provisions of this chapter and with
any other governing law, or ordinances or regulations prescribed by the town or
the Mayor; provided, however, that such actual producers shall still be
required to pay all fees required by §
51.07.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND BILLING SUPERVISED BY MAYOR.
   The Mayor or his or her designee shall have the authority to make written
regulations concerning the days of collection, type and location of waste
containers, amount reasonably to be collected by the town, method of billing of
customers, and such other matters pertaining to the collection, conveyance,
disposal and billing as he or she shall find necessary, and to change and
modify the same, so long as not inconsistent with provisions of this chapter;
provided, such policy shall have no force and effect unless and until the same
has been approved by majority vote of the Town Council present and voting at
any regular or special meeting thereof. All such administrative policies, after
promulgation and approval, shall be maintained by the Secretary in the
permanent records of the town. Any violation of such regulation shall be a
misdemeanor punishable as provided above, but it is an affirmative defense to
any prosecution in the Municipal Court of the town or any other court of
competent jurisdiction that any person charged with a violation of such
administrative policy had not previously received notice from the Mayor or his
or her designee warning such person of a violation and had not previously been
given a copy of the regulations such person was charged with violating.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Residential. The town, through its independent contractor, will
furnish receptacles to be used by all families within the town limits for the
disposal of households waste. Each family is responsible for transporting the
solid waste they produce to the receptacles furnished by the town. Each family
may dispose reasonable accumulations of household waste in such receptacles for
the monthly fee as set out in §
51.07. Any person disposing of any unusual or unreasonable accumulations of
household waste or heavy waste shall pay the fees as set out in §
51.07.
   (B)   Commercial. The town through its independent contractor will furnish
receptacles to be used by all commercial businesses within the town limits for
the disposal of commercial waste. Each commercial business is responsible for
transporting the solid waste they produce to the receptacles furnished by the
town or for an alternative means of disposal. Each business may dispose of
reasonable accumulations of commercial waste in said receptacles for the
monthly fee as set out in §
51.07. Any persons disposing of any unusual accumulations of commercial waste
or heavy waste shall pay the fees as set out in §
51.07.
   (C)   Rules for disposition.
      (1)   Each person disposing of solid waste in any receptacle furnished by
the town shall make certain that such waste is placed entirely in such
receptacle and in such a manner that such solid waste may not be carried or
deposited by the elements upon any public street, right-of-way, sidewalk,
alley, sewer or any other public place or into any occupied premises within the
town. Such person shall also secure the lid or top to such receptacle after
disposing of such solid waste.
      (2)   Each person transporting solid waste over the streets of the town
shall so operate as to prevent offensive odors escaping therefrom and solid
waste from being blown, dropped or spilled from their vehicles.
      (3)   The removal of wearing, bedding or other refuse from homes or other
places where highly infectious or contagious diseases have prevailed should be
performed under the direction and supervision of the Mayor. Such waste
materials shall not be placed in receptacles for regular collections.
      (4)   Highly flammable or explosive material shall not be placed in
containers for regular collection but shall be disposed of as directed by the
Mayor at the expense of the owner or possessor thereof.
      (5)   The Mayor shall have authority to refuse permission for any heavy
waste or unusual accumulation of household or commercial waste if the disposal
of such in the receptacle furnished by the town would be inappropriate or
unsafe or would overload the receptacle. The Mayor shall have the authority and
discretion to make arrangements for any such heavy waste or unusual
accumulation of household or commercial waste to be picked up by the town or
its independent contractor for a reasonable fee.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 51.07 GARBAGE FEES.
   (A)   Residential. The fees for the disposal of waste material by families
shall be as follows.
      (1)   For reasonable accumulations of household wastes, a monthly fee as
set forth in the utility service regulations (§
50.27), attached to this chapter, as amended from time to time and adopted by
Town Council.
      (2)   For unusual accumulations of household wastes or for heavy waste, a
reasonable fee to be determined by the Mayor at the time such waste is to be
disposed.
   (B)   Commercial. The fees for the disposal of waste material for commercial
businesses shall be as follows.
      (1)   For reasonable accumulations of commercial waste, a monthly fee as
set forth in the utility service regulations (§
50.27), attached to this chapter, as amended from time to time and adopted by
Town Council.
      (2)   For unusual accumulations of commercial waste and heavy waste, a
reasonable fee to be determined by the Mayor at the time such waste is to be
disposed.
   (C)   Delinquency. All accounts shall be considered delinquent if not paid
by the tenth day of each month.
   (D)   Penalty for late payment. If any charges herein prescribed are not
paid on or before the tenth day of the service month to which such charges are
applicable, then a penalty, as determined by a favorable vote of Town Council
members present and voting and reflected as an amendment to the utility service
regulations, shall be added thereto. An additional penalty in the same amount
shall be automatically assessed each month on any unpaid balance.
   (E)   Penalty for bad checks. Checks accepted by the town for the payment of
the monthly fee or any other fees, charges or interest payable under this
chapter, which check is returned for insufficient funds on account for no
account, for forgery or for any other reason shall be subject to an additional
fee, as determined by a majority vote of Town Council members present and
voting and reflected as an amendment to the utility service regulations, to
cover the cost of handling the same.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 97-01, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 51.08 STORING OR SCATTERING SOLID OR HEAVY WASTE.
   (A)   No person shall place any solid or heavy waste within any street,
alley or other public place or upon any private property, whether owned by such
person or not, within the town, except in proper containers for collection or
disposal or under express approval granted by the Mayor or his or her designee,
nor shall any person throw or deposit any solid or heavy waste in any stream or
any other body of water.
   (B)   Any unauthorized accumulation of solid or heavy waste on any premises
is declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited.
   (C)   No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the town
any solid or heavy waste in any manner that may be carried or deposited by the
elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other public
place, or onto any occupied premises within the town. The owner and occupant of
the premises shall be charged with the responsibility to use due diligence and
care to protect the contents of all bags or receptacles for solid or heavy
waste used in connection with such premises from being opened, blown or
scattered by the wind upon, over and across public or private property, and a
failure to so exercise such diligence shall be punishable as provided in this
chapter.
   (D)   No person shall be authorized or allowed to place, cast, scatter,
deposit or otherwise locate any solid or heavy waste of any nature on any
property owned by the town, whether within the town or without, except as may
be permitted in this chapter under the compliance with the ordinances of the
town or rules or regulations of the town or the Mayor.
   (E)   No person shall place or dispose of any solid or heavy waste in any
container upon any property without the effective consent of the owner of such
property.
   (F)   The burning of household waste of any kind in any place within the
town limits is prohibited. The burning of paper, leaves and branches will be
permitted, but must be strictly supervised until the fire is completely
extinguished. Any person leaving the site of a fire still burning is in
violation. It shall be unlawful for any person, within the corporate limits of
the town to knowingly, intentionally, recklessly or with criminal negligence to
burn or cause to be burned any paper, leaves, branches or use of pyrotechnics
when the Mayor and Emergency Management Coordinator and/or Town Council have
declared a burning ban for a specified period of time due to atmospheric
conditions or local circumstances making such fires or use of pyrotechnics
hazardous to the health, safety and general welfare of the public. The public
will be notified of a burning ban by the posting of a notice in the display
case at the mail room.
   (G)   No person shall meddle or tamper with any solid or heavy waste
container or with any solid or heavy waste or in any manner pilfer from such
solid or heavy waste container without the effective consent of the owner
thereof.
   (H)   The storing or keeping of any solid or heavy waste so as to produce an
unsightly or ugly appearance, or which may harbor reptiles or rodents, create a
fire hazard or result in any unsanitary conditions, is declared to be a public
nuisance and is unlawful. Every owner of any premises shall keep said premises
free and clear of solid or heavy waste unless in an appropriate container
provided for the same.
   (I)   No person shall cast, place, deposit or dispose of any type of solid
or heavy waste on the grounds surrounding the solid waste container. If solid
waste container has been temporarily removed for emptying, functioning
improperly or filled to its capacity, said waste shall not be deposited, left
or abandoned at that time. Failure to comply shall be a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 2007-07, passed 8-28-2000) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 WATER SERVICE.
   When a person desires to be supplied water service by the town, an
application for service form shall be filled out and properly executed. Such
application shall constitute a service contract between the customer and the
town and shall continue in effect until canceled by either party. Should the
customer desire to discontinue service, an application for termination of
service form shall be filled out and properly executed. The utility service
will be governed by the utility service regulations as adopted and amended from
time to time by the Town Council.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 51.10 WATER FEES.
   (A)   Rates and fees. Rates and charges shall be made for water service in
the town as set forth in the utility service regulations (§
50.27), attached to this chapter, as amended from time to time and adopted by
Town Council.
   (B)   Delinquency. All accounts shall be considered delinquent if not paid
by the tenth of each service month and are subject to disconnection.
   (C)   Penalty for late payment. If any charges herein prescribed are not
paid on or before the tenth day of the service month to which such charges are
applicable, then a penalty, as determined by a favorable vote of Town Council
members present and voting and reflected as an amendment to the utility service
regulations, shall be added thereto. An additional penalty in the same amount
shall be automatically assessed each month on any unpaid balance greater than
$5.
   (D)   Penalty for bad checks. Checks accepted by the town for the payment of
the monthly fee or any other fees, charges or interest payable under this
chapter, which check is returned for insufficient funds on account, for no
account, for forgery or for any other reason shall be subject to an additional
fee, as determined by a favorable vote of Town Council members present and
voting and reflected as an amendment to the utility service regulations, to
cover the cost of handling the same.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996; Ord. 97-01, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 51.11 WATER WELLS.
   (A)   From and after the effective date hereof, no person shall drill a
water well within the corporate limits of the town, except as hereinafter
provided, or unless such water well is being drilled by a federal, state,
county, municipal government or other political subdivision. No person shall
operate, use, maintain, repair or replace any water well drilled in violation
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Town Council may, upon application, grant a permit for the
drilling of a water well. Any application shall state the name of the
applicant, the location of the well, and the reason for the request, addressing
the facts described below.
      (1)   Any such permit application shall be accompanied by a fee of $25.
      (2)   The Town Council, in its discretion, may grant the permit after
considering the following factors:
         (a)   Whether the applicant has available water from any other source
and/or the quality and quantity of water being provided from such other source;
         (b)   Whether the applicant would suffer undue hardship if the Town
Council did not grant the permit;
         (c)   The effect of granting such permit on the town water supply;
         (d)   Whether the applicant demonstrates that such water well will
comply with all applicable federal, state, county and municipal laws and
regulations;
         (e)   Whether the granting of such permit is in the best interest of
the inhabitants of the town; and
         (f)   Whether the applicant will use such water for household and
personal consumption or some other use.
   (C)   If the Town Council grants the permit as provided herein, it may place
such reasonable conditions, regulations, requirements and restrictions on such
permit as it deems appropriate for the protection of the public.
   (D)   Households currently receiving their water supply from a water well
shall not be compelled to subscribe to the town’s water system; however, should
stated water well cease to function, the above stated conditions apply.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12 BILLING AND PARTIAL PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The water charge and garbage fee will be jointly billed on a monthly
basis. Utility bills will be mailed to customers on or as soon after the
twentieth of the month as possible.
   (B)   The current bill is due and payable on the first day of the service
month. If, and when, partial payments are submitted, the payment will be first
applied toward the garbage fee and the penalty fee, if any, and the remainder
to the water charge.
   (C)   Water service is subject to disconnection for non-payment. Households
with a private water well will be billed monthly on garbage fees and are
subject to all provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996)
§ 51.13 THEFT OF SERVICE.
   No person or owner shall divert in any manner the utility system of the town
for the use of their habitation or commercial business, without first entering
into a contract with the town. No person or owner shall in any manner damage
the utility system of the town. Any violation of this chapter constitutes theft
of service and damage to the utility system.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996) Penalty, see 51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation or failure to comply with any provision of this chapter
is a misdemeanor and is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. Any day any
violation or failure to comply with this chapter continues or occurs shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to filing a complaint against any person for a violation
of this chapter in the Municipal Court of the town, the municipality hereby
expressly reserves the right and shall have the right to file a civil action in
any court of competent jurisdiction under the laws of this state seeking to
have any act or omission of any person which are contrary to the provisions of
this chapter prohibited or corrected by writ of injunction, or seeking to
recover damages therefor or both.
(Ord. 96-02, passed 4-1-1996)
CHAPTER 52: PRIVATE SEPTIC SYSTEM
Section
   
52.01   Short title
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Installation requirements
   
52.04   Compliance
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Private Septic System
Ordinance” of the town.
(Ord. 86-75, passed 7-22-1986)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABSORPTION FIELDS. Any system that utilizes the soil for absorbing, such as
trenches or collection areas.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE FACILITY. Facilities provided to serve only one individual
household, or multiple unit residential structures or commercial
establishments.
   SEPTIC TANKS. Water-tight covered receptacle designed and constructed to
receive the discharge of sewage.
   SEWAGE. Any waste water containing animal or vegetable matter in solution
Including liquids containing chemicals, domestic waste water and laundry waste.
   STRUCTURE. Includes any occupied buildings, mobile homes and houses.
(Ord. 86-75, passed 7-22-1986)
§ 52.03 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A permit must be obtained from the Town Secretary for construction of
a private sewage facility. At time of application the person applying for
permit will pay a permit fee. The fee will be set by the Town Council.
   (B)   Absorption field shall be constructed in compliance with
specifications of the State Department of Public Health.
   (C)   The system must be inspected by the Building Inspector before
covering.
   (D)   Minimum lot size requirement is 100 feet by 100 feet, or multiple lots
having more than 10,000 square feet per occupied, structure.
   (E)   Absorption fields will be a minimum of 150 feet in sandy soil and 250
feet in other soil types. Tank minimum shall be 750 gallons per occupied
structure.
(Ord. 86-75, passed 7-22-1986)
§ 52.04 COMPLIANCE.
   No person may construct a private septic system except in compliance with
this chapter.
(Ord. 86-75, passed 7-22-1986) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine not exceeding $200. Each and every
day a violation continues or occurs is a separate offense.
(Ord. 86-75, passed 7-22-1986)
CHAPTER 53: DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
Section
   
53.01   Policy, purpose, intent
   
53.02   Public involvement
   
53.03   Public education
   
53.04   Coordination with regional water planning groups
   
53.05   Application
   
53.06   Definitions
   
53.07   Implementation of Drought Contingency Plan
   
53.08   Drought condition operations
   
53.09   System limitation operations
   
53.10   Enforcement
   
53.11   Variances
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 POLICY, PURPOSE, INTENT.
   In order to conserve the available water supply and protect the integrity of
water supply facilities, with particular regard to domestic water use,
sanitation and fire protection, and to protect and preserve public health,
welfare and safety and minimize the adverse impacts of water supply shortage or
other water supply emergency conditions, the town hereby adopts the following
regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of water.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.02 PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT.
   The town by means of public notice in the newspaper and direct mail to
wholesale customers provided opportunity for customers to provide input into
the preparation of this Plan.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.03 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   (A)   The town will periodically provide the public with information about
the Plan, including information about the conditions under which each stage of
this plan is to be initiated or terminated and the drought response measures to
be implemented in each stage.
   (B)   This information will be provided by means of press releases, water
bill inserts or public posting from the town.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.04 COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUPS.
   The service area of the town is located within Regional Water Planning Area
C. The town has provided a copy of this plan to Region C Water Planning Group.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.05 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this plan shall apply to all persons, customers and
property utilizing water provided by the town. The terms “persons” and
“customer”, as used in the Plan include individuals, corporations,
partnerships, associations and all other legal entities.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water used for ornamental or decorative purposes such
as fountains, reflecting pools and water gardens.
   COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water use which is integral to the
operations of commercial and non-profit establishments and governmental
entities such as retail establishments, hotels and motels, restaurants and
office buildings.
   CONSERVATION. The practices, techniques and technologies that reduce the
consumption of water, reduce the loss or waste of water, improve the efficiency
in the use of water or increase the recycling and reuse of water so that a
supply is conserved and made available for future or alternative use.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company or organization using water supplied by the
town.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water used for personal needs or for household or
sanitary purposes such as drinking, bathing, cooking, sanitation or for
cleaning a residence, business, industry or institution.
   INDUSTRIAL WATER USE. The use of water in processes designed to convert
materials of lower value into forms having greater usability and value.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION USE. Water used for the irrigation and maintenance of
landscaped areas, whether publicly or privately owned, including residential
and commercial lawns, gardens, golf courses, parks and rights-of-way and
medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water uses that are not essential or required for
the protection of public, health, safety and welfare.
   WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS. Customers purchasing water from the Town of Holiday
Lakes and re-distributing it for a fee to their own customers.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.07 IMPLEMENTATION OF DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   When conditions defined by the Drought Contingency Plan are present,
the Mayor, or his or her designee, in consultation with the Town Council, may
authorize drought condition operations in the entire town water service area or
for a limited area affected by equipment failure or limited capacity.
   (B)   Once the authorization has been given, operations shall continue under
the Drought Contingency Plan, with progression from one stage to another as
determined by the appropriate trigger conditions executed by the Mayor.
   (C)   Public notification of the initiation or termination of drought
response stages shall be by means of direct mail, newspaper or other media
available.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.08 DROUGHT CONDITION OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Stage 1 - Mild Drought Conditions.
      (1)   Requirement for initiation. Customers shall be requested to
voluntarily conserve water and adhere to the prescribed restrictions on certain
water uses for Stage 1 of this plan when, the Mayor advises that mild drought
conditions exist and requests that the town initiate the appropriate stage of
the Drought Contingency Plan.
      (2)   Drought responses.
         (a)   Goal. Achieve a voluntary 10% reduction in daily water demand.
         (b)   Voluntary water use restrictions.
            1.   Customers are requested to voluntarily limit the irrigation of
landscaped areas. Mondays/Wednesdays and Fridays between the hours 12:01 a.m.
to 12:01 p.m. and/or 8:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight on designated watering days.
            2.   Use of water for the irrigation of medians, rights-of-way, and
common areas maintained by home owners associations, management groups or the
town is prohibited except on Wednesdays and Saturdays between hours 12:01 a.m.
to 12:00 p.m. and/or 8:00 p.m. to 12:00 midnight on designated watering days.
            3.   All operations of the town shall adhere to water use
restrictions prescribed for in Stage 2 of this plan.
            4.   The town wholesale customers are notified of the start of
drought condition operations, so they may implement their own individual Retail
Water Supplier Drought Contingency Plan.
            5.   Water customers are requested to practice water conservation
and to minimize or discontinue water use for non-essential purposes.
      (3)   Requirements for termination. Stage 1 of this plan may be rescinded
when notification is received from the Mayor, that triggering conditions for
stage 1 have ceased.
   (B)   Stage 2 - Moderate Drought Conditions.
      (1)   Requirement for initiation. Customers shall be required to comply
with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water uses for
Stage 2 of this plan when, notification is received from the Mayor that
moderate drought conditions exist and requests that the town initiate the
appropriate stage of the Drought Contingency Plan.
      (2)   Drought responses.
         (a)   Goal. Achieve a 20% reduction in daily water demand.
         (b)   Supply management measures. Discontinue flushing water mains,
reduce irrigation of public landscaped areas, limit construction line filling
and blowing off for disinfecting purposes.
         (c)   Water use restrictions. Under threat of penalty for violation,
the following water use shall apply to all customers.
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas with hose-end sprinklers or
automatic irrigation shall be limited to Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays only,
between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight on designated water days;
however, irrigation of landscaped areas is permitted at anytime if it is by
means of hand-held hose, a faucet filled bucket or watering can of five gallons
or less, or drip irrigation system.
            2.   Use of water to wash motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except on designated watering days
between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m. Such washing when allowed shall be
done with a hand-held bucket or a hand-held hose equipped with a positive
shutoff nozzle for quick rinses. Vehicle washing may be done at any time on the
immediate premises of a commercial car wash or commercial service station.
Further, such washing may be exempted from these regulations if the health,
safety and welfare of the public are contingent upon frequent vehicle
cleansing, such as garbage trucks and vehicles used to transport food and
perishables.
            3.   Use of water to fill, refill or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools, wading pools or Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited except on
designated watering days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
            4.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited, except when necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
            5.   Use of water from hydrants shall be limited to firefighting,
related activities or other activities necessary to maintain public health,
safety and welfare. Water for construction purposes from designated fire
hydrants, may be used by obtaining special permit issued by the Mayor and/or
the town.
            6.   Use of water for the irrigation of medians, rights-of-way and
common areas maintained by home owner’s associations, management groups or the
town is prohibited except on Sundays between hours 12:01 a.m. to 3:00 a.m.
            7.   Wholesale customers will be advised to continue all relevant
actions from previous stages including appropriate public water use
restrictions and to implement the next stage of their own individual Retail
Water Supplier Drought Contingency Plan.
            8.   The Mayor shall establish pro rata allocations on all
wholesale customers by reducing water available at each delivery point by a
uniform percentage based on the current annual maximum demand for each entity.
If a water user’s billing history is less than one year, the average for the
period for which there is a record shall be used. Once pro rata allocations are
in effect, water deliveries to each water user shall be limited to the
allocation. The Mayor and/or the town shall provide notice by certified mail to
each affected water user informing him or her of his or her individual maximum
water usage allocation and shall notify the news media and the Executive
Director of the State Natural Resource Conservation Commission upon initiation
of pro rata water allocation.
            9.   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to its
patrons except when requested.
            10.   The following uses of water are defined as non-essential and
are prohibited:
               a.   Wash down of sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots,
tennis courts or other hard-surfaced areas;
               b.   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for
purposes other than immediate fire protection;
               c.   Use of water for dust control;
               d.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate
in any gutter or street; and
               e.   Failures to repair controllable leak(s) within a reasonable
period, as determined by the Mayor and/or Town Council.
      (3)   Requirements for termination. Stage 2 of this plan may be rescinded
when notification is received from the Mayor, that triggering conditions for
Stage 2 have ceased. Upon termination of Stage 2, Stage 1 becomes operative.
   (C)   Stage 3 - Severe Drought Conditions.
      (1)   Requirement for initiation. Customers shall be required to comply
with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water uses for
Stage 3 of this plan when, notification is received from the Mayor that severe
drought conditions exist and requests that the town initiate the appropriate
stage of the Drought Contingency Plan.
      (2)   Drought responses.
         (a)   Goal. Achieve a 30% reduction in daily water demand.
         (b)   Supply management measures. Discontinue flushing water mains,
prohibit irrigation of public landscaped areas, prohibit construction line
filling and blowing off for disinfecting purposes.
         (c)   Water use restrictions. All requirements of Stage 2 shall remain
in effect during Stage 3, except:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to a
designated watering day Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays for residential and
commercial customers. By means of hand-held hoses, hand-held buckets, drip
irrigation or permanently installed automatic sprinkler system only. The use of
hose-end sprinklers is prohibited at all times.
            2.   The use of water for construction purposes from designated
fire hydrants under special permit is discontinued.
            3.   Wholesale customers will be advised to continue all relevant
actions from previous stages including appropriate public water use
restrictions and to implement the next stage of their own individual Retail
Water Supplier Drought Contingency Plan.
      (3)   Requirements for termination. Stage 3 of this plan may be rescinded
when notification is received from the Mayor, that triggering conditions for
stage 3 have ceased. Upon termination of Stage 3, Stage 2 becomes operative.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.09 SYSTEM LIMITATION OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Stage 1 - Mild Limitations.
      (1)   Requirement for initiation. Mild limitation operations are
initiated when, total daily water demand equals or exceeds 90% of the town’s
firm pumping capacity or of any delivery system of the town to specific water
users for three consecutive days or 95% of capacity on a single day or if
notification is received from the Mayor, that mild limitations exist in their
system.
      (2)   Limitation responses. The same steps will be taken for the water
users affected as outlined in §
53.08(A)(2).
   (B)   Stage 2 - Moderate Limitations.
      (1)   Requirement for initiation. Moderate limitation operations are
initiated when, total daily water demand equals or exceeds 95% of the town’s
firm pumping capacity or of any delivery system of the town to specific water
users for three consecutive days or 100% of capacity on a single day or if
notification is received from the Mayor, that moderate limitations exist in
their system.
      (2)   Limitation responses. The same steps will be taken for the water
users affected as outlined in §
53.08(B)(2).
   (C)   Stage 3 - Severe Limitations.
      (1)   Requirement for initiation. Severe limitation operations are
initiated when, total daily water demand equals or exceeds 100% of the town’s
firm pumping capacity or of any delivery system of the town to specific water
users for three consecutive days or if notification is received from the Mayor,
that severe limitations exist in their system.
      (2)   Limitation responses. The same steps will be taken for the water
users affected as outlined in §
53.08(C)(2).
   (D)   Stage 4 - Critical Emergency Conditions.
      (1)   Requirement for initiation. Critical emergency conditions may be
triggered by any number of situations including natural disasters, massive
power outages, massive equipment or facility failures, public water supply
contamination or if notification is received from the Mayor, that critical
emergency conditions exist in their system.
      (2)   Limitation responses. The Mayor, in consultation with the Town
Council will coordinate actions necessary to prohibit all uses of the public
water supply, except in emergency cases, until further notice that critical
conditions have been resolved.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water from the
town for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, governmental or any
other purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of this plan, or in an
amount excessive of that permitted by the drought or limitation response stage
in effect at the time pursuant to action taken by the Mayor, or his or her
designee, in accordance with provisions of this plan.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may, in writing, grant a
temporary variance for water uses otherwise prohibited under this plan if:
      (2)   It is determined that failure to grant such variance would cause an
emergency condition adversely affecting the health, sanitation or fire
protection for the public or the person requesting such variance and if one or
more of the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Compliance with this plan cannot be technically accomplished
during the duration of the water supply shortage or other condition for which
the plan is in effect; and
         (b)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the
same level of reduction in water use.
   (B)   (1)   Persons requesting an exemption from the provisions of this
chapter shall file a petition for the variance with the town within five days
after this plan or a particular drought or limitation response stage has been
invoked.
      (2)   All petitions for variances shall be reviewed by the Mayor, or his
or her designee, and shall include the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the petitioners;
         (b)   Purpose of water use;
         (c)   Specific provision(s) of this plan from which the petitioner is
requesting relief;
         (d)   Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of this plan
adversely affects the petitioner or what damage or harm will occur to the
petitioner or others if petitioner complies with this chapter;
         (e)   Description of the relief requested;
         (f)   Period of time for which variance is sought;
         (g)   Alternative water use restrictions or other measures the
petitioner is taking or proposes to take to meet the intent of this plan and
the compliance date; and
         (h)   Other pertinent information.
   (C)   Variances granted by the town shall be subject to the following
conditions, unless waived or modified by the Mayor or his or her designee.
      (1)   Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.
      (2)   Variances granted shall expire when this plan is no longer in
effect, unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this plan is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500. Each day that one or
more of the provisions of this plan is violated shall constitute a separate
offense. If a person is convicted of three or more distinct violations of this
plan, the Town Council shall, upon due notice to the customer, be authorized to
discontinue water service to the premises where such violations occur. Services
discontinued under such circumstances shall be restored only upon payment of a
reconnection charge as established in the Utility Service Regulations and any
other costs incurred by the town in discontinuing service. In addition,
suitable assurance must be given to the Mayor that the same action shall not be
repeated while this plan is in effect. Compliance with this plan may also be
sought through injunctive relief in the District Court.
   (B)   Any person, including a person classified as a water customer of the
town, in apparent control of the property where a violation occurs or
originates shall be presumed to be the violator, and proof that the violation
occurred on the person’s property shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the person in apparent control of the property committed the violation.
But any such person shall have the right to show that he or she did not commit
the violation. Parents shall be presumed to be responsible for violations of
their minor children and proof that a violation committed by a child, occurred
on property within the parent’s control shall constitute a rebuttable
presumption that the parent committed the violation. But any such parent may be
excused if he or she proves that he or she had previously directed the child
not to use water as it was used in violation of this plan and that the parent
could not have reasonably known of such violation.
   (C)   Any employee of the town, law or ordinance enforcement officer, or
other town employee designated by the Mayor and/or Town Council, may issue a
citation to a person he or she reasonably believes to be in violation of this
chapter. The citation shall be prepared in duplicate and shall contain the name
and address of the alleged violator. If known, the offense charged, and shall
direct him or her to appear in the Municipal Court, on the date shown on the
citation for which date shall not be less than three days or more than five
days from the date the citation was issued. The alleged violator shall be
served a copy of the violation.
   (D)   Service of the citation shall be complete upon delivery of the
citation to the alleged violator, to an agent or employee of a violator, or to
a person over 16 years of age who is a member of the violator’s immediate
family or is a resident of the violator’s residence. The alleged violator shall
appear in Municipal Court to enter a plea of guilty or not guilty for the
violation of this plan. If the alleged violator fails to appear in Municipal
Court, a warrant for his or her arrest may be issued. A summons to appear may
be issued in lieu of an arrest warrant These cases shall be expedited and given
preferential setting in Municipal Court before all other cases.
(Ord. 2000-09, passed 9-18-2000)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRUCKS, TRUCK-TRACTORS
      
72.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Short title
   
70.02   Purpose; adoption of codes
   
70.03   Definitions; rules of construction and procedure
   
70.04   Erection of speed limit signs and traffic-control devices
Speed of Vehicle
   
70.10   Findings of fact
Traffic Control Devices
   
70.15   Stop intersection designated and signs authorized
   
70.16   Yield intersections designated and signs authorized
   
70.17   Speed restricted curve intersections
Divided Roadways
   
70.25   Divided streets
Vehicle Requirements and Exclusions
   
70.30   Vehicle requirements and exclusions
Public Street Names
   
70.35   Public street names
 
   
70.99   Prohibited acts and penalties; continuing violations
§ 70.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This title shall be known and may be cited as the “Traffic and Street
Ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 3-30-1982; Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 70.02 PURPOSE; ADOPTION OF CODES.
   (A)   The town does hereby adopt the Texas Local Government Code (LGC) and
the Texas Manual of Traffic Control Devices, as Authorized in Title 43 of the
Texas Administrative Code (TAC) Chapter 25.1.
   (B)   The purpose of this title is to adopt regulations applicable to all
persons, vehicles, bicycles and pedestrians using the public streets and
highways within the town, as permitted by the Local Government Code, which is
hereby adopted as a part hereof and made applicable to all persons, vehicles,
bicycles and pedestrians within the town, as if set forth at this point in
full.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 3-30-1982; Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 70.03 DEFINITIONS; RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this title, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      TOWN. The Town of Holiday Lakes, in Brazoria County, Texas.
   (B)   The definitions set forth in the Local Government Code are hereby
incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof as if copied in full at
this point in this title.
   (C)   When required by the context, in the construction of this title the
singular shall include the plural number and conversely the masculine shall
include the feminine and neuter genders and the use of a word in one tense
shall be construed to include any other tenses of the same word.
   (D)   In any prosecution in the Municipal Court of the town or any other
court of competent jurisdiction, the complaint charging the violation of this
title need not negative any exception or affirmative defense but the existence
of the same may be raised in any such prosecution by any defendant by way of
defense.
   (E)   Any action tried in the Municipal Court of the town or any other court
of competent jurisdiction, proof of the existence of any speed limit sign on or
along side any public street within the corporate limits of the town shall
constitute prima facie proof of all facts necessary to establish the proper and
lawful designation of the speed limit thereon stated at such place and the
proper and lawful installation of such sign by competent authority.
   (F)   Any action tried in the Municipal Court of the town or any other court
of competent jurisdiction, proof of the existence of any traffic-control device
or any traffic-control signal, as those terms are defined in the Texas Manual
of Traffic Control Devices, and Authorized in Title 43 TAC Ch. 25.1, on or
alongside any street in the town shall constitute prima facie proof of all
facts necessary to establish the proper and lawful installation of such device
or signal at such place by competent jurisdiction.
   (G)   Prima facie proof herein provided for may be rebutted by any party to
any action tried in the Municipal Court of the town or any other court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 3-30-1982; Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 70.04 ERECTION OF SPEED LIMIT SIGNS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   As soon as practical after the effective date of this title or any amendment
hereto setting the prima facie speed limit or authorizing the erection of a
traffic-control device, or both, the Mayor of the town is authorized to cause
appropriate signs giving notice of such speed limits as are set by this title,
or any amendment hereto, and to cause such traffic-control devices as are
authorized by this title, or any amendment hereto, to be erected at all
appropriate or designated locations, respectively.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 3-30-1982; Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
SPEED OF VEHICLE
§ 70.10 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the prima facie speed limit
for vehicles traveling in any direction upon any improved (paved) public street
within the corporate limits of the town is hereby fixed at 30 miles per hour,
and any gravel or unimproved street within the corporate limits of the town is
hereby fixed at 20 miles per hour.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.15 STOP INTERSECTION DESIGNATED AND SIGNS AUTHORIZED.
   As permitted by Title 43 TAC Ch. 25.1, the Town Council of the town hereby
designates as stop intersections and authorizes the erection of stop signs
conforming to the requirements of the Texas Manual of Traffic Control Devices,
at the following designated entrances thereto:
   (A)   On Smilie Road, at its intersection with County Road 30 North,
regulating traffic off Smilie Road onto County Road Thirty North (CR 30N).
   (B)   On Creekside Drive, at its intersection with County Road Thirty North
(CR 30N), regulating traffic off Creekside Drive onto County Road Thirty North
(CR 30N).
   (C)   On Western Way, at its intersection with Creekside Drive, regulating
traffic off Western Way onto Creekside Drive.
   (D)   On Western Way, at its intersection with South Lake Drive, regulating
traffic off of Western Way onto South Lake Drive.
   (E)   On Myles Lane, at its intersection with Creekside Drive, regulating
traffic off Myles Lane onto Creekside Drive.
   (F)   On Eastern Way, at its intersection with East Texas Avenue, regulating
traffic off Eastern Way onto East Texas Avenue.
   (G)   On East Texas Avenue, at its intersection with North Texas Avenue,
regulating traffic off East Texas Avenue onto North Texas Avenue.
   (H)   On South Austin Drive, at its intersection with North Texas Avenue,
regulating traffic off South Austin Drive onto North Texas Avenue.
   (I)   On North Austin Drive, at its intersection with North Texas Avenue,
regulating traffic off North Austin Drive onto North Texas Avenue.
   (J)   On Fairbanks Avenue, at its intersection with North Texas Avenue and
North Lake Drive, regulating traffic off Fairbanks Avenue onto North Texas
Avenue and/or North Lake Drive.
   (K)   On Fairbanks Avenue, at its intersection with Alaska Avenue,
regulating traffic both eastbound and westbound on Fairbanks Avenue.
   (L)   On Fairbanks Avenue, at its intersection with Creekside Drive,
regulating traffic off Fairbanks Avenue onto Creekside Drive.
   (M)   On Nome Lane, at its intersection with Creekside Drive, regulating
traffic off Nome Lane onto Creekside Drive.
   (N)   On Nome Lane, at its intersection with Igloo Lane, regulating traffic
both East and West bound on Nome Lane.
   (O)   On Igloo Lane, at its intersection with Creekside Drive, regulating
traffic off Igloo Lane onto Creekside Drive.
   (P)   On Spur, at its intersection with Creekside Drive, regulating traffic
off Spur onto Creekside Drive.
   (Q)   On Duffy Lane, at its intersection with North Sunset Boulevard and
Aniak Drive, regulating traffic off Duffy Lane onto North Sunset Boulevard and/
or Aniak Drive.
   (R)   On Duffy Lane, at its intersection with O'Malley Lane and Artic Road,
regulating traffic eastbound on Duffy Lane.
   (S)   On Duffy Lane, at its intersection with Artic Road, regulating traffic
westbound on Duffy Lane.
   (T)   On Artic Road, at its intersection with North Lake Drive and Kodiak
Drive, regulating traffic off Artic Road onto North Lake Drive and/or Kodiak
Drive.
   (U)   On Marshall Avenue, at its intersection with Artic Road, regulating
traffic both eastbound and westbound on Marshall Avenue.
   (V)   On Kodiak Drive, at its intersection with North Lake Drive and Artic
Road, regulating traffic off Kodiak Drive onto North Lake Drive and/or Artic
Road.
   (W)   On Polar Avenue, at its intersection with Sitka Drive, regulating
traffic both northbound and southbound on Polar Avenue.
   (X)   On Polar Avenue, at its intersection with Penguin Lane, regulating
traffic both northbound and southbound on Polar Avenue.
   (Y)   On Polar Avenue, at its intersection with Kodiak Drive, regulating
traffic both northbound and southbound on Polar Avenue.
   (Z)   On Polar Avenue, at its intersection with Marshall Avenue, regulating
traffic off Polar Avenue onto Marshall Avenue.
   (AA)   On Alaska Avenue, at its intersection with Creekside Drive,
regulating traffic off Alaska Avenue onto Creekside Drive.
   (BB)   On O'Malley Lane, at its intersection with Kelly Lane, regulating
traffic off O'Malley Lane onto Kelly Lane.
   (CC)   On Spur, at its intersection with Aniak Drive, regulating traffic off
Spur onto Aniak Drive.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 70.16 YIELD INTERSECTIONS DESIGNATED AND SIGNS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   As, permitted by Local Government Code and the Transportation Code,
the Town Council hereby designates as yield intersections and authorizes the
erection of yield signs conforming to the requirements of the Texas Manual of
Traffic Control Devices at the following intersections:
      (1)   On Creekside Drive at its intersection with North Texas Avenue,
regulating traffic southbound on Creekside Drive.
      (2)   On Myles Lane at its intersection with East Texas Avenue and
Eastern Way, regulating traffic off Myles Lane onto East Texas Avenue and/or
Eastern Way.
      (3)   On South Sunset Boulevard at its intersection with North Sunset
Boulevard, regulating traffic off South Sunset Boulevard onto North Sunset
Boulevard.
   (B)   Any roadway intersecting and not crossing another roadway shall be
designated a yield intersection, even if not posted as such.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 70.17 SPEED RESTRICTED CURVE INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   As permitted by Local Government Code and the Transportation Code, the
Town Council hereby designates as speed restricted intersections and authorizes
the erection of speed restricted curve signs conforming to the requirements of
the Texas Manual of Traffic Control Devices at the following intersections.
   (B)   A Ten Miles Per Hour (10 mph) Curve sign, to be placed at the
intersection of Creekside Drive and Kelly Lane, causing traffic to stop on both
roadways.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
DIVIDED ROADWAYS
§ 70.25 DIVIDED STREETS.
   (A)   That portion of Creekside Drive located within 300 feet of County Road
Thirty North (CR 30N), is hereby divided into two roadways and the Mayor is
hereby instructed to cause to be erected in the intervening space a physical
barrier or section containing another clearly marked obstruction so constructed
as to impede vehicular traffic. Every vehicle driven upon the above-mentioned
portion of Creekside Drive in a northerly direction shall be driven upon the
most easterly side of said roadway and all vehicular traffic traveling in a
southerly direction shall be driven upon the most westerly side of said
roadway.
   (B)   No vehicle shall be driven over, across or within any dividing space,
barrier or section established pursuant to the provisions of division (A) of
this section.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS AND EXCLUSIONS
§ 70.30 VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   All vehicles operated upon the roads of the town must meet state
requirements. They must be licensed, registered, and insured.
   (B)   ATV's (four-wheelers) are not allowed to be operated upon public
roadways and must be operated only upon private property.
   (C)   RTV's (Gator, Kubota) are allowed provided they meet State Law
requirements and are operated by a licensed driver, only. Under no condition
shall an unlicensed person or a minor be allowed to operate any type of vehicle
(s) upon town roads.
   (D)   Under no circumstances may a vehicle that operates upon tracks be
allowed to be operated upon a public road way. They shall be delivered to the
job site, by trailer, and unloaded upon private property, and shall be removed
from the property by trailer. Any person found operating a tracked vehicle upon
a public roadway shall be liable for damages to said roadway and cited for the
violation.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
PUBLIC STREET NAMES
§ 70.35 PUBLIC STREET NAMES.
   The names of existing public streets and roads within the corporate limits
of the town shall be those names typed, written, or printed on the map or plat
marked Exhibit "A" attached to Ordinance 2017-05.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 8-15-2017)
§ 70.99 PROHIBITED ACTS AND PENALTIES; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter. Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for violating any provision of
this chapter (or of the Local Government Code or the Transportation Code) for
which another penalty is not provided or cannot be imposed under the Local
Government Code or the Transportation Code or any other law of the State of
Texas shall be punished by a fine of not less than one dollar nor more than
$200; and each day such violation continues or occurs shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 3-30-1982; Ord. 99-05, passed 6-21-1999; Ord. 2017-05,
passed 8-15-2017)
CHAPTER 71: TRUCKS, TRUCK-TRACTORS
Section
   
71.01   Short title
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Operation of trucks, truck-tractors and other self-propelled vehicles
upon public street prohibited
   
71.04   Exception to operation of trucks, truck-tractor and other self-
propelled vehicles
   
71.05   Signs
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Truck Regulation
Ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE. Has the meaning assigned to it in Tex. Penal Code, §
2.04. In any prosecution hereunder in the Municipal Court of the town, or any
other court of competent jurisdiction, the complaint charging a violation of
this chapter need not negate the existence of any AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE contained
herein, but the existence of the same may be raised by the defendant in such
prosecution by way of defense.
   CONSUMER GOODS. Any movable personal property used or intended to be used
primarily for personal, family or household purposes.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every self-propelled device in, upon or by which any person
or property is or may be transported, but does not include any device moved by
human power to which no motor is attached or used exclusively upon stationary
rails or tracks.
   OTHER SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle, as herein defined, other than
a truck, truck-tractor or any motor vehicle designed for carrying passengers
when actually in use for the transportation of persons.
   SEMI-TRAILER. Vehicles of the trailer type so designed or used in
conjunction with a motor vehicle that some part of its own weight and that of
its load rests upon or is carried by another vehicle. The term SEMI-TRAILER
means vehicles of the trailer type having a gross weight in excess of 4,000
pounds so designed or used in conjunction with a motor vehicle that some part
of its own weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property, with a manufacturer’s rated carrying capacity in
excess of 2,000 pounds, but does not include those trucks having a smaller
capacity and commonly known as pickup trucks, panel delivery trucks and carry-
all trucks.
   TRUCK-TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed or used primarily for drawing
other vehicles, and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 71.03 OPERATION OF TRUCKS, TRUCK-TRACTORS AND OTHER SELF-PROPELLED VEHICLES
UPON PUBLIC STREET PROHIBITED.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
the driver or operator of any truck, truck-tractor or other self-propelled
vehicle to drive or operate the same upon any public street within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 3-21-2005) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 EXCEPTION TO OPERATION OF TRUCKS, TRUCK-TRACTOR AND OTHER SELF-
PROPELLED VEHICLES.
   It is an affirmative defense to the prosecution order of §
71.03 if the motor vehicle in question:
   (A)   Is one of which the town is the owner;
   (B)   Is a truck or truck-tractor which is being driven to or from any
premises in the town, to which any consumer goods or any standard sized
delivery of any dirt, sand, gravel transported thereon or thereby is being or
has been delivered as set out by the bill of lading, the route being taken by
the driver thereof is the most practical, direct route to such premises, or
follows a map drawn by the owner of said property, and said vehicles depart
premises with the intent of leaving the town upon completion of said delivery;
   (C)   Is one which, with the consent of the Town Council is actually engaged
in the construction, reconstruction, repair or maintenance of the street on
which it is being driven or operated, or is traveling to or from any location
for such purpose and the route being taken by the driver or operator thereof is
the most practical, direct route to such location;
   (D)   Is one which comes within the definition of “other self-propelled
vehicle” contained in §
71.02 and has a gross vehicle weight of 15,000 pounds or less;
   (E)   Is one which is owned by a person, association or corporation to whom
a franchise has been heretofore or is hereafter granted by the Town Council,
and the motor vehicle in question is being used in connection with the business
authorized by such franchise, such franchise has not expired or been revoked or
terminated, and the franchise is not delinquent in the payment of franchise tax
or any other taxes, assessments or lawful charges owed to said town;
   (F)   Is a school bus or church bus; or
   (G)   Is used for transportation to and from the residence and requires a
permit.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 71.05 SIGNS.
   The Mayor of the town is hereby authorized and directed to cause appropriate
signs conforming to the manual and specifications for uniform traffic control
devices as adopted by the State Highway Commission, giving notice of the
provisions of §
71.03, such signs to be erected at appropriate locations within said town;
providing, however, that the absence of any such sign or the failure of any
driver or operator to see such sign shall not be a defense in any prosecution
under the provisions of §
71.03.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction therefor punished by a fine not to exceed $500. Each and every day
any such violation occurs or continues to occur shall constitute a separate
offense. Vehicle with lugs prohibited.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 3-21-2005)
CHAPTER 72: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop intersections
   
III.   Yield intersections
   
IV.   Curve signs
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the prima facie speed limit
for vehicles traveling in any direction upon any improved (paved) public street
within the corporate limits of the town is hereby fixed at 30 miles per hour,
and any unimproved or gravel street within the corporate limits of the town is
hereby fixed at 20 miles per hour.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 3-30-1982; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-30-1982; Ord. 89-110,
passed 6-20-1989; Ord. 94-01, passed 2-21-1994; Ord. 99-05, passed 6-21-1999;
Ord. 2007-011, passed 7-17-2007)
SCHEDULE II. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   As permitted by Tex. Administrative Code, Title 43, Chapter 25.1, the Town
Council hereby designates as stop intersections and authorizes the erection of
stop signs conforming to the requirements of the Texas Manual of Traffic
Control Devices, at the following designated entrances thereto:
   (A)   On Creekside Drive, at its intersection with County Road Thirty North
(CR 30N), regulating traffic off Creekside Drive onto County Road Thirty North
(CR 30N);
   (B)   On Western Way, at its intersection with Creekside Drive, regulating
traffic off Western Way onto Creekside Drive;
   (C)   On Myles Lane, at its intersection with Creekside Drive, regulating
traffic off Myles Lane onto Creekside Drive;
   (D)   On South Austin Drive, at its intersection with North Texas Avenue,
regulating traffic off South Austin Drive onto North Texas Avenue;
   (E)   On North Austin Drive, at its intersection with North Texas Avenue,
regulating traffic off North Austin Drive onto North Texas Avenue;
   (F)   On Fairbanks Avenue, at its intersection with North Texas Avenue and
North Lake Drive, regulating traffic off Fairbanks Avenue onto North Texas
Avenue and/or North Lake Drive;
   (G)   On Duffy Lane, eastbound at its intersection with O’Malley Lane and
Artie Road, regulating traffic on Duffy Lane;
   (H)   On Duffy Lane, westbound at its intersection with Artic Road,
regulating traffic on Duffy Lane;
   (I)   On Artic Road, at its intersection with North Lake Drive and Kodiak
Drive, regulating traffic off Artic Road onto North Lake Drive and/or Kodiak
Drive;
   (J)   On Kodiak Drive, at its intersection with North Lake Drive and Artic
Road, regulating traffic off Kodiak Drive onto North Lake Drive and/or Artic
Road; and
   (K)   On North Lake Drive at its southbound intersection with Kodiak Drive,
regulating traffic on North Lake Drive.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 3-30-1982; Ord. 82-20, passed 12-30-1982; Ord. 87-92,
passed 11-17-1987)
SCHEDULE III. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   As permitted by Tex. Local Gov’t Code and the Tex. Transportation Code, the
Town Council hereby designates as yield intersections and authorizes the
erection of yield signs conforming to the requirements of the Texas Manual of
Traffic Control Devices at the following intersections:
   (A)   On Creekside Drive at its intersection with North Texas Avenue,
regulating traffic southbound on Creekside Drive; and
   (B)   On North Texas Avenue at its intersection with Fairbanks Drive and
Lake Drive, regulating traffic on North Texas Avenue.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 3-30-1982; Ord. 87-92, passed 11-17-1987)
SCHEDULE IV. CURVE SIGNS.
   Curve signs designated and signs authorized:
   (A)   Creekside Drive (facing south) and Kelly Lane (facing east)
intersections; and
   (B)   O’Malley Lane (facing north) and Artic Road (facing south)
intersections.
(Ord. 87-92, passed 11-17-1987)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   No parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   No parking on perimeter road signs designated and signs authorized:
   (A)   Creekside Drive by the town post office;
   (B)   Kelly Lane at Shaughnesey Lane;
   (C)   North Lake Drive at Second Street;
   (D)   Creekside Drive at Nome Lane; and
   (E)   Texas Avenue at Community Center.
(Ord. 87-92, passed 11-17-1987)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   WEEDS, BRUSH, LITTER
      
95.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
96.   CULVERTS, PARKING, AND OBSTRUCTIONS IN DITCHES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Purpose
   
90.03   Definitions
   
90.04   Prima facie proof
   
90.05   Enforcement officers
   
90.06   Vaccination of dogs and cats; owner identification
   
90.07   Keeping of nuisance animals
   
90.08   Destruction of certain animals
   
90.09   Abandonment of animals
   
90.10   Duty of motorist on striking domestic animals
   
90.11   Care and feeding of animals
   
90.12   Confinement, observation and destruction of biting animals, destruction
of rabid animals; determination and disposition of dangerous animals; keeping
of dangerous animals
   
90.13   Keeping wild animals
   
90.14   Running at large prohibited
   
90.15   Area and distance requirements for swine, livestock and fowl enclosures
   
90.16   Savings clause
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Animal Control
Ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 90.02 PURPOSE.
   The primary function and intent of this chapter is the protection of the
health, safety and welfare of the people of the town by controlling the animal
population and establishing uniform rules for the control and eradication of
rabies.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 90.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED ANIMAL and TO ABANDON. Any animal in which the owner has
relinquished all of such owner’s right, title, claim and possession with the
intention of not reclaiming such animal or resuming the ownership, possession
or enjoyment thereof.
   ANIMAL. Any domestic or wild animal of a species that is susceptible to
rabies, inclusive of livestock.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The person appointed to serve in the capacity of
animal control officer of the town or assistant of the animal control officer
of the town.
   CONFINED or CONFINEMENT. Of an animal shall mean confined within a building
or home, or within a fenced yard or premises, so that the animal cannot escape
from said building, house or fenced yard or premises without human assistance.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any dog, cat or other animal that, without clear
provocation:
      (1)   Bites or attacks humans;
      (2)   In a vicious or terrorizing manner approaches any person in an
apparent attitude of attack, whether or not the attack is consummated or
capable of being consummated; or
      (3)   Any animal that commits an unprovoked attack on a person or animal
on public or private property.
   ENCLOSURE. A barn, shed or fence, constructed of wood, masonry, chain link
or any combination thereof, sufficient to contain any animal or fowl kept
therein.
   FOWL. A bird of any kind.
   INHUMANE TREATMENT. Any treatment to any animal which deprives the animal of
necessary sustenance, including food, water or protection from weather, or any
treatment of any animal such as overloading, overworking, tormenting, beating,
mutilating or teasing, or other abnormal treatment as may be determined by the
town’s animal control officer or a law enforcement officer.
   LIVESTOCK. Animals commonly considered as livestock (see §
90.15(C)).
   NUISANCE ANIMAL OR FOWL. Any of the following: any animal or fowl which
molests passers-by or passing vehicles; attacks other animals; damages private
or public property; barks, whines or howls in an excessive, continuous or
untimely fashion; or is a free-roaming animal that bears no means of
identifying the owner thereof.
   OWNER. Any person owning, keeping, in charge of, in control of, maintaining
or harboring one or more animals or fowl; or any person (other than the lien
holder) having any interest legal or equitable, in the title to any property,
real, personal or mixed, and includes a lessee, tenant, bailee or other person
entitled to the use and possession thereof.
   OWNER IDENTIFICATION TAG. A metal tag designed for attachment to the collar
of a dog or cat containing the name, current address and telephone number of
the owner of such animal.
   RABIES VACCINATION TAG. A metal tag issued by a veterinarian licensed to
practice in the state, showing the year of vaccination by shape, code or year
stamped thereon.
   RUN AT LARGE, RUNNING AT LARGE or AT LARGE. These terms shall mean any
canine, feline or animal, livestock or fowl, not under direct physical (not
verbal) control of its owner or keeper, on the streets, sidewalks, or other
public or private places, as well as that such is found outside its enclosure
in which the animal is required to be kept by the terms of this chapter. It
shall be presumed that any animal found RUNNING AT LARGE was permitted or
allowed to do so by the owner or keeper thereof.
   SWINE. This term includes both hogs and pigs of any kind.
   UNPROVOKED. With respect to an attack by an animal, means that the animal
was not hit, kicked or struck by a person with an object or part of a person’s
body nor was any part of the animal’s body pulled, pinched or squeezed by a
person.
   QUARANTINE. Complete and total isolation in such a place and in such a
manner and for a period of time as may be prescribed by this chapter.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not ordinarily tame or domesticated, or which by its
very nature has propensities toward inflicting serious bodily harm. Any animal
or reptile which, in its natural state, possess dangerous or vicious
propensities and includes, but is not limited to, coyotes, wolves, bears,
wildcats (puma, bobcat, lynx), lions, tigers, poisonous snakes, alligators,
crocodiles and monkeys, whether or not said animal or reptile has been tamed.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 90.04 PRIMA FACIE PROOF.
   In any prosecution under this chapter in the Municipal Court, or any other
court of competent jurisdiction, proof that any premises situated within the
municipality is listed on the current tax roll of the municipality in the name
of any person shall be prima facie proof that such person is the owner of such
premises and proof that any animal or fowl mentioned in this chapter is found
in the possession of any person or has been kept on any premises shall be prima
facie proof that the person having possession of such animal or fowl or the
owner of such premises is the owner of such animal or fowl, proof that any
animal has in the past bitten any person at any time shall be prima facie proof
that such animal is a dangerous animal; proof that any dog or cat is not
wearing a collar to which is attached a rabies vaccination tag as required by §
90.06 shall be prima facie proof that such dog or cat has not been vaccinated
against rabies within the preceding 12-month period; and, proof that any person
has in the past been advised by an officer that any animal owned, kept,
possessed, harbored or allowed to remain upon the premises under such persons
control is a nuisance animal shall be prima facie proof that such person
thereafter knowingly owned, kept, possessed, harbored or allowed such animal to
remain upon such premises if such animal is found upon such premises after ten
days following the giving of such warning by such officer; provided, however,
the prima facie proof herein provided for may be rebutted by any party to such
action.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 90.05 ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   (A)   There is hereby created for the municipality the office of Animal
Control Officer, who shall be appointed by and shall serve at the pleasure of
the Council. At the time of such appointment, the Council shall specify the
compensation to be given the person appointed to such office.
   (B)   This chapter shall be enforced jointly and severally by the Animal
Control Officer and the Town Police Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with or oppose or
resist any officer engaged in the performance of duties pertaining to the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (D)   Any officer enforcing this chapter, having probable cause to believe
that a violation of this chapter has occurred, shall have the right to enter
upon all yards within the municipality for the purpose of enforcing this
chapter; provided, however, this shall not authorize such officer to enter
dwellings or buildings located upon the private premises without the consent of
the owner or person in control thereof.
   (E)   The officer enforcing this chapter is to take up and impound any cat
or dog found to be at large without wearing a collar with both a legible
owner’s identification tag and a rabies vaccination tag issued within the 12
calendar months next preceding securely attached to such collar as well as all
biting and nuisance animals. All biting animals so taken up shall be impounded
in the manner specified in §
90.12. All nuisance animals and any cats or dogs taken up pursuant to the
provisions of this division (E) shall be impounded by the officer at an
appropriate place to be selected by the officer, either within or without the
corporate limits of the town. The owner or other person responsible for any cat
or dog or other animal so impounded shall be responsible for any actual
expenses incurred for lodging and feeding such animal. The officer shall give
actual notice of the impoundment of any cat or dog to any person named on any
owner identification tag affixed to any collar worn by such animal at the time
the same is taken up at the address or telephone number stated on such tag, but
notice of the impoundment of any other cat or dog or other animal shall be
given by posting the same on the bulletin boards located at the Town Hall where
notices of the meetings of the Town Council are posted. Any cat or dog or other
animal so impounded may be redeemed by the owner or other person responsible
for such cat or dog or other animal paying the actual expenses mentioned above
and, in the case of cats and dogs, by paying for the vaccination of such cat or
dog or by presenting proof of vaccination of such cat or dog within the 12
calendar months next preceding by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the
state. All cats and dogs or other animals so impounded which are not so
redeemed within not less than 120 hours after such notice is given in the case
of cats or dogs wearing a collar to which is securely attached a legible
owner’s identification tag or a rabies vaccination tag issued within the 12
calendar months next preceding, and within not less than 72 hours after such
notice is so given with respect to all other cats or dogs or other animals,
shall either be placed for adoption with any other person paying such actual
expenses and, if necessary, the cost of vaccination required above, or
destroyed by or at the direction of the officer in a manner which to such
officer seems most humane.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 90.06 VACCINATION OF DOGS AND CATS; OWNER IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
own, keep, possess, harbor or allow to remain upon premises under such person’s
control any cat or dog which has not been vaccinated against rabies during the
preceding 12-month period.
   (B)   All cats or dogs kept within the municipality shall be required and it
shall be the duty of the owner of any dog to have a rabies vaccination tag
issued for the succeeding 12-month period and an owner identification tag, both
such tags to be firmly attached to a collar and such collar to be worn by such
dog at all times.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove the collar from any dog
or to remove from the collar of any dog any rabies vaccination tag or owner
identification tag without the prior written consent of the owner of such cat
or dog.
   (D)   The provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above requiring rabies
vaccination and wearing of rabies vaccination tags shall not apply to cats or
dogs under the age of four months and the provisions of division (B) above
requiring the wearing of an owner identification tag shall not apply to cats or
dogs under the age of three months.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 KEEPING OF NUISANCE ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal or fowl on any
property located within the town limits when the keeping of such animal or fowl
constitutes a nuisance or menace to public health and safety.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   An animal that has been severely injured may be destroyed in a humane
manner if the animal is suffering and is not expected to survive.
   (B)   An animal that exhibits symptoms of mange, distemper, parvo or other
communicable diseases may be destroyed in a humane manner. Animals suspected of
having a communicable disease shall not be confined with healthy animals in any
animal shelter.
   (C)   If an injured or diseased animal in the custody of the Animal Control
Officer or town police officer is wearing a current vaccination tag or other
identification, the custodian shall make every reasonable effort to notify the
owner of the animal’s location and condition before destroying the animal. Once
notified, if the owner proceeds immediately to the location of the injured
animal, it shall be released to the owner. Animals that are not wearing any
type of identification may be destroyed immediately.
   (D)   The town shall not be responsible for obtaining veterinary services
for unclaimed diseased or injured animals. In the event a person obtains
veterinary services for a diseased or injured animal, a person subsequently
claiming ownership of the animal shall be liable for all expenses of treatment.
A person or entity that obtains veterinary services for an animal may bring
suit against the animal’s owner to collect expenses of treatment
   (E)   The town, its officers, agents and employees, shall not be liable for
damages in the destruction of any animal accomplished in accordance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 90.09 ABANDONMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to dump,
release or abandon any dog, cat or other animal whatsoever on any property,
whether public or private, within the town.
   (B)   Any person having knowledge of an animal which has been or is believed
to have been dumped, released or abandoned should notify the Animal Control
Officer or town police officer and shall give all pertinent information
including description and location of animal and the name, address, car license
number, or any other information or description of the person who dumped,
released or abandoned the animal, if known.
   (C)   Any person who keeps, harbors, feeds, shelters or otherwise allow any
stray animal or any animal which has been dumped, released or abandoned to
remain on his or her property or allows or permits egress or ingress for three
or more days without notifying the Animal Control Officer or town police
officer shall hereby be deemed the owner of said animal.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DUTY OF MOTORIST ON STRIKING DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   The operator of any motor vehicle which strikes a domestic animal within the
corporate limits shall stop at once and render such assistance as may be
possible. If such animal has attached to it anything on which is set forth the
name and address of the owner, the operator shall immediately notify such
owner; otherwise, such motorist shall immediately notify an officer charged
with the responsibility for enforcing this chapter and such officer shall make
every reasonable effort to notify the owner of such animal and shall attend to
disposition of the animal if it is dead.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 90.11 CARE AND FEEDING OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   All animals shall be fed with a quantity of good, wholesome food
sufficient to keep them in a good, well-nourished condition, and such food
shall be served to such animals in a clean, sanitary manner. All animals shall
be provided with pure, clean water in sufficient quantities at all times and
adequate shelter to protect them from the elements. If an inspection of any
such premises or place finds that unclean or unsanitary conditions exist, the
Animal Control Officer shall notify the owner or person in possession that such
conditions must be remedied and such premises or place be made clean and
sanitary within three days following the date of such notice.
   (B)   In the event such owner or person in possession fails to comply with
such notice, such officer shall thereafter proceed with the filing of a
complaint against such owner or person in possession for a violation of the
requirements of the first sentence of this section.
      (1)   No person shall expose any known poisonous substance, whether or
not mixed with food, so that the same shall be liable to be eaten by any
animal.
      (2)   It is an exception to the application of division (A) above if a
person on such person’s own property is using common rat poison mixed only with
vegetable substances.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 CONFINEMENT, OBSERVATION AND DESTRUCTION OF BITING ANIMALS, DESTRUCTION
OF RABID ANIMALS; DETERMINATION AND DISPOSITION OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS; KEEPING
OF DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Should any person be bitten by any animal, upon complaint made to any
officer charged with the enforcement of this chapter, the owner or other person
responsible for such animal shall be notified by such officer to keep such
animal confined and under observation by a veterinarian licensed to practice in
the state, for not less than ten days after such person was bitten and to
release such animal only upon approval by such veterinarian. Upon the failure
of the owner or other person responsible for such animal to comply with such
notice, such officer shall take such animal and cause it to be confined and
placed under observation with such veterinarian. The owner or other person
responsible for such animal shall be responsible for any actual expenses
incurred for treatment, veterinary fees and lodging fees. If any animal dies
while under observation, the head of such animal shall be sent directly to the
State Health Department either located in Houston or Austin, Texas, for
examination. Notice of any confinement by such officer of any biting animal
pursuant to the provisions of this division (A) shall be given to the owner or
other person responsible in the manner specified above in §
90.05(E) for the impoundment of nuisance animals. Upon the failure of the owner
or other person to redeem any biting animal in the manner specified in said §
90.05(E) within 24 hours after the expiration of the ten day confinement
period, the officer charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall be
authorized to proceed with the adoption or destruction of such animal in the
manner specified in said §
90.05(E).
   (B)   Any officer charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall have
the right to destroy any animal suspected by such officer of being rabid which
is found within the corporate limits.
   (C)   (1)   If any officer charged with enforcing this chapter is of the
opinion that any animal found within the corporate limits is dangerous,
although not affected with rabies, such officer may order the person who owns
or has custody of the animal to keep the animal at all times securely fastened
by a chain or securely confined within the private property of such owner or
person having custody of the animal, or keep the animal in such other manner as
such officer may direct in order to prevent it from biting or having the
opportunity to bite any person, including person lawfully on the premises where
the animal is so fastened or confined, until further orders of such officer.
      (2)   In determining whether or not a animal is a dangerous animal, the
following shall be taken into consideration by such officer:
         (a)   Whether or not such animal has bitten any person at any time;
         (b)   The surrounding circumstances indicating the temper or ferocity
of the animal;
         (c)   The reputation of the animal in the community with regard to its
temper or ferocity; and
         (d)   The general menace of the animal to the public.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits to
own, keep, possess, harbor or to allow remaining upon the premises under such
person’s control any dangerous animal.
   (E)   It is an exception to the application of division (D) above if such
animal has been determined by an officer charged with the enforcement of this
chapter, to be a dangerous animal under the provisions of division (C) above,
and such animal is at all times kept in the manner required by such officer.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 KEEPING WILD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep, possess or maintain, or to cause to be kept,
possessed or maintained, any wild animal within the town.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   No owner or keeper of any animal shall permit or allow such animal to run at
large within the limits of the town. All animals shall be controlled by leash,
restriction within a fence, or by enclosure. An animal (excluding cats and
those listed in §
90.15) on a leash that has been staked or tied shall be confined to the
boundaries of the owner’s property and the length of the leash shall allow the
animal to roam only within the boundaries of the owner’s property.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15 AREA AND DISTANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR SWINE, LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Every owner of swine shall keep the same within an enclosure that is
located at least 600 feet from the nearest common boundary line between the
premises on which such enclosure is located and any adjoining premises. The
owner of swine shall maintain an enclosure that must be at least 5,000 square
feet per swine that must be maintained in a clean and sanitary manner.
   (B)   Every owner of fowl or rabbits shall keep the same within an enclosure
that is located at least 100 feet from any occupied dwelling, except said
owner’s dwelling. The owner of fowl or rabbits shall maintain an enclosure for
the same that is of sufficient size to permit the same to be maintained in a
clean and sanitary manner.
   (C)   Every owner of livestock, other than swine, fowl or rabbits, shall
keep the same within an enclosure or fenced area, which is suitable to keep the
livestock restrained from roaming loose, and must be at least 7,500 square feet
in area for each “animal unit” enclosed in that prescribed area, and that area
must be located 100 feet from any occupied dwelling, except the owner’s
dwelling, or any occupied dwelling with written consent from those owners, and
the owner of said livestock shall maintain such areas in a clean and sanitary
manner. An “animal unit” is defined as follow:
Animal Unit Equivalency Chart
Animal Type Animal Units
Animal Unit Equivalency Chart
Animal Type                     Animal Units
Cow or cow and calf             1.00
Mature bull                     1.00
Weaned calf to 1 year           0.60
Steer (one year old)            0.70
Steer (two years old)           0.90
Horse                           1.00
Miniature horse                 0.50
Donkey or mule                  1.00
Miniature donkey/burro          0.75
Bull elk                        0.60
5 ewes                          1.00
4 rams or buck sheep            1.00
8 lambs (weaned to 1 year)      1.00
6 nanny goats or does           1.00
5 billy goats or bucks          1.00
10 kid goats (weaned to 1 year) 1.00
6 mature mutton goats           1.00
5 axis or fallow deer           1.00
5 aoudad or mouflon sheep       1.00
7 sika deer                     1.00
2.5 red deer                    1.00
1 eland                         1.00
3 emus                          1.00
2 ostriches                     1.00
7 white-tailed deer             1.00
10 blackbuck antelope           1.00
3 llamas                        1.00
 
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 90.16 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This chapter is cumulative of and in addition to all other ordinances of the
town, on the same subject; provided, however, where this chapter and other
ordinances shall conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
regulations or penalties, as the case may be, shall prevail. No offense
committed and no fine. Forfeiture or penalty incurred prior to the effective
date of this chapter is to be affected by the adoption of this chapter but the
punishment for any offense committed and the recovery of any fines or
forfeitures incurred prior to such date shall take place as if this chapter had
not been adopted. The ordinances repealed herein remain in effect solely for
the purpose of enforcement for offenses occurring prior to the effective date
of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon convictions therefore shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $200, and that each day any such violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person which violates any of the provisions of §
90.13 shall be subject to a minimum fine of $200, and each day such violation
is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate violation.
   (C)   If any person is found guilty of the offense of animal at large (under
§
90.14 hereof), and that animal is a wild animal, such person shall be subject
to a minimum fine of $200.
(Ord. 2005-10, passed 12-28-2005)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED AND JUNK VEHICLES
Section
   
91.01   Short title
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Authority to take abandoned motor vehicle into custody
   
91.04   Taking abandoned motor vehicle into custody; notice
   
91.05   Storage fees
   
91.06   Auction or use of abandoned items; waiver of rights
   
91.07   Auction proceeds
   
91.08   Law enforcement agency use of certain abandoned motor vehicles
   
91.09   Vehicle abandoned in storage facility
   
91.10   Demolition of abandoned motor vehicles
   
91.11   Junked vehicle declared to be a public nuisance
   
91.12   Offense
   
91.13   Authority to abate nuisance; procedure and prohibited acts
   
91.14   Notice
   
91.15   Hearing
   
91.16   Exceptions
   
91.17   Junked vehicle disposal
   
91.18   Conflict of laws; effect upon other laws and ordinances
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Abandoned and Junk
Vehicle Ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle is abandoned if the motor vehicle:
      (1)   Is inoperable, is more than five years old, and has been left
unattended on public property for more than 48 hours;
      (2)   Has remained illegally on public property for more than 48 hours;
and/or
      (3)   Has remained on private property without the consent of the owner
or person in charge of the property for more than 48 hours.
   AGENCY. Ordinance/Code Enforcement Officer, County Sheriff’s Department,
Constable, Town Police Department or any contracted security service.
   DEPARTMENT. The Texas Department of Transportation.
   GARAGE KEEPER. An owner or operator of a storage facility.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled and:
      (1)   Does not have lawfully attached to it:
         (a)   An unexpired license plate; or
         (b)   A valid motor vehicle inspection certificate;
      (2)   Is:
         (a)   Wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled or discarded; or
         (b)   Inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than 72
consecutive hours, if the vehicle is on public property; or 30 consecutive
days, if the vehicle is on private property.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY.
      (1)   The Department of Public Safety;
      (2)   The Police Department of a municipality;
      (3)   The Police Department of an institution of higher education; or
      (4)   A sheriff or a constable.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to registration under Tex. Transp.
Code, Chapter 501.
   MOTOR VEHICLE DEMOLISHER. A person in the business of:
      (1)   Converting motor vehicles into processed scrap or scrap metal; or
      (2)   Wrecking or dismantling motor vehicles.
   OUTBOARD MOTOR. An outboard motor subject to registration under Parks and
Wildlife Code, Chapter 31.
   STORAGE FACILITY. Includes a garage, parking lot or establishment for the
servicing, repairing or parking of motor vehicles.
   TOWN. The Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.
   WATERCRAFT. A vessel subject to registration under Parks and Wildlife Code,
Chapter 31.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003; Ord. 2009-07, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 91.03 AUTHORITY TO TAKE ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE INTO CUSTODY.
   (A)   The agency may take into custody an abandoned motor vehicle,
watercraft or outboard motor found on public or private property.
   (B)   The agency may use agency personnel, equipment and facilities or
contract for other personnel, equipment and facilities to remove, preserve and
store an abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft or outboard motor taken into
custody by the agency under this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.04 TAKING ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE INTO CUSTODY; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Town Police Department shall send notice of abandonment to:
      (1)   The last known registered owner of each motor vehicle, watercraft
or outboard motor taken into custody by the agency or for which a report is
received under Tex. Transp. Code, § 683.031; and
      (2)   Each lien holder recorded under Tex. Transp. Code, Chapter 501, for
the motor vehicle or under Parks and Wildlife Code, Chapter 31, for the
watercraft or outboard motor.
   (B)   The notice under division (A) above must:
      (1)   Be sent by certified mail not later than the tenth day after the
date the agency:
         (a)   Takes the abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft, or outboard motor
into custody; or
         (b)   Receives the report under Tex. Transp. Code, § 683.031.
      (2)   Specify the year, make, model and identification number of the
item;
      (3)   Give the location of the facility where the item is being held;
      (4)   Inform the owner and lien holder of the right to claim the item not
later than the twentieth day after the date of the notice on payment of:
         (a)   Towing, preservation and storage charges; or
         (b)   Garage keeper’s charges and fees under Tex. Transp. Code, §
683.032.
      (5)   State that failure of the owner or lien holder to claim the item
during the period specified by division (B)(4) above is:
         (a)   A waiver by that person of all right, title and interest in the
item; and
         (b)   Consent to the sale of the item at a public auction.
   (C)   Notice by publication in one newspaper of general circulation in the
area where the motor vehicle, watercraft or outboard motor was abandoned is
sufficient notice under this section if:
      (1)   The identity of the last registered owner cannot be determined;
      (2)   The registration has no address for the owner; or
      (3)   The determination with reasonable certainty of the identity and
address of all lien holders is impossible.
   (D)   Notice by publication:
      (1)   Must be published in the same period that is required by division
(B) above for notice by certified mail and contain all of the information
required by that division; and
      (2)   May contain a list of more than one abandoned motor vehicle,
watercraft or outboard motor.
   (E)   The agency is not required to send a notice, as otherwise required by
division (A) above, if the agency has received notice from a vehicle storage
facility that an application has or will be submitted to the department for the
disposal of the vehicle.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.05 STORAGE FEES.
   The agency or the agent of the agency that takes into custody an abandoned
motor vehicle, watercraft or outboard motor is entitled to reasonable storage
fees:
   (A)   For not more than ten days, beginning on the day the item is taken
into custody and ending on the day the required notice is mailed; and
   (B)   Beginning on the day after the day the agency mails notice and ending
on the day accrued charges are paid and the vehicle, watercraft or outboard
motor is removed.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.06 AUCTION OR USE OF ABANDONED ITEMS; WAIVER OF RIGHTS.
   (A)   If an abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft or outboard motor is not
claimed under §
91.04:
      (1)   The owner or lien holder:
         (a)   Waives all rights and interests in the item; and
         (b)   Consents to the sale of the item by public auction.
      (2)   The agency may sell the item at a public auction or use the item as
provided by §
91.08.
   (B)   Proper notice of the auction shall be given. A garage keeper who has a
garage keeper’s lien shall be notified of the time and place of the auction.
   (C)   The purchaser of a motor vehicle, watercraft or outboard motor:
      (1)   Takes title free and clear of all liens and claims of ownership;
      (2)   Shall receive a sales receipt from the agency; and
      (3)   Is entitled to register the motor vehicle, watercraft or outboard
motor and receive a certificate of title.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.07 AUCTION PROCEEDS.
   (A)   A law enforcement agency is entitled to reimbursement from the
proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle, watercraft or outboard
motor for:
      (1)   The cost of the auction;
      (2)   Towing, preservation and storage fees resulting from the taking
into custody; and
      (3)   The cost of notice or publication as required by §
91.06.
   (B)   After deducting the reimbursement allowed under division (A) above,
the proceeds of the sale shall be held for 90 days for the owner or lien holder
of the vehicle.
   (C)   After the period provided by division (B) above, proceeds unclaimed by
the owner or lien holder shall be deposited in an account that may be used for
the payment of auction, towing, preservation, storage and notice and
publication fees resulting from taking other vehicles, watercraft or outboard
motors into custody if the proceeds from the sale of the other items are
insufficient to meet those fees.
   (D)   The town may transfer funds in excess of $1,000 from the account to
the town’s General Revenue Account to be used by the agency.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.08 LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCY USE OF CERTAIN ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The agency when taking an abandoned motor vehicle into custody that is
not claimed under §
91.04 may use the vehicle for agency purposes.
   (B)   The law enforcement agency shall auction the vehicle as provided by
this chapter if the agency discontinues use of the vehicle.
   (C)   This section does not apply to an abandoned vehicle on which there is
a garage keeper’s lien.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.09 VEHICLE ABANDONED IN STORAGE FACILITY.
   Motor vehicles abandoned in a commercial storage facility shall be disposed
of as authorized by Tex. Transp. Code, Subchapter C, §§ 683.031 through
683.034.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.10 DEMOLITION OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   Demolition of abandoned motor vehicles shall conform to Tex. Transp. Code,
Subchapter D §§ 683.051 through 683.057.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.11 JUNKED VEHICLE DECLARED TO BE A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A junked vehicle, including a part of a junked vehicle, that is visible at
any time of the year from a public place or public right-of-way:
   (A)   Is detrimental to the safety and welfare of the public;
   (B)   Tends to reduce the value of private property;
   (C)   Invites vandalism;
   (D)   Creates a fire hazard;
   (E)   Is an attractive nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety
of minors;
   (F)   Produces urban blight adverse to the maintenance and continuing
development of municipalities; and
   (G)   Is a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.12 OFFENSE.
   A person commits an offense if the person maintains a public nuisance
described by §
91.11, or violates any provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 AUTHORITY TO ABATE NUISANCE; PROCEDURE AND PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Procedures for the abatement and removal from private or public
property or a public right-of-way of a junked vehicle or part of a junked
vehicle as a public nuisance, shall conform to Tex. Transp. Code, Chapter 683,
Subchapter E.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a junked vehicle to be
reconstructed or made operable after removal.
   (C)   The relocation of a junked vehicle that is a public nuisance to
another location in the town after a proceeding for the abatement and removal
of the public nuisance has commenced has no effect on the proceeding if the
junked vehicle constitutes a public nuisance at the new location.
   (D)   The Municipal Court of the town may issue necessary orders to enforce
the procedures.
   (E)   The procedures for abatement and removal of a public nuisance in this
chapter must be administered by qualified town employees or designated town
representatives.
   (F)   A public hearing must be held prior to removal of the public nuisance.
   (G)   A notice identifying the vehicle or part of the vehicle must be given
to the Department not later than the fifth day after the date of removal. On
receipt of this notice, the Department shall immediately cancel the certificate
of title issued for the vehicle.
   (H)   A person authorized to administer the procedures may enter private
property to examine a public nuisance, to obtain information to identify the
nuisance and to remove or direct the removal of the nuisance.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003; Ord. 2009-07, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 91.14 NOTICE.
   (A)   The abatement and removal of a public nuisance under this chapter must
provide not less than ten days’ notice of the nature of the nuisance. The
notice must be personally delivered or sent by certified mail with a five-day
return requested to:
      (1)   The last known registered owner of the nuisance;
      (2)   Each lien holder of record of the nuisance; and
      (3)   The owner or occupant of:
         (a)   The property on which the nuisance is located; or
         (b)   If the nuisance is located on a public right-of-way, the
property adjacent to the right-of-way.
   (B)   The notice must state that:
      (1)   The nuisance must be abated and removed not later than the tenth
day after the date on which the notice was personally delivered or mailed; and
      (2)   Any request for a hearing must be made before that ten-day period
expires.
   (C)   If the post office address of the last known registered owner of the
nuisance is unknown, notice may be placed on the nuisance or, if the owner is
located, personally delivered.
   (D)   If notice is returned undelivered, action to abate the nuisance shall
be continued to a date not earlier than the eleventh day after the date of the
return.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.15 HEARING.
   (A)   The Town Municipal Court Judge shall conduct any hearings required by
this chapter.
   (B)   If a hearing is requested by a person for whom notice is required
under §
91.13(A)(3), the hearing shall be held not earlier than the eleventh day after
the date of the service of notice.
   (C)   At the hearing, the junked motor vehicle is presumed, unless
demonstrated otherwise by the owner, to be inoperable.
   (D)   If the information is available at the location of the nuisance, a
resolution or order requiring removal of the nuisance must include the
vehicle’s:
      (1)   Description;
      (2)   Vehicle identification number; and
      (3)   License plate number.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.16 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The abatement of a public nuisance under this chapter shall not apply
to a vehicle or vehicle part:
      (1)   That is completely enclosed in a building in a lawful manner and is
not visible from the street or other public or private property; or
      (2)   That is stored or parked in a lawful manner on private property in
connection with the business of a licensed vehicle dealer or junkyard, or that
is an antique or special interest vehicle stored by a motor vehicle collector
on the collector’s property, if the vehicle or part and the outdoor storage
area, if any, are:
         (a)   Maintained in an orderly manner;
         (b)   Not a health hazard; and
         (c)   Screened from ordinary public view by appropriate means,
including a fence, rapidly growing trees or shrubbery.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE. A passenger car or truck that is at least 25 years old.
   MOTOR VEHICLE COLLECTOR. A person who:
      (1)   Owns one or more antique or special interest vehicles; and
      (2)   Acquires, collects or disposes of an antique or special interest
vehicle or part of an antique or special interest vehicle for personal use to
restore and preserve an antique or special interest vehicle for historic
interest.
   SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE. A motor vehicle of any age that has not been
changed from original manufacturer’s specifications and, because of its
historic interest, is being preserved by a hobbyist.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.17 JUNKED VEHICLE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   A junked vehicle, including a part of a junked vehicle, may be removed
to a scrap yard, a motor vehicle demolisher, or a suitable site operated by the
town.
   (B)   The town may operate a disposal site if the Town Council determines
that commercial disposition of junked vehicles is not available or is
inadequate. The town may:
      (1)   Finally dispose of a junked vehicle or vehicle part; or
      (2)   Transfer it to another disposal site if the disposal is scrap or
salvage only.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.18 CONFLICT OF LAWS; EFFECT UPON OTHER LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Section 91.10 may not be read as conflicting with §§
91.13 through 91.17.
   (B)   This chapter does not affect a law authorizing the immediate removal
of a vehicle left on public property that is an obstruction to traffic.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   An offense under this chapter is a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
not to exceed $200.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this chapter occurs or continues to occur is
a separate offense.
   (C)   Each vehicle or part thereof that is in violation of this chapter is a
separate offense.
   (D)   The Municipal Court of the town shall order abatement and removal of
the nuisance on conviction.
(Ord. 2003-006, passed 10-20-2003)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Horsepower on lakes
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 HORSEPOWER ON LAKES.
   (A)   No person shall operate a boat on any lake located within the limits
of the town with a motor with a manufacturer’s initial rating in excess of 9.9
horsepower.
   (B)   No offense committed and no fine, forfeiture or penalty incurred prior
to the effective date of this chapter is to be affected by the adoption of this
chapter, but the punishment for any offense committed and the recovery of any
fines or forfeitures incurred prior to such date shall take place as if this
chapter had not been adopted.
(Ord. 91-133, passed 8-20-1991) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of §
92.01 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200. Each day or portion
thereof that any such violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 91-133, passed 8-20-1991)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Address Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Rules of construction
   
93.03   Street addresses and map
   
93.04   Designated town official to give notice of street address
   
93.05   Street address to be posted on property
Ditch and Culvert Provisions
   
93.20   Short title
   
93.21   Culvert requirements
   
93.22   Parking, obstructions, defense
 
   
93.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Street address map
STREET ADDRESS PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HABITABLE STRUCTURE. Any building, mobile home, manufactured home, motor
home or any other enclosure capable of being used as living quarters or to
house a business.
   NOTICE. A written or printed announcement of the street address, and
outlining the provisions of §
93.05, provided by any town official.
(Ord. 84-45, passed 5-8-1984; Ord. 94-01, passed 2-21-1994)
§ 93.02 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter is cumulative of and in addition to all other ordinances of
the town, on the same subject and all such ordinances are hereby expressly
saved from repeal; provided, however, where this subchapter and another
ordinance conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent regulations
or penalties, as the case may be, shall prevail.
(Ord. 84-45, passed 5-8-1984; Ord. 94-01, passed 2-21-1994)
§ 93.03 STREET ADDRESSES AND MAP.
   The Town Council hereby amends the street addresses as shown on the map
which is marked as Exhibit B, and which is set forth as Appendix A to this
chapter, and from and after the effective date of this subchapter, each lot as
shown on such map shall be known and may be located by the street address
assigned to it on such map.
(Ord. 84-45, passed 5-8-1984; Ord. 94-01, passed 2-21-1994)
§ 93.04 DESIGNATED TOWN OFFICIAL TO GIVE NOTICE OF STREET ADDRESS.
   (A)   Within 60 days of the effective date of this subchapter, a designated
town official or officials shall give notice to all residents of occupied
habitable structures within the town limits, as to the street address of such
structure. In the case of any unoccupied habitable structure, the owner of such
structure shall be so notified.
   (B)   The notice required in division (A) above may be delivered in person,
by U.S. mail, or by whatever other means available.
   (C)   If such notice is sent by U.S. mail, the fact that the notice was not
returned as undeliverable, shall be prima facie proof that such notice was
delivered as required by this subchapter.
   (D)   Such notice shall also be given to all persons applying for a building
permit for a new structure or applying for new utility service, at the time
such application is made.
(Ord. 84-45, passed 5-8-1984; Ord. 94-01, passed 2-21-1994)
§ 93.05 STREET ADDRESS TO BE POSTED ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, the residents of
all occupied habitable structures within the town limits, and the owners of all
unoccupied habitable structures within the town limits, shall post the number
of the street address assigned to such structure by this subchapter, in a
location so as to clearly identify the structure as such street address.
   (B)   Such posting of the street address shall be in a location whereby the
public can view such number from the public street in front of such property.
   (C)   The number shall be constructed of a durable material and such number
shall be a minimum of three inches in height. Such number shall be maintained
in such a manner as to ensure that the number is clearly visible and legible.
   (D)   The posting of the street number as provided in this section shall be
completed within 30 days of receipt of notice.
(Ord. 84-45, passed 5-8-1984; Ord. 94-01, passed 2-21-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
DITCH AND CULVERT PROVISIONS
§ 93.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Ditch and Culvert
Ordinance of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 6-15-2010)
§ 93.21 CULVERT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No person may install, build, construct, repair or replace a private
driveway connecting to a public street or across a public easement unless a
culvert is installed in accordance with the following specifications.
      (1)   All culverts are required to fill the needs as directed by ditch
size, with the minimum of 18 inches.
      (2)   Culverts must be reinforced concrete.
      (3)   Town Council approval is required for any exception to the minimum
size and said approval is necessary prior to installation.
   (B)   Following approval, resident will be issued a permit of approval which
shall be presented to the county when requesting culvert installation. There is
no charge for the permit.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 6-15-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 PARKING, OBSTRUCTIONS, DEFENSE.
   (A)   No vehicle shall park within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or flush
valve within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   No person may place or deposit an obstruction in any ditch in the
town, including, but not limited to, any dirt, sand, gravel, brush, tree limbs,
leaves, motor vehicles, and other tangible personal property. Debris deposited
for retrieval on the monthly heavy trash day shall be deposited no earlier than
two weeks before the regularly scheduled pick up day.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to division (B) above if the sand, dirt
or gravel is used only to cover a culvert and if such culvert is installed as
required by §
93.21.
   (D)   All roadways must have a 15-foot unobstructed passageway for emergency
equipment.
(Ord. 2010-03, passed 6-15-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any violation of any provision of §§
93.01 through 93.05 shall constitute a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by
a fine not exceeding $200, and each and every day a violation occurs or
continues to occur, shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   No offense committed and no fine, forfeiture or penalty incurred
prior to the effective date of §§
93.01 through 93.05 is to be affected by the adoption of §§
93.01 through 93.05, but the punishment for any offense committed and the
recovery of any fines or forfeitures incurred prior to such date shall take
place as if §§
93.01 through 93.05 had not been adopted.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
93.20 through 93.22 is guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be punished by a fine
not to exceed $500 and that each and every day a violation continues or occurs
is a separate offense.
(Ord. 84-45, passed 5-8-1984; Ord. 94-01, passed 2-21-1994; Ord. 2010-03,
passed 6-15-2010)
APPENDIX A: STREET ADDRESS MAP
Appendix A is available in PDF format: HERE
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-793.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-795.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-797.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-799.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-801.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-803.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-805.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-807.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-809.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-811.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-813.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-815.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/64e2087b918a0030455a9a9594a98014243d898f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-817.png]
 
CHAPTER 94: WEEDS, BRUSH, LITTER
Section
   
94.01   Short title
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Accumulation or growth of weeds, rubbish, brush, litter or any other
unsightly, objectionable or unsanitary matter
   
94.04   Notice to owners; work by or at the direction of the municipality
charging the owner and fixing a lien, bringing a suit for foreclosure
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Weed Lot Ordinance of
the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 95-02, passed 2-20-1995)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BRUSH. Underbrush, land overgrown with a thick growth of small trees and
shrubs, low shrubby growth, tree branches that have been chopped or broken off.
   OCCUPANT. A person who occupies land, or house, owner, renter or anyone
living at the residence.
   OTHER OBJECTIONABLE MATTER. Any accumulation of lawn clippings, dead leaves,
cut trees or tree limbs and other debris of whatever nature, either plied or
laying about the lot, anything that would create a fire hazard, safety hazard,
health hazard or any other matter that by its mere presence offends the general
public.
   OWNER. Any person holding legal or equitable title to any real property
within the municipality of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas, as reflected on
the current tax roll of the town.
   RUBBISH. Trash of any nature.
   UNSIGHTLY MATTER. The storing or keeping of anything so as to produce an
unsightly or ugly appearance. Piles of trash, junk, containers, litter on or
about the lot, or anything which may harbor reptiles or rodents, creates a fire
hazard, safety hazard or health hazard.
   UNSANITARY MATTER. Any condition which results in an unhealthy condition,
that could bring diseases; or result in creating a breeding ground or area for
rodents, reptiles or creates a health hazard. Anything that gives off a
disgusting odor, appears to be impure, or any carrion.
   WEEDS. Weeds and grass, or either of them, exceeding 12 inches in height.
(Ord. 95-02, passed 2-20-1995)
§ 94.03 ACCUMULATION OR GROWTH OF WEEDS, RUBBISH, BRUSH, LITTER OR ANY OTHER
UNSIGHTLY, OBJECTIONABLE OR UNSANITARY MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any real property within
the municipality of the town to allow weeds, rubbish, brush, litter or any
other unsightly, objectionable or unsanitary matter to accumulate or grow
thereon.
(Ord. 95-02, passed 2-20-1995) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 NOTICE TO OWNERS; WORK BY OR AT THE DIRECTION OF THE MUNICIPALITY
CHARGING THE OWNER AND FIXING A LIEN, BRINGING A SUIT FOR FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   Where weeds, rubbish, brush, litter or any other unsightly,
objectionable, unsanitary matter has been allowed to accumulate or grow on any
real property within the municipality, and the owner of such real property
fails or refuses to keep the same free from weeds, rubbish, brush, litter or
any other unsightly, objectionable or unsanitary matter of whatever nature
within ten days after notice.
   (B)   The notice must be given:
      (1)   Personally to the owner in writing;
      (2)   By letter addressed to the owner at the owner’s post office
address; or
      (3)   If personal service cannot be obtained or the owner’s post office
address is unknown:
         (a)   By publication at least twice within ten consecutive days;
         (b)   By posting the notice on or near the front door of each building
on the property to which the violation relates; or
         (c)   By posting the notice on a placard attached to a stake driven
into the ground on the property to which the violation relates, if the property
contains no buildings. Said notice shall provide that if the owner commits
another violation of the same kind or nature that poses a danger to the public
health and safety on or before the first anniversary of the date of the notice,
the municipality may, without further notice, correct the violation as provided
in this section, at the owner’s expense and assess the expenses against the
property as provided in this section.
   (C)   If the owner of property in the municipality does not comply with a
municipal ordinance or requirement under this chapter within ten days’ of
notice of a violation, the municipality may:
      (1)   Do the work or make the improvements required and charge the
expenses to the owner of the property; or
      (2)   Pay for the work done or improvements made and charge the expenses
to the owner of the property.
   (D)   The Town Council may assess expenses incurred against the real estate
on which the work is done or improvement made. The Mayor, Municipal Health
Authority, or other municipal officer designated by the Mayor must file a
statement of expense with the County Clerk in which the town is located,
whereupon the town shall have a privileged lien on such real property, second
only to tax liens and liens for street improvements, to secure the expenditures
so made, and 10% interest on the amount from the date of such payment. For any
such expenditures and interest as aforesaid, suit may be instituted and
recovery and foreclosure had in the name of the town. The statement so made, as
aforesaid, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie proof of the
amount expended in any work or improvements.
(Ord. 95-02, passed 2-20-1995)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any owner or occupant of property in the municipality violating this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction therefor, shall be
assessed a fine not to exceed $500. Each day any such violation continues or
occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 95-02, passed 2-20-1995)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Open Burning
   
95.01   Adoption of Texas Administrative Code
   
95.02   General prohibition
   
95.03   Exceptions
   
95.04   Requirements for authorization
   
95.05   General requirements for burning
   
95.06   Parallel requirements
 
   
95.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 95.01 ADOPTION OF TEXAS ADMINISTRATIVE CODE.
   The town hereby adopts the outdoor burning rules as outlined in Tex.
Administrative Code, Title 30, Chapter 111, §§ 201 - 221 and this chapter. The
stricter of the two codes shall prevail.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 95.02 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No person may cause, suffer or permit any outdoor burning within the town
limits of the town, except as provided by this chapter. The burning of
household trash, garbage of any form, or municipal solid waste is prohibited
within the town limits. It shall also be unlawful for any person to light or
have lighted a fire in any street, alley, thoroughfare or public property
except for in cooking receptacles located in designated town parks and
municipal burning as discussed in §
95.03(D). Outdoor disposal or disposition of a material capable of igniting
spontaneously, except for storage of fossil fuels, shall not be allowed. No
furniture, construction/demolition materials, heavy oils, asphaltic materials,
potentially explosive materials, chemical wastes, and items containing natural
or synthetic rubber shall be burned.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-18-2017) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   Only fires under the conditions described below will be permitted:
   (A)   Fire training. Outdoor burning shall be authorized for training of
firefighting personnel when requested in writing and authorized by the Texas
Commission of Environmental Quality (TCEQ), Region 13, Air Program Manager or
appropriate TCEQ Official. The burning shall be authorized if notice of denial
is not received within 15 working days after the date of postmark or date of
personal delivery of the request.
   (B)   Domestic outdoor fires. Fires are allowed out-of-doors for cooking,
warmth, recreational or ceremonial purposes. These fires should be built in a
fireproof container, such as a barbeque pit or chimenea, or fire ring, and
should be made of brick, stone, metal, or other fireproof materials or in a
manner to contain the fire and prevent said fire from escaping. All the above
allowed outdoor burning must comply with §
95.02. Domestic outdoor fires do not require a burn permit. Requirements of §§
95.04 and 95.05 are not applicable.
   (C)   Land clearing. Burning of vegetation and/or brush in the clearing of
land or trimming of trees shall be allowed without a permit. All the above
allowed out-of-door burning must comply with §
95.02. Domestic outdoor fires do not require a burn permit. Vegetation and/or
brush shall be disposed of on property of origin or picked up by heavy trash
during regularly scheduled pickup. Note: Fires must also follow rules in §§
95.04 and 95.05.
   (D)   Municipal burning.  The town may burn vegetation and/or brush for
maintaining and/or clearing of right-of-way for streets and/or drainage. The
town may burn brush, trees and other plant growth causing a detrimental public
health and safety condition upon receiving site burn approval from the Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality, Region 13, Air Program Manager.
   (E)   Diseased animal carcasses. Diseased animal carcasses may be burned
when it is the best way to control spreading of diseases. Burning of diseased
animal carcasses may only occur on property of origin or municipal property.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 95.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR AUTHORIZATION.
   Permission is automatically on hold if a burn ban has been issued by the
County Commissioner’s Court or imposed by the Mayor through proclamation.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 95.05 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS FOR BURNING.
   (A)   The Police Chief or any town police officer, and/or Angleton Volunteer
Fire Department Fire Chief, his/her designee, or any other state or county law
enforcement officer may inspect the burn site and materials to ensure that no
prohibited materials are included and that general requirements are being
followed.
   (B)   If at any time the burning causes, or may tend to cause, smoke to blow
onto or across a street, or roadway, it is the responsibility of the person
initiating the burn to post flag persons on the affected roads.
   (C)   Fires must be kept downwind of or at least 50 feet away from any
adjoining property line or structure. If property is located partially inside
the town limits and partially outside the town limits, burning must occur on
the property out of the town limits.
   (D)   Burning shall not commence when the surface wind speed is predicted to
be less than six miles per hour (six miles per hour or five knots) or greater
than 23 miles per hour (23 mph or 20 knots) during the burn period.
   (E)   Burning shall not be conducted during periods of actual or predicted
low-level atmospheric temperature inversions. This includes days declared as
air quality days by the Environmental Protection Agency or other governing
authority.
   (F)   Burning may begin no earlier than one hour after sunrise and must end
the same day no later than one hour before sunset.
   (G)   A responsible party must be present at the burn site. Such person
shall have an adequate water supply or have other fire extinguishing equipment
readily available for use. The responsible party must have reliable means of
communication available to call for assistance, if it becomes necessary.
   (H)   Any residual fires and/or smoldering objects that continue to emit
smoke must be extinguished at the end of the burn.
   (I)   Only brush/vegetation generated and gathered from the burn site area
will be permitted. There shall be no importation of brush from any other
properties for burning.
   (J)   Burning of material not contained must be in areas of not more than
three feet by three feet and not more than three feet in height.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-18-2017) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 PARALLEL REQUIREMENTS.
   The authority to conduct outdoor burning under this subchapter does not
exempt or excuse the requestor from complying with all other applicable laws or
ordinances, regulations, and orders of any governmental entity having
jurisdiction, even though the burning is otherwise conducted in compliance with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-18-2017)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Violators of §§
95.01 through
95.06 shall be issued a citation and upon conviction for such violation shall
be punished by a penalty of not less than $10 nor more than $2,000.
(Ord. 2017-04, passed 4-18-2017)
CHAPTER 96: CULVERTS, PARKING, AND OBSTRUCTIONS IN DITCHES
Section
   
96.01   Short title
   
96.02   Culvert requirements
   
96.03   Parking
   
96.04   Exceptions
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Ditch and Culvert
Chapter of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.”
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 96.02 CULVERT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person may install, build, construct, repair or replace a private
driveway connecting to a public street or across a public easement unless a
culvert is installed in accordance with the following specifications:
   (A)   New culverts.
      (1)   The Brazoria County Road and Bridge Department will set driveway
culverts at the request of the town only. Residents wishing to set their own
culverts must first contact Dig Tess 1- (800) 354-8377 or 811 for a line locate
request. Failure to complete a dig locate request shall be grounds for issuance
of a citation, and liability for damages, should any occur.
      (2)   They will not set culverts in rights-of-way for state roads or on
private roads.
      (3)   Residents wishing new culverts to be set are required to furnish
reinforced concrete pipe 18-inches in diameter, or larger, as determined by
town personnel. Reasonable notice from resident is required.
      (4)   Brazoria County Road and Bridge will cover the culvert with soil or
other material available on the site at the time culvert is set. Any material
other than what was dug out must be purchased by the resident and on site at
time of installation. Brazoria County Road and Bridge will not return to spread
materials later that day or on a different day.
   (B)   Existing culverts. When drainage projects are undertaken by the town,
culverts may be enlarged if necessary, and replaced with reinforced concrete
pipe at the town's expense. Provided your culverts are currently in compliance
with all ordinances in force at time of the improvement. Installation will be
completed as follows:
      (1)   Culverts covered with base material will be re-covered with base
material;
      (2)   Asphalt or concrete removed will be replaced with asphalt; and
      (3)   When the town undertakes projects to re-surface road with asphalt,
asphalt will be tapered on the outside edge of pavement at existing driveways
to avoid abrupt drop off.
   (C)   Culvert installation.
      (1)   Stake or mark the ditch where you would like to have the culvert(s)
set. Contact Town Hall and we will send out a representative to measure the
ditch; and you will be notified of the correct size of reinforced concrete pipe
you need to purchase.
      (2)   Once the size is determined, you will need to order the reinforced
concrete culvert pipe, and have them delivered to the site. You may purchase
them from the town or from any vendor you desire.
      (3)   If you desire, you may order road surface material for your culvert
such as crushed limestone base, crushed concrete, etc., and you must have it
delivered to the site.
      (4)   After all materials are delivered to the site, notify the town and
we will put in a work order to have the culvert(s) installed.
      (5)   Once the town is notified we will contact Brazoria County. They
will present the request to Commissioners Court for approval. Once approved,
the order for installation will be sent to Brazoria County Road and Bridge for
placement on their schedule.
   (D)   Driveway surface.
      (1)   The resident's contractor may add asphalt or concrete surfacing
over a driveway culvert at the resident's expense. Contractors shall insure
alignment of culvert pipe(s) is/are not altered during such operation.
      (2)   If resident's contractor adds concrete surfacing; an expansion
joint shall be provided two feet beyond outer edge of pipe on each end of
culvert pipe, to facilitate removal of concrete as may be necessary to enlarge
pipe during drainage improvement projects.
      (3)   No concrete shall be placed within 11 feet of roadway center line.
   (E)   Costs. Property owner will be required to purchase culvert(s), and any
material to cover them, however; there is no cost to have the culvert(s)
installed.
   (F)   Standard driveway size. The standard driveway typically is 20 feet. A
driveway of 48 feet or wider will need to have a clean out, with one every 48
feet. The smallest allowable driveway is 18 feet wide.
   (G)   Required material. If you want something other than dirt/soil, for a
standard driveway at 20 feet, it will take one load (14 to 15 yards, sometimes
called a tandem load). Limestone only will take about one load. If you want
part stabilized sand and limestone, then you would get half stabilized sand and
half limestone. For crushed concrete (rock) it would be about one load for 14
to 15-feet of coverage.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 96.03 PARKING.
   (A)   No vehicle shall park within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or flush
valve within the corporate limits of the town.
   (B)   No person may place, cause to be placed, or deposit an obstruction in
any ditch in the town, including but not limited to, dirt, sand, gravel, brush,
tree limbs, leaves, motor vehicles, and/or other tangible property. Debris
deposited for heavy trash pickup shall not be placed more than two weeks prior
to scheduled pickup.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to division (B) of this section if the
sand, dirt, or gravel is used only to cover a culvert and if such culvert is
installed as required by §
96.02.
   (D)   All roadways must have 15 feet unobstructed passageway for emergency
equipment.
   (E)   All commercial vehicles and trailers shall have a permit, unless
making local deliveries. This permit will have a cost of $20 per year for each
vehicle or trailer and must be posted in plain view.
   (F)   All vehicles must park by crossing over a culvert or parked over a
culvert, and not on the edge of the roadway, in or across a ditch. Driving
through ditches is not permitted.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 96.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   Following exceptions will be permitted on parking:
   (A)   Deliveries. Allowances will be made for delivery trucks. Delivery
trucks will be allowed an exception up to one hour unless prior approval as
obtained from City Hall or the Police Department.
   (B)   Lawn care. Will be allowed an exception as long as they do not create
a traffic hazard. Operators will make every effort to keep their vehicles off
the paved portion of roadways as much as possible. If there is a side street
adjacent to where they are working they should park on the side street.
   (C)   Funerals. Residence where a family member has passed will be allowed
an exception of up to five days.
   (D)   Large parties. Large parties where there will be more than ten
vehicles in addition to the usual resident's vehicles must obtain a permit at
least 72 hours in advance. Permit must be approved by Mayor and Police Chief.
Operators of vehicles will make every effort to keep their vehicles off the
paved portion of roadways as much as possible.
   (E)   All the exceptions listed above are required to park on one side of
the road only.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 12-5-2017)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 and each day a
violation continues or occurs is a separate offense.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 12-5-2017)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Peddler or solicitor defined
   
110.03   Permit required
   
110.04   Application for permit
   
110.05   Issuance and duration of permit
   
110.06   Permit fees
   
110.07   Permit to be carried on person
   
110.08   Revocation of permit
   
110.09   Surety bond required
   
110.10   Refusal to leave premises prohibited
   
110.11   No peddling where posted
   
110.12   Hours when peddling not permitted
   
110.13   Exemptions
   
110.14   Savings clause
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is and shall be deemed an exercise of the police powers of the
state and of the town for the public safety, comfort, convenience and
protection of the town and the citizens thereof, and all of the provisions of
this chapter shall be constructed to accomplish this purpose.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 110.02 PEDDLER OR SOLICITOR DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, a PEDDLER or SOLICITOR shall mean any
person, partnership, firm or corporation going from house to house or from
place to place in the town soliciting, exhibiting, selling, canvassing for or
taking orders for, or offering to sell or take orders for any goods, wares,
merchandise, foods and subscriptions to magazines, publications, newspapers,
photographs or services. The same shall also include any persons, partnerships,
firms or corporations soliciting, exhibiting, selling, taking orders for, or
offering to sell or take orders for such goods, wares, merchandise, food,
publications or services upon or from a truck or other vehicle whether on the
streets or from any property whatsoever in the town, whether public or private.
Also, anyone who solicits orders and, as a separate transaction makes
deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade these
provisions shall be deemed a PEDDLER or SOLICITOR. The terms PEDDLER and
SOLICITOR shall also be synonymous with ITINERANT MERCHANT and TRANSIENT
VENDOR, as well as each other.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 110.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, firm or corporation to
peddle, sell, solicit, exhibit or take orders for or offer to take orders for
any goods, wares, merchandise, food or subscriptions to magazines,
publications, newspapers, photographs or services without first having obtained
a permit to do so from the town, except as provided for in §
110.04.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Every person desiring to obtain a permit or registration certificate as
required by this chapter shall make written application to the Town Secretary,
and which application shall show at least the following:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   The name and address of the person which such applicant represents;
   (C)   The applicant’ s date of birth, Social Security number and driver’s
license number;
   (D)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony or a
misdemeanor involving theft, fraud, bribery or perjury;
   (E)   The name of the immediate last preceding three towns in which he or
she worked, if any;
   (F)   The kind of goods, wares and merchandise offered or to be offered for
sale;
   (G)   Whether such applicant, upon any such order so obtained, will demand,
accept or receive payment or deposit of money in advance of final delivery;
   (H)   Each applicant shall attach a recent photographic likeness of
applicant’s face as well as any assistants working with him or her;
   (I)   Each application shall have satisfactory proof of applicant to
represent the company or individual such applicant so states that he or she
represents; and
   (J)   Each application shall have attached a copy of a valid state sales tax
permit.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 110.05 ISSUANCE AND DURATION OF PERMIT.
   Upon approval of application, the Town Secretary shall issue a vendor’s
permit. No permit shall be issued prior to the expiration of 72 hours after the
filing of the application. All permits issued shall be valid for a period of
one year, unless sooner revoked.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 110.06 PERMIT FEES.
   Each and every person seeking a permit under the provisions herein shall pay
an application fee of $100. Such fee shall be paid by the person desiring such
permit and shall be payable at the time of the application. This fee shall be
charged to help defray the cost of administration incident to said permit. This
fee shall not be prorated or refunded to the applicant regardless of whether or
not a permit is issued.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 110.07 PERMIT TO BE CARRIED ON PERSON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to do business
within the town unless he or she carries such permit on him or her at all
times.
   (B)   Every peddler or solicitor shall display his or her permit upon
request of any person, and failure to do so shall be grounds for revocation or
constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.08 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   If, after the permit as hereinbefore provided, has been issued and the town
finds that the permit was obtained by false representation in the application,
or that the permit holder has committed any act or practice that violates Tex.
Business and Commerce Code, §§ 17.46 et seq., otherwise known as the Texas
Deceptive Trade Practice Act or any act or practice which violates the Home
Solicitation Sales Act (Tex. Business and Commerce Code, Chapter 601) or the
commission, during the term of the permit, of any crime or misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or any violation of the section of any other town
ordinance or state or federal law, such permit may be revoked.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 110.09 SURETY BOND REQUIRED.
   In the event the application shows the applicant is to take orders for
future delivery, he or she shall give bond signed as surety by some surety
company authorized to do business in the state, conditioned for the final
delivery of goods, wares, merchandise, food, photographs, publications or
services in accordance with the terms of such order obtained and also
conditioned to indemnify any and all purchases or customers for any and all
defects in material or workmanship that may exist in the articles, sold by the
principal in such bond, at the time of delivery, that may be discovered by such
purchaser or customer within 30 days after delivery. Such bond shall be in the
sum of not less than $1,000, and shall remain in full force and effect for the
entire duration of the license permit.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 110.10 REFUSAL TO LEAVE PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   Any peddler or solicitor who enters upon premises owned or occupied by any
person and willfully refuses to leave said premises, after having been notified
by the owner or tenant of said premises, or his or her agent, to leave the same
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 110.11 NO PEDDLING WHERE POSTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to enter upon any private
premises when the same is posted with a sign stating “No Peddlers Allowed” or
“No Solicitation Allowed” or other words to such effect.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.12 HOURS WHEN PEDDLING NOT PERMITTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler to engage in the business of peddling
at any time between the hours of sunset and 30 minutes after sunrise, except
when the peddler has specific invitation and appointment with a customer.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.13 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to persons engaged in the
following sales or delivery of goods and services, provided, however, that it
shall be unlawful for persons to go from house to house or place to place in
the town, without having first registered at Town Hall.
   (A)   Sales of goods, wares, merchandise, publications and/or services by
any bonafide charitable, religious, educational or philanthropic organization
or when donated by owners or merchants of which the proceeds are to be used and
applied to some charitable, religious, educational or philanthropic purposes.
   (B)   Ordinary commercial travelers who sell or exhibit for sale goods,
wares, merchandise, food, photographs, publications or services to firms,
persons or corporations engaged in the business of buying, selling and dealing
in the same.
   (C)   Daily deliveries of milk and bakery and other food products or
newspaper; or the sale or delivery of home grown food products (the term HOME
GROWN, as used herein means a food product which is grown locally in a garden,
orchard or field, and the term “locally” as used herein means within the
state).
   (D)   Insurance salespeople, real estate salespeople and other professionals
licensed by the state.
   (E)   Persons engaged in interstate commerce. The term INTERSTATE COMMERCE
means soliciting, selling or taking orders for or offering to take orders for
any goods, wares, merchandise, photographs, publications or services, or acting
in any function as a peddler or solicitor, as the terms are used in this
section, which, at the time the order is taken, are in or will be produced in
any federal district or territory, any commonwealth, or any state other than
the state, and shipped or introduced into this town in the fulfillment of such
orders.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.14 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Should any clause, section or provision of this chapter be declared
unconstitutional and void by a court of competent jurisdiction such decision
shall in no way affect the validity of the remaining parts, save the clause,
section or part held unconstitutional is inseparable from and indispensable by
the operation of the remaining parts. The Town Council of the town hereby
declares that they would have passed those parts which are valid and would have
rejected those parts which may have been held invalid had they known that such
part or parts were void and unconstitutional at the passage of this chapter.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Should any person, firm or corporation violate the terms or provisions of
this ordinance, such person, firm or corporation shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof by a court of competent jurisdiction
shall be fined in any sum, not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 96-05, passed 7-22-1996)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
111.01   Hours for sale of beer, wine and mixed beverages
§ 111.01 HOURS FOR SALE OF BEER, WINE AND MIXED BEVERAGES.
   (A)   BEER, WINE and MIXED BEVERAGES. Shall have the same meaning set forth
in Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code, §1.04.
   (B)   The extended hours prescribed in Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code, §§
105.04 and 105.05(c) are effective in the town to allow the holder of a retail
dealers on premise late hours’ license to sell, offer for sale, and deliver
beer and wine between midnight and 2:00 a.m. on any day.
   (C)   The extended hours prescribed in Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code, §
105.03(c) are in effect in the town to allow the holder of a mixed beverage
late hours permit to sell and offer for sale mixed beverages between midnight
and 2:00 a.m. in any day.
   (D)   Unless specifically provided otherwise in a conditional use permit at
the time of issuance or renewal, each valid and unexpired conditional use
permit for on premises consumption of beer, wine and mixed beverages granted
prior to the adoption of this section shall be deemed amended to sell beer,
wine and mixed beverages for on premises consumption during the extended hours
authorized by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
   (E)   The Town Council shall review and consider the effectiveness of this
chapter and its impacts on the community at its discretion.
   (F)   The town reserves the right to repeal this section at any time. This
section does not create and shall not be construed to create any enforceable
right to the continuation of this section or any right to receive compensation
for any loss, damages, costs, or expenses alleged to have been incurred in
reliance upon its adoption or suffered as a result of its repeal. The
authorization to sell beer, wine, or mixed beverages for on premise consumption
during the extended hours adopted by this section under any condition use
permit expires upon the repeal of this section.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 4-11-2017)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
      
131.   SEX OFFENDERS
CHAPTER 130: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Short title
   
130.02   Purpose
   
130.03   Discharge of weapons
   
130.04   Intoxicating substances
   
130.05   Noise control
   
130.06   Abandoned iceboxes and refrigerators, removal of door or lock required
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Nuisance Ordinance of
the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas”.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 130.02 PURPOSE.
   The primary function and intent of this chapter is protection of the health,
safety and welfare of the people of the town by controlling nuisances.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AIR GUN. Any device designed, made or adapted to expel a projectile
through a barrel by means of compressed air, compressed gas, springs or any
other means, except when accompanied by an adult who is 18 years of age or
older, and operated in a safe manner.
      FIRE ARM. Any device designed, made or adapted to expel a projectile
through a barrel by using the energy generated by an explosion or burning
substance or any device readily convertible to that use.
   (B)   Rules of procedure. In any prosecution under this section in the
Municipal Court or any other court of competent jurisdiction, the complaint
charging the violation of this section need not negate the existence of any
exception contained herein but the existence of the same may be raised by the
defendant in any such prosecution by way of defense.
   (C)   Discharge of fire arms prohibited.
      (1)   From and after the effective date of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to discharge a fire arm within the corporate limits of
the town.
      (2)   It is an exception to the application of subsection (1) if the
person discharging such fire arm is a peace officer within the meaning of Tex.
Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 2.12 and such person is actually engaged in
the performance of his or her official duties as such or the person discharging
such fire arm is actually engaged in the defense of his or her person or
property or the person or property of a third person.
   (D)   Discharge of air guns prohibited.
      (1)   From and after the effective date of this section, it shall be
unlawful for any person to discharge any air gun within the corporate limits of
the town.
      (2)   It is an exception to the application of subsection (1) if the air
gun in question is not capable of discharging a projectile at a velocity of 300
feet per second or more, or is not a caliber over .177.
   (E)   Generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot or cause to be
discharged or ejected from any air gun, air rifle, air pistol, spring gun or
rifle, spring pistol, pellet gun, sling or any similar contrivance, any bullet,
shot, pellet or missile of any character from or onto any street or public
place or onto the private premises of another within the town limits.
(Ord. 97-10, passed 10-20-1997; Ord. 2006-06, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 INTOXICATING SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Definition. As used in this section, the term INTOXICATING SUBSTANCE
means any substance other than alcohol capable of producing in any individual a
degree of intoxication which may endanger such individual or another and which
would justify an arrest under Tex. Penal Code, § 49.02, if such individual were
to appear in a public place under the influence of such substance to such
degree.
   (B)   Possession. No person shall possess any intoxicating substance other
than alcohol.
   (C)   Exception. This section does not apply to the possession of
intoxicating substances when the possession is specifically authorized or
prohibited by state law.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Any loud, irritating, vexing or disturbing noise which causes
distress, annoyance, discomfort or injury to, or which interferes with the
comfort and repose of any person of normal nervous sensibilities in the
vicinity or hearing thereof, is declared to be a “noise nuisance”, and is
unlawful and prohibited.
   (B)   The following acts, among others not hereinafter enumerated, are
declared to be “noise nuisances” unlawful, and in violation of the provisions
of this section when such acts are done or accomplished or carried on in such a
manner or with such volume, intensity, or with continued duration, so as to
annoy, to distress, or to disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of, persons of
reasonable nervous sensibilities within the vicinity or hearing thereof:
      (1)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, juke box, nickelodeon or any
musical instrument;
      (2)   Any loud or vociferous language or any soliciting for, or
description of, any amusement house, moving picture theater or other like place
of amusement, or for the performance therein, in the entrance thereto, the
foyer or lobby thereof, or on the sidewalks adjoining the same;
      (3)   The keeping of any animal, fowl or bird which makes frequent or
long, continued noise;
      (4)   The continued or frequent sounding of any horn or other signal
device on any automobile or vehicle, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle, except
as a danger signal;
      (5)   The running of any motor of any automobile or vehicle, motorcycle
or other motor vehicle so out of repair, or so loaded, or so operated, as to
create loud, grating, grinding, jarring or rattling noise vibrations;
      (6)   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine, automobile, motorcycle or other motor
vehicle or boat, except through a muffler or other device which prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom;
      (7)   The crying, calling or shouting, in person or by a mechanical
device, or the use of any whistle, rattle, bell, gong, clapper, hammer, drum,
horn, loudspeaker or phonograph with or without an amplifier, hand organ or
other devices or instruments, musical or otherwise, for the purpose of
advertising any candidates for elective office, any goods, wares or
merchandise, or for the purpose of attracting attention to or inviting persons
to any political rally, meeting or gathering, to any place of amusement, to any
performance or show, or to any business or activity whatsoever; and
      (8)   The raucous shouting, whistling, yelling, singing, hooting or
crying of peddlers, hawkers, vendors or any other persons.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to create or cause any noise
nuisance within the corporate limits of the town. It shall be unlawful for any
person to permit or allow to be created or caused a noise nuisance within the
corporate limits of the town.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 ABANDONED ICEBOXES AND REFRIGERATORS, REMOVAL OF DOOR OR LOCK
REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or permit to remain outside of
any dwelling, building or other structure, or within any unoccupied or
abandoned building, dwelling or other structure under his control, in a place
accessible to children, any abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox,
refrigerator or other container, which has an air-tight door or lid, snaplock
or other locking device which may not be released from the inside, without
first removing such door, lid, snaplock or other locking device from such
icebox, refrigerator, or container.
(Ord. 2006-06, passed 3-20-2006) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon convictions thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $500, and that each day any such violation occurs or continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 97-10, passed 10-20-1997; Ord. 2006-06, passed 3-20-2006)
CHAPTER 131: SEX OFFENDERS
Section
   
131.01   Findings and intent
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Residence prohibition; exceptions
   
131.04   Property owners prohibited from renting property to sex offenders
   
131.05   Savings clause
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders that use physical violence
and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who present an
extreme threat to the public safety. Sexual offenders are extremely likely to
use physical violence and to repeat their offenses and most sexual offenders
commit many offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported, and are
prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes.
   (B)   This makes the cost of sexual offender victimization to society at
large, while incalculable, clearly exorbitant.
   (C)   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the town’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the town by creating areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers wherein certain sexual offenders
and sexual predators are prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent
residences.
(Ord. 2005-09, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges or resides for
a period of 14 or more consecutive days.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges, resides for a
period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which
is not the person’s permanent address, or a place where the person routinely
abides, resides or lodges for a period of four or more consecutive or non-
consecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
(Ord. 2005-09, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 131.03 RESIDENCE PROHIBITION; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person who has been convicted of a violation of
Tex. Penal Code, Art. 43.25, Tex. Penal Code, Art. 43.26, Tex. Penal Code, Art.
21.08, Tex. Penal Code, Art. 21.11,Tex. Penal Code, § 21.011, Tex. Penal Code,
§ 22.021 and Tex. Penal Code, Art. 25.02, regardless of whether the
adjudication was deferred, in which the victim of the offense was less than 16
years of age, to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence within
1,000 feet of any premises where children commonly gather, including, but not
limited to, a school, day care facility, playground, public or private youth
center, public swimming pool, or video arcade facility, as those terms are
defined in Tex. Health and Safety Code, Art. 481.134.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent or temporary residence to the nearest property
line of the premises where children commonly gather, as described herein.
   (C)   Exceptions: a person residing within 1,000 feet of those places where
children commonly gather, as specified herein does not commit a violation of
this chapter if any of the following apply:
      (1)   The person established the permanent or temporary residence and has
complied with all the sex offender registration laws of the state, prior to the
date of the adoption of this chapter;
      (2)   The person was a minor when he or she committed the offense and was
not convicted as an adult;
      (3)   The person is a minor; or
      (4)   The premises where children commonly gather, as specified herein,
within 1,000 feet of the person’s permanent or temporary residence was opened
after the person established the permanent or temporary residence and complied
with all sex offender registration laws of the state.
(Ord. 2005-09, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04 PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING PROPERTY TO SEXUAL OFFENDERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure or part thereof,
manufactured home, trailer or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will
be used as a permanent residence or temporary residence by any person
prohibited from establishing such permanent residence or temporary residence
pursuant to the terms of this chapter, if such place, structure or part
thereof, manufactured home, trailer or other conveyance, is located within
1,000 feet of any premises where children commonly gather, including but not
limited to, a school, day care facility, playground, public or private youth
center, public swimming pool, or video arcade facility, as those terms are
defined in Tex. Health and Safety Code, Art. 481.134.
(Ord. 2005-09, passed 12-28-2005) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   (A)   This chapter is cumulative of and in addition to all other ordinances
of the town, on the same subject; provided, however, where this chapter and
other ordinances shall conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more
stringent regulations or penalties, as the case may be, shall prevail.
   (B)   Forfeiture or penalty incurred prior to the effective date of this
chapter is to be affected by the adoption of this chapter but the punishment
for any offense committed and the recovery of any fines or forfeitures incurred
prior to such date shall take place as if this chapter had not been adopted.
The ordinances repealed herein remain in effect solely for the purpose of
enforcement for offenses occurring prior to the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-09, passed 12-28-2005)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $500.
(Ord. 2005-09, passed 12-28-2005)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
152.   MOBILE HOMES, TRAILERS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
153.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Substandard Buildings
   
150.01   Adoption
   
150.02   Authority regarding substandard buildings
   
150.03   Minimum standards
   
150.04   Notice to owner
   
150.05   Public hearing
   
150.06   Additional authority to secure substandard building
   
150.07   Judicial review
   
150.08   Additional authority regarding substandard buildings
   
150.09   Requiring repair, removal or demolition of building or other structure
   
150.10   Incorporation by reference
Plumbing Code
   
150.25   Adoption
   
150.26   Prohibited practices
   
150.27   Permit
 
   
150.99   Penalty
SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
§ 150.01 ADOPTION.
   It is the intent of the Town Council to adopt Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Chapter
214, by reference as if set forth herein word for word.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004)
§ 150.02 AUTHORITY REGARDING SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS.
   The town hereby requires the vacation, relocation of occupants, securing
repair, removal or demolition of a building that is:
   (A)   Dilapidated, substandard or unfit for human habitation and a hazard to
the public health, safety and welfare;
   (B)   Regardless of its structural condition, unoccupied by its owners,
lessees or other invitees and is unsecured from unauthorized entry to the
extent that, it could be entered or used by vagrants or other uninvited persons
as a place of harborage or could be entered or used by children; or
   (C)   Boarded up, fenced or otherwise secured in any manner if:
      (1)   The building constitutes a danger to the public even though secured
from entry; or
      (2)   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building in the manner described by division
(B) above.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004)
§ 150.03 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   All windows, doors or any other means to entry and exit shall be able
to be secured to prevent unauthorized entry into the structure. The roof shall
be maintained to prevent any substantial leaks.
   (B)   The walls and ceiling shall be maintained so that no component of said
walls or ceilings, neither sags or deviates more than six inches from the
normal position. Walls and ceilings must not have any single opening, other
than those for entry/exit or utility line, that are over six inches in their
greatest dimension (direction).
   (C)   The floors shall be maintained so as to support normal household goods
and human traffic upon them. Floors shall not sag or deviate from their normal
position more than six inches.
   (D)   There shall be no opening on the outside of the structure that would
allow any warm blooded creature or reptile to enter the structure. An access
specifically installed for domesticated pets will be the only exception to the
above.
   (E)   All structures that are occupied by human inhabitants must have a
lawful connection to running potable (drinking) water, a lawful connection to
electricity and a lawful connection to a working sewage treatment system.
   (F)   If a habitation is disconnected from any of the above three
connections in division (E) above for more than 14 days for any reason, the
structure must be vacated until all three utilities are restored.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   The owner(s) of any building alleged to be a dangerous structure or
substandard building shall receive written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested to the address of the building in question and to the last
known address as indicated on the tax records for the town, the town shall also
send a copy of it by regular mail at the above address. A certificate under
oath by the person mailing it to the owner(s) on behalf of the town is presumed
to be valid notice.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004)
§ 150.05 PUBLIC HEARING.
   The Town Council shall conduct a public hearing to determine whether a
building complies with the standards.
   (A)   A notice of a hearing shall be sent to an owner, lien holder or
mortgagee and must include a statement that owner, lien holder or mortgagee
will be required to submit at the hearing proof of the scope of work that may
be required to comply with this subchapter and the time it will/may take to
reasonably perform the work.
   (B)   The public hearing shall be held at the next scheduled Town Council
meeting or special meeting as determined by the Town Council
   (C)   After the public hearing, if a building is found in violation of
standards set out in this subchapter, the town may order that the building be
vacated, secured, repaired, removed or demolished by the owner within a
reasonable time as provided by this section.
      (1)   The town may order that the occupants be relocated within a
reasonable amount of time. If the owner does not take the ordered action within
the allotted time, the town shall make a diligent effort to discover each
mortgagee and lien holder having an interest in the building or in the property
on which the building is located.
      (2)   The town shall send to each identified mortgagee and lien holder a
notice containing:
         (a)   An identification which is not required to be a legal
description, of the building and the property on which it is located;
         (b)   A description of the violation of town standards that is present
at the building; and
         (c)   A statement that the town will vacate, secure, remove or
demolish the building or relocate the occupants of the building if the action
is not taken within a reasonable time.
   (D)   As an alternative to the procedure prescribed by division (C) above,
the town may make a diligent effort to discover each mortgagee and lien holder
before conducting the public hearing and may give them a notice of and an
opportunity to comment at the hearing. In addition the town may file notice of
the hearing containing the name and address of the owner of the affected
property if that information can be determined from a reasonable search of the
instrument on file in the office of the County Clerk, a legal description of
the affected property, and a description of the hearing. The filing of the
notice is binding on subsequent grantees, lien holder or other transferees of
an interest in the property who acquires such interest after the filing of the
notice. The order issued by the town may specify a reasonable time as provided
by this section, for the building to be vacated, secured, or repaired but is
not required to furnish any notice to a mortgagee or lien holder other than a
copy of the order in the event the owner fails to timely take the ordered
action.
   (E)   Within ten days after the date that the order is issued, the town
shall:
      (1)   File a copy of the order in the office of the Town Secretary; and
      (2)   Publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the town which the
building is located a notice containing:
         (a)   The street address or legal description of the property;
         (b)   The date of the hearing;
         (c)   A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and
         (d)   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
   (F)   After the hearing, the town shall promptly mail by certified mail,
return receipt requested, a copy of the order to the owner of the building, and
if the owner does not take the ordered action within the specified time, the
town shall promptly mail by certified mail, return receipt requested, a copy or
the order to any lien holder or mortgagee of the building. The town shall use
the records in the office of the County Clerk in the county in which the
building is located to determine, if possible, the identity and address of any
owner, lien holder or mortgagee of the building.
   (G)   In conducting a hearing authorized under this section, the town shall
require the owner, lien holder, or mortgagee of the building to within 30 days:
      (1)   Secure the building from authorized entry; or
      (2)   Repair, remove or demolish the building, unless the owner or lien
holder established at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be performed
within 30 days.
   (H)   If the town allows the owner, lien holder, or mortgagee more than 30
days to repair, remove or demolish the building, the town shall establish
specific time schedules for the commencement and performance of the work and
shall require the owner, lien holder or mortgagee to secure the property in a
reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the work is being performed, as
determined by the hearing official.
   (I)   The town may not allow the owner, lien holder or mortgagee more than
90 days to repair, remove or demolish the building or fully perform all work
required to comply with the order unless the owner, lien holder or mortgagee;
      (1)   Submits a detailed plan, and time schedule for the work at the
hearing: and
      (2)   Establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
completed within 90 days because of the scope and complexity of the work.
   (J)   If the town allows the owner, lien holder or mortgagee more than 90
days to complete any part of the work required to repair, remove or demolish
the building the town shall require the owner, lien holder or mortgagee to
report to Council monthly on the progress of the project.
   (K)   In a public hearing to determine whether a building complies with the
standards set out in this subchapter, the owner, lien holder or mortgagee has
the burden of proof to demonstrate the scope of work that may be required to
comply with this subchapter and the time it take to reasonably perform the
work.
   (L)   If the building is not vacated, secured, repair, removed or demolished
or the occupants are not relocated, within the allotted time, the town may
vacate, secure, remove or demolish the building or relocate the occupants at
its own expense.
   (M)   If the town incurs expenses under division (L) above, the town may
assess the expenses on, and the town has a lien against, unless it is a
homestead as protected by the State Constitution, the property on which the
building was located. The lien is extinguished if the property owner or another
person having an interest in the legal title to the property reimburses the
town for the expenses. The lien arises and attaches to the property at the time
of the lien is recorded and indexed in the office of the county in which the
property is located. The notice must contain the name and address of the owner
if that information can be determined with a reasonable effort, a legal
description of the real property on which the building was located, the amount
of expenses incurred by the town and the balance due.
   (N)   If notice is given and the opportunity to repair, remove or demolish
the building is afforded to each mortgagee and lien holder as authorized by
divisions (C) and (D) above, the lien is a privileged lien subordinate only to
tax lien and all previously recorded bona fide mortgage liens attached to the
property to which the town lien attaches.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004)
§ 150.06 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO SECURE SUBSTANDARD BUILDING.
   (A)   The town may secure a building that it determines:
      (1)   Violates the minimum standards set out and herein above by
reference; and
      (2)   Is unoccupied or is occupied only by persons who do not have a
right of possession to the building.
   (B)   Before the eleventh day after the date the building is secured, the
town shall give notice to owner by:
      (1)   Personally serving the owner with written notice;
      (2)   Depositing the notice in the United States mail addressed to the
owner at the owner’s post office address;
      (3)   Publishing the notice at least twice within a ten-day period in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the building is located
if personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office address is
unknown; or
      (4)   Posting the notice on or near the front door of the building if
personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office address is
unknown.
   (C)   The notice must contain:
      (1)   An identification, which is not required to be a legal description,
of the building and the property on which it is located; and
      (2)   An explanation of the owner’s entitlement to request a hearing
about any matter relating to the town securing building.
   (D)   The town shall conduct a hearing at which the owner may testify or
present witnesses or written information about any matter relating to the town
securing of the building if, within 30 days after the date the town secures the
building, the owner files with the town a written request for the hearing. The
town shall conduct the hearing within 20 days after the date the request is
filed.
   (E)   The town has the same authority to assess expenses under this section,
as it has to assess expenses under §
150.05(M). A lien is created under this section in the same manner that a lien
is created under §
150.05(M), and is subject to the same conditions as a lien created under that
section.
   (F)   The authority granted by this section is in addition to that granted
by §
150.05.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004)
§ 150.07 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   The town hereby adopts by reference as if set forth herein word for word
Tex. Local Gov’t Code, § 214.0012 in its entirety.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004)
§ 150.08 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY REGARDING SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In addition to the authority set out herein above, the town, after the
expiration of the time allotted under §
150.05(A), (B) and (C) for the repair, removal or demolition of a building, the
town may:
      (1)   Repair the building at the expense of the town and assess the
expenses on the land on which the building stands or to which it is attached
and may provide for that assessment, the mode and manner of giving notice, and
the means of recovering the repair expenses; or
      (2)   Assess a civil penalty against the property owner for failure to
repair, remove or demolish the building and provide for that assessment, the
mode and manner of giving notice, and the means of recovering the assessment.
   (B)   The town may repair a building under division (A) above only to the
extent necessary to bring into compliance with the minimum standards and only
if the building is a residential building with ten or fewer dwelling units. The
repairs may not improve the building to the extent that the building exceeds
minimum housing standards.
   (C)   The town shall impose a lien against the land on which the building
stands or stood, unless it is a homestead as protected by the State
Constitution, to secure the payment of the repair, removal or demolition
expenses or the civil penalty.
      (1)   Promptly after the imposition of the lien, the town must file for
record, in recordable form in the office of the County Clerk in which the land
is located, a written notice of the imposition of lien.
      (2)   The notice must contain a legal description of land.
   (D)   Except as provided by §
150.05, the town’s lien to secure the payment of a civil penalty or the cost of
repairs, removal or demolition is inferior to any previously recorded bona fide
mortgage lien attached to the real property to which the town’s lien attaches
if the mortgage lien was filed for record in the office of the County Clerk of
the county in which the real property is located before the date the civil
penalty is assessed or the repair, removal or demolition is begun by the town.
The town’s lien is superior to all other previously recorded judgment liens.
   (E)   In any judicial proceeding regarding enforcement of town rights under
this section, the prevailing party is entitled to recover reasonable attorney’s
fees from the nonprevailing party.
   (F)   A lien acquired under this section by the town for repair expenses may
not be foreclosed if the property on which the repairs were made is occupied as
a residential homestead by a person 65 years of age or older.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004)
§ 150.09 REQUIRING REPAIR, REMOVAL OR DEMOLITION OF BUILDING OR OTHER
STRUCTURE.
   (A)   If any building, fence, shed, awning or other structure, is found by
the town likely to endanger persons or property, the Town Council may:
      (1)   Order the owner of the structure, the owner’s agent or the owner or
occupant of the property on which the structure is located to repair, remove or
demolish the structure, within a specified time; or
      (2)   Repair, remove or demolish the structure or the part of the
structure, at the expense of the town, on behalf of the owner of the property
on which the structure is located, and assess the repair, removal or demolition
expenses on the property on which the structure was located.
   (B)   All expenses incurred by the town in the repair, removal or demolition
of the structure under division (A)(2) above shall be assessed on the land, on
which the structure stands or to which it is attached.
   (C)   Within ten days after the assessment is made the town shall give
notice to the owner by:
      (1)   Personally serving the owner with written notice;
      (2)   Depositing in the United States mail addressed to the owner at the
owner’s post office address;
      (3)   Publishing the notice at least twice within a ten-day period in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the building is located
if personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office address is
unknown; or
      (4)   Posting the notice on or near the front door of the building if
personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office address is
unknown.
   (D)   The expenses shall be recovered as follows:
      (1)   The town shall impose a lien against the land on which the building
stands or stood, unless it is a homestead as protected by the State
Constitution, to secure the payment of the repair, removal, or demolition
expenses or the civil penalty. Promptly after the imposition of the lien, the
town must file for record, in recordable form in the office of the County Clerk
in which the land is located, a written notice of the imposition of the lien.
The notice must contain a legal description of the land.
      (2)   Except as provided by §
150.05, the town’s lien to secure the payment of a civil penalty or the costs
of repairs, removal or demolition is inferior to any previously recorded bona
fide mortgage lien attached to the real property to which the town’s lien
attaches if the mortgage lien was filed for record in the office of the county.
      (3)   Any civil penalty or other assessment imposed under this section
accrues interest at the rate of 10% a year from the date of the assessment
until paid in full.
      (4)   The town’s right to the assessment lien may not be transferred to
third parties.
      (5)   In any judicial proceeding regarding enforcement of the town’s
rights under this section, the prevailing party is entitled to recover
reasonable attorney’s fees from the nonprevailing party.
      (6)   A lien acquired under this section by the town for repair expenses
may not be foreclosed if the property on which the repairs were made is
occupied as a residence by a person 65 years of age or older.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   All other rights of the town set out in Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Chapter 214
not specifically set out herein are also incorporated by reference as if set
forth herein word for word.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.25 ADOPTION.
   Certain documents are on file in the office of the Town Secretary of the
town, being marked and designated as “International Plumbing Code”, as
published by the International Code Council and is hereby designated as the
official guideline of all plumbing practices which affect any water for human
consumption in the town, for regulating the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installation, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of plumbing systems in said town,
and providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such
International Plumbing Code, 1997 edition, published by the International Code
Council on file in the office of said town are hereby referred to, adopted as
the official guideline and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 98-10, passed 9-21-1998)
§ 150.26 PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   The following unacceptable plumbing practices are expressly prohibited.
   (A)   No direct connection between the public drinking water supply and a
potential source of contamination is permitted. Potential sources of
contamination shall be isolated from the public water system by an air-gap or
an appropriate backflow prevention device.
   (B)   No cross-connection between the public drinking water supply and a
private water system is permitted. These potential threats to the public
drinking water supply shall be eliminated at the service connection by the
installation of an air-gap or a reduced pressure-zone backflow prevention
device.
   (C)   No connection which allows water to be returned to the public drinking
water supply is permitted.
   (D)   No pipe or pipe fitting which contains more than 8.0% lead may be used
for the installation or repair of plumbing at any connection which provides
water for human use.
   (E)   No solder or flux which contains more than 0.2% lead can be used for
the installation or repair of plumbing at any connection which provides water
for human use.
(Ord. 98-10, passed 9-21-1998) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.27 PERMIT.
   (A)   All new construction and any major maintenance repair at any
connection which provides water for human consumption shall require a permit
from the town at a cost of $100.
   (B)   This permit shall require the applicant to contract with a licensed
plumber who will meet or exceed the requirements as set out in the 1997 edition
of the International Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Further, it will be the responsibility of the applicant to retain the
services of a licensed plumbing inspector who will be required to file a form
of completion and compliance with the town.
(Ord. 98-10, passed 9-21-1998)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who does not comply with an order issued under §
150.08(A)(1) shall be subject to a fine of not less than $1, nor more than
$2,000 for each violation of said order and shall be subject to confinement in
jail of 30 days for each violation of said order. Each day of violation of the
order shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2004-005, passed 7-23-2004)
   (C)   A penalty not to exceed $500 per day, per violation, may be assessed
for noncompliance with §§
150.25 through 150.27.
(Ord. 98-10, passed 9-21-1998)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Findings, purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
151.04   Basis for establishing areas of special flood hazard
   
151.05   Establishment of development permit
   
151.06   Compliance
   
151.07   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
151.08   Interpretation
   
151.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
151.20   Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.21   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
151.22   Permit procedures
   
151.23   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
151.35   General standards
   
151.36   Specific standards
   
151.37   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
151.38   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
151.39   Floodways
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building Regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Mobile homes, trailers and the like, see
Chapter 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 FINDINGS, PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has in Tex.
Water Code, §§ 16.311 et seq. delegated the responsibility of local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses.
Therefore, the Town Council does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic
inundation which results in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary
public expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely
affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
   (C)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize public and private
losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
      (1)   Protect human life and health;
      (2)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
      (3)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
      (4)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
      (5)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located
in floodplains;
      (6)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
      (7)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
   (D)   Methods of reducing flood losses. In order to accomplish its purposes,
this chapter uses the following methods:
      (1)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
      (2)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
      (3)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
      (4)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
      (5)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure.
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH or VO zone on a
community’s flood insurance rate map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM). After detailed
rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, VI-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear wails, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the “start of construction” commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the area within a community subject to a “special flood hazard” and the extent
of the depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes
hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized
flood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
engineering standards.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See regulatory floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s flood insurance rate map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date
of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the “start of
construction” commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to such structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is: built on a single chassis; 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. (for other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (16 U.S.C. §§ 3501 et
seq.)), includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit
was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The actual START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures which have incurred “substantial
damage”, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either: any project for improvement of a structure to correct
existing violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code
specifications which have been identified by the local code enforcement
official and which are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions;
or any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided, that the alteration will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure.”
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements, see National Flood Insurance
Program regulations, 44 C.F.R. § 60.6.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in 44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)
(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until
such time as that documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.03 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.04 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
“The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for The Town of Holiday Lakes” dated September
22, 1999, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and/or flood boundary-
floodway maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted
by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.05 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.06 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions; however, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restrictions conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.08 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be: considered as minimum requirements; liberally construed in favor of the
governing body; and deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted
under state statutes.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (B)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the
community or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.20 DESIGNATION OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Floodplain Administrator is to administer and implement the provisions
of this chapter and 44 C.F.R. §§ 60 et seq. (Emergency Management and
Assistance - National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to
floodplain management.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.21 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the State Water Commission, prior to any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
notification to the Federal Emergency Management Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
151.04, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
151.35 through 151.39;
   (I)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community; and
   (J)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R.§ 65.12, of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain development in
Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the water surface
elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that the community
first completes all of the provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.22 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
   (B)   Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
151.36(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
151.21(A).
   (C)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.23 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
151.22(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (§
151.01).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon: showing a good and sufficient
cause; a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant, and a determination that the granting of
a variance will not result in increased flood heights, additional threats to
public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on
or victimization of the public or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that: the criteria outlined in divisions
(A) through (I) are met; and the structure or other development is protected by
methods that minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no
additional threats to public safety.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 151.35 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 151.36 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §
151.04, §
151.21(H) or 151.37(C), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated to or above the base flood elevation. A registered professional
engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification to the
Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as proposed in
§
151.22(A) is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
water-tight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
flood waters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured home
park or subdivision; in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor, of the
manufactured home is elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
division (D) above be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the
base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles. Require that recreational vehicles placed on
sites within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
      (1)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
      (2)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
      (3)   Meet the permit requirements of §
151.22(A), and the elevation and anchoring requirements for “manufactured
homes” in division (D) above. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use
if it is on its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick
disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached
additions.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.37 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §
151.01.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
151.05, 151.22 and the provisions of §§
151.35 through 151.39.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
151.04 or 151.21(H).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.38 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
151.04, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident.
   (B)   Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore,
the following provisions apply.
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above the
base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified).
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to or above
the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the
depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two feet if no
depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base specified flood depth level in an AO Zone, or
below the base flood elevation level in an AH Zone, the structure is watertight
with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads or effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section as proposed in §
151.22, are satisfied.
      (4)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.39 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than designated height.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (A) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
151.35 through 151.39.
      (3)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. 65.12, of the National Flood
Insurance Program Regulations, a community may permit encroachments within the
adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an increase in base flood
elevations, provided that the community first completes all of the provisions
required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter by
failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this chapter or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $500 or imprisoned for not more than three months, or both, for each
violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the
case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent town from taking such other lawful
action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 2005-08, passed 11-17-2005)
CHAPTER 152: MOBILE HOMES, TRAILERS, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
152.01   Definitions
   
152.02   Application for permit
   
152.03   Permit provisions
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HARD SURFACE ROADS, ALLEYS OR DRIVEWAYS. An asphalt or concrete road, alley
or driveway.
   HOUSE or BUILDING. Any permanent, single-family dwelling unit or building
previously constructed and located at another site and, in this chapter,
approved and permitted for relocation within the corporate limits of the town,
as approved by Town Council, as well as all new construction.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle or similar portable structure having been
originally constructed with wheels designed for use as a conveyance upon
highways, and having no original foundation other than its own chassis, wheels,
jacks or skirting, and so designed or constructed as to permit long-term
occupancy for dwelling and sleeping purposes. It may consist of one or more
units that can be telescoped when towed and expanded later for additional
capacity or of two or more units, separately towable, but designed to be joined
into one integral dwelling unit. As used in this chapter, the mobile home shall
be interpreted to include HUD Code, Zone 2 manufactured homes not to exceed
five years age at the time of the permit application, or a special exception
permit must be obtained upon Town Council approval.
   MODULAR HOME. Any permanent, single-family dwelling unit which has been
fabricated or factory constructed as a single unit, or in sections or modules,
without wheels or a chassis of its own, and assembled at the factory or
construction site, and moved on a flatbed or other trailer to a permanent
location as a unit or in sections or modules as a permanent single-family
dwelling unit placed on a permanent foundation at such site and connected with
all utility services.
   NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL BARRIER. Any river, pond, creek, canal, railroad,
fence, tree or hedge that prohibits public view of and ease of access.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A building, structure or use of land lawfully occupied at
the time of the effective date of this chapter which does not conform to the
plans, specifications and licensing requirements.
   PERMITTEE. Any person to whom a permit is issued under the provisions of
this chapter.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
   SEPTIC SYSTEM. Either an aerobic system or a standard system with tanks and
lateral lines.
   TOWN. The Town of Holiday Lakes, Brazoria County, Texas.
   TRAVEL TRAILER/RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any vehicular, portable structure
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses,
and includes folding, hardtop campers transported behind a motor vehicle;
camper, converted bus, tent trailer, tent or similar device used for temporary,
short-term occupancy, not to exceed six months unless a special exception
permit is granted by Council, all of the above must maintain a current
inspection and registration.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-17-2009)
§ 152.02 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate within the corporate limits of
the town any mobile home, travel trailer, modular home, house or building, for
dwelling purposes or other specified uses, unless application is made and
approved by Town Council to locate same on private or commercial property as
hereinafter provided.
   (A)   Application for special use permit. Any person desiring to place any
of the aforementioned structures, for occupancy or business purposes, on a
private lot, whether or not said lot or lots are vacant or have improvements
thereon, shall file a written application for a special use permit with the
Town Secretary. The application shall contain the name and address of the
applicant; the size of the structure; the year (not to exceed five years old)
and model and original cost of the unit, and a legal description of the
property upon which said unit is to be located. In addition, the application
shall give assurance of ability to comply with requirements for connecting the
unit to all utilities; and show, by plot, the location of the unit on the
proposed site so as to conform to existing building lines of adjacent
conventional or residential properties. Placement must be at least 25 feet from
the front property line and least five feet from side property lines. The
completed application shall then be submitted to the Town Council for
consideration or final approval.
   (B)   Other factors to be considered for approval of special use permit. The
Town Council, in its final decision to approve an application for special use
permit to locate any unit on a private lot, shall consider such other factors
as follows:
      (1)   The location of the proposed mobile unit;
      (2)   The existing type of development and land use in the immediate
area;
      (3)   The quality and type of proposed mobile home unit;
      (4)   The utilization of land and air space;
      (5)   The control of traffic and off-street parking;
      (6)   The most appropriate use of land involved in the particular
application so as not to create hardship for the applicant or owner of any
property surrounding the area and to be in the best public interest;
      (7)   The current concepts and standards for mobile homes and other
aforementioned units;
      (8)   The fee for each permit shall not be construed as a bar to
prosecution for or enforcement of any applicable law, or as any type of waiver
by the town;
      (9)   A permit shall not be issued for any property with no septic
system, unless the permit application is accompanied by an approved septic
system permit issued by the State Commission on Environmental Quality;
      (10)   A permit may be issued for property with a pre-existing septic
system if there is no other house, mobile home or manufactured home occupying
the same premises; and
      (11)   Access to water service from the town will be denied if any unit
was moved without an approved permit.
   (C)   Conditions for issuance of special use permit. As a condition for the
issuance of a special use permit, Town Council may:
      (1)   Grant the permit for a limited time so long as the period of time
is reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious;
      (2)   Grant the use of property under the permit be limited to the
applicant, immediate family or guests and that any successor in interest must
reapply for another special use permit;
      (3)   May direct the converting of mobile home to a permanent structure.
removal of wheel or axles and tongue from a mobile home shall be construed to
automatically convert the mobile home into a permanent structure, subject to
the requirements of the Building Code, housing laws and all other laws
applicable to dwellings according to the foundation plan prescribed herein and
on file in the office of the Town Secretary; and/or
      (4)   Any combination of divisions (C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(3) above.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-17-2009) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03 PERMIT PROVISIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to abrogate or annul any permit issued or
agreement made by the Town Council prior to the date of this chapter, with
respect to the location of a mobile home, travel trailer, house or modular
home.
   (A)   House moving; permit required.
      (1)   No person, firm, association or entity, incorporated or otherwise,
shall hereinafter transport upon any of the streets or alleys within the
corporate limits of the town, any house, barn or other building, whether the
point of origin of said structures should already be within the corporate
limits of the town or out of the town limits, without first having obtained a
written permit from the town so authorizing. Said permit shall state the route
to be taken over and across said streets and alleys. in the event said building
is to be located within the corporate limits of the town, an application shall
be filed for a permit to locate within the corporate limits.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to any structure of modular
construction that is 12 feet wide or less, 24 feet or less long, and that meets
any one of the following requirements: the building will be placed on a lot or
parcel of land on which there is an existing residential structure and the
building will be used solely for storage by the occupant of the residence; or
the building will be placed on property that does not have an existing
residential structure and will be used solely as an office or for other
commercial, nonresidential use.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the above, this provision shall not apply to any
house, trailer or mobile home transported under an oversize permit issued by
the State Department of Transportation so long as the route traveled by the
vehicle is entirely over highways maintained by the state.
   (B)   Permit to locate inside of corporate limits. 
      (1)   The application shall contain the name and address of the applicant
and a legal description of the property upon which the home is to be located,
in addition, the application shall show by plot the location of the building or
home on the proposed site so as to conform to all building and setback
requirements; provided, that all requirements of this chapter have been met,
the town shall have the authority to issue the permit.
      (2)   Prior to being used or occupied, any building moved into the town
shall be brought into compliance with the Southern Standard Building Code
currently effective. The applicant shall submit a plan of renovations or
repairs contemplated to Town Council for approval. All repairs and renovations
shall be completed within six months of the date the house is located inside
the corporate limits, unless the time is extended by Town Council approval.
   (C)   Conditions under which house may be moved.
      (1)   All structures must be moved on pneumatic tires;
      (2)   All structures must be moved during daylight hours;
      (3)   An escort vehicle shall be provided by permittee for both the front
and rear of the structure while in transit; and
      (4)   The applicant shall travel only at the times and the routes
specified in the permit.
   (D)   Size requirement of houses. All residential structures, which includes
new construction, that are moved into the corporate limits of town must contain
at least 1,000 square feet of living area.
   (E)   Bonds required. No permit to move any house or other building for
location inside the corporate limits of the town shall be issued until the
applicant shall have deposited a bond in the sum of $2,000, which bond shall be
signed by the applicant and two or more good and sufficient sureties or by the
applicant and a surety company authorized to make surety bonds in this state.
Such bond shall be conditioned so as to indemnify any and all persons and the
town for any damage or loss to property or person or reasonable and necessary
expenses caused to or incurred by any person as a result of the moving of any
house or other building. The damage and loss covered by the bond shall be
limited to incidents of physical damage or destruction of property and shall
not include diminution of value caused solely by the fact that the structure
was placed on the adjacent property. In the event the applicant is in the house
moving business and contemplates moving more than one house or other buildings
within a one-year period, he or she may make a blanket bond in the sum of
$2,000, conditioned as stated above, but covering all building and houses for
which he or she may obtain such permits during the year, and such buildings
that may be moved by the applicant during such year. All such bonds shall be
approved by the Town Council and shall be filed in the office of the Town
Secretary.
   (F)   Site requirements. All defined structures referenced in section one
shall comply with all requirements of all other laws and ordinances. All
defined structures referenced in §
152.01 shall be elevated to or above the base flood elevation and be securely
anchored to comply with the requirements of the designated FEMA flood zones and
all other FEMA requirements. The average height of the bottom of a manufactured
home or mobile home frame, above the ground elevation, shall not exceed three
feet.
   (G)   Permitting fees. These fees shall be governed by the “mobile home 6c
housing regulations”. These regulations may change from time to time as deemed
appropriate and necessary by vote of Town Council.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-17-2009) Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person, firm, association, corporation or entity, incorporated
or otherwise, convicted of a violation of a provision of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 per day per violation.
   (B)   Absent a showing of good cause, failure to complete renovations within
the stipulated time in §
152.03 shall subject the owner of the structure to a fine not to exceed $500
for each day the owner is in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-01, passed 2-17-2009)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Establishment of districts
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Provisions for official zoning map
   
153.04   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
153.05   Application of district regulations
   
153.06   Nonconforming uses
   
153.07   Savings clause
Schedule of Districts
   
153.20   In general
   
153.21   General Residence District
   
153.22   Commercial District
   
153.23   Specific uses permitted
   
153.24   Special exceptions
Administration
   
153.35   Specific use permits
   
153.36   Amendments, supplements, changes and modifications
   
153.37   Special exception permits
   
153.38   Board of Adjustments
   
153.39   Fees
 
   
153.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations, see
Chapter 150
   Flood damage prevention, see
Chapter 151
   Mobile homes, trailers, recreation vehicles, see
Chapter 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The entire area of the town is hereby divided into zoning districts in
accordance with a comprehensive plan for the purpose of conserving the value of
building and encouraging the most appropriate use of land throughout the
community. These districts have been established with reasonable consideration
of the character of the district and its suitability to the particular uses
authorized for such district.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a building which are rented, leased,
let or hired out to be occupied as a residence by a single family.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by walls on four sides.
   DWELLING. A building arranged, designed or built to be occupied as a
residence by a single family.
   MULTI-FAMILY. Any group of people not comprising a single family as
hereinafter defined.
   OWNER. Any person (other than a lien holder not in possession) having title
to or any interest in any property, real, personal or mixed. Proof that the
title to any property is shown in any person by the public records of the town,
the county or the state, shall be prima facie proof that such person is the
OWNER of such property in any action tried in the Municipal Court of the town
or any other court of competent jurisdiction but such prima facie proof may be
rebutted by any party against whom such proof is offered in any such action.
   PERMITTED USE. A use allowed in one or more of the various districts without
the necessity of obtaining a specific use permit.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, corporation or other artificial
entity recognized as existing as an entity separate and apart from the owners
thereof by the laws of the state, as well as the government and any political
subdivision or agency of the United States, the State of Texas, any other state
comprising the United States of America or any foreign state or nation.
   PIERS AND DOCKS. Any structure extending into public waters.
   SINGLE FAMILY. Any number of people related within at least the second
degree of consanguinity or affinity but not more than six persons not so
related.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent location
on the ground.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the structural member of a building,
such as walls, columns, beams or girders.
   VARIANCE. A legal modification of any district provisions not relating to
use.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.03 PROVISIONS FOR OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The official zoning map, together with all explanatory matter thereon,
is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter and
shall be the final authority as to the current zoning regulations.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be in the custody of the Town Secretary
and shall be identified by the official signature of the Mayor under the
following words:
“This is to certify that this is the official zoning map referred to in §
153.02 (§ 1.2 of the Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Holiday
Lakes, Texas) read, passed and approved as Ordinance No. 86-68, on the 18th day
of March, A.D., 1986.”
   (C)   When changes are made in the district boundaries or other matter
portrayed on the official zoning map, such changes shall be entered on the
official zoning map promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Town
Council. The amendatory ordinance shall provide that such changes become
effective when they have been entered upon the official zoning map. Such entry
shall be signed officially by the Mayor and attested by the Town Secretary. Any
unauthorized change of the official zoning map of whatever kind by any person
shall be considered a violation of this chapter punishable as provided in §
153.99.
   (D)   In the event the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost
or difficult to interpret due to the number of changes thereon, the Town
Council may, by a resolution so finding, adopt a new official zoning map. The
new official zoning map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in
the prior official zoning map but no such corrections shall have the effect of
amending the original official zoning map or any other prior official zoning
map. Each new official zoning map shall be identified by the official signature
of the Mayor, attested by the Town Secretary, and bearing the Seal of the town,
and date under the following words:
“This is to certify that this official zoning map supercedes and replaces the
official zoning map adopted on the 18th day of April, A.D., 1986, as part of
Ordinance No. 86-68 of the Town of Holiday Lakes, Texas.”
   (E)   Unless lost or totally destroyed, the original and each new official
zoning map shall, when superseded, be preserved by the Town Secretary, together
with all available records pertaining to its adoption or amendment.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.04 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, alley, rights-of-way, easements, platted lot lines, town limits, and
the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals or other waterways shall be
construed as exactly following such centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately parallel to or extensions of
streets, alleys, rights-of-way, easements, platted lot lines, town limits, and
the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals or other waterways shall be
construed as exactly parallel thereto or exactly an extension thereof.
   (C)   Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall
be determined by the scale of such map.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.05 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations set by this chapter within each district shall be
minimum regulations and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of
structure or land except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered unless in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the district in which it is
located.
   (C)   All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the town shall be
considered to be zone “R-1 General Residential”, unless otherwise classified by
amendment of this chapter in accordance with the provisions of §
153.36.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.06 NONCONFORMING USES.
   Where a lawful use of land exists on the effective date of the adoption of
this chapter as originally adopted or hereafter amended, such use may
nevertheless continue subject to the following conditions.
   (A)   No such use (including, but not limited to, any building or other
structure thereon) shall be enlarged or altered in any way which increases its
nonconformity.
   (B)   Should any building or other structure thereon be destroyed by any
means to an extent of 50% or more, it shall not thereafter be reconstructed or
used except in conformity with this chapter as originally adopted or hereafter
amended.
   (C)   Where a nonconforming use of land or any building or other structure
thereon is discontinued or abandoned for 60 consecutive days, such land,
building or other structure shall not thereafter be used except in conformity
with this chapter as originally adopted or hereafter amended.
   (D)   Any use for which an exception is permitted in any district by any
provision of this chapter as originally adopted or hereafter amended shall not
be deemed a nonconforming use but shall, without further action, be deemed a
conforming use in such district.
   (E)   Specific uses in any district pursuant to a specific use permit
granted under the provisions of this chapter as originally adopted or hereafter
amended shall not be deemed a nonconforming use but shall, without further
action, be deemed a conforming use in such district for the premises and period
of time provided in such permit.
   (F)   Any business currently operating at the time of the adoption of this
chapter which places it in the “R-1 General Residential” district may continue
its present operation subject to the conditions set forth in §
153.06; however, should said building, structure or land be sold, traded or
transferred to another owner, said business shall cease operation under the
nonconforming clause.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.07 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   This chapter is cumulative of and in addition to all other ordinances of the
town, on the same subject and all such ordinances are hereby expressly saved
from repeal. In the event the provisions of any such other ordinance conflict
with or overlap the provisions of this chapter, whichever imposes the more
stringent regulation shall control.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
SCHEDULE OF DISTRICTS
§ 153.20 IN GENERAL.
   The several districts hereby established and into which the town is divided
are designated as follows:
   (A)   “R-1” - General Residence District; and
   (B)   “C-1” - Commercial District.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.21 GENERAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Short-hand designation. On the official zoning map and elsewhere in
this chapter this district may be designated “R-1”.
   (B)   Purpose. This district includes all land which is used for residential
purposes. This district is designated to protect these areas from uses not
compatible with the residential character of the structures located in this
district.
   (C) Permitted uses. Single-family dwellings.
   (D)   Area requirements. All uses must be located on at least one of the
lots depicted on the map or plat recorded in Volume 1605, Page 131 of the Deed
Records of the county, and no lot may be subdivided to have smaller dimensions
than those reflected for it on said map or plat.
   (E)   Specific uses permitted. See §
153.23.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.22 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Short-hand designation. On the official zoning map and elsewhere in
this chapter this district may be designated “C-1”.
   (B)   Purpose. This district contains land which is used primarily for
commercial businesses.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Any commercial use except those for which a specific
use permit is required by §
153.23.
   (D)   Area requirements. Same as General Residence District.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.23 SPECIFIC USES PERMITTED.
   A specific use permit issued pursuant to the provisions of §
153.35 shall be required before the following specific uses can be permitted in
the zoning district or districts indicated.
Specific Use District
Specific Use                                                           District
Apartment houses                                                       R-1
Automobile wrecking or junk yard                                       C-1
Cemetery or mausoleum                                                  C-1
Commercial billboard or advertising sign not on premises of business   C-1
being advertised
Excavation of earth, clay, gravel, sand or other minerals produced by  C-1
surface mining
Hotel or motel                                                         C-1
Massage parlors, adult book and movies stores, and any other sexually  C-1
explicit or oriented businesses
Mining for oil, gas or other minerals produced by drilling beneath the C-1
surface of the land
Multi-family dwellings                                                 R-1
Petroleum refining and/or storage                                      C-1
Public or private schools                                              R-1, C-1
Sanitary landfill or other site for disposal of solid or other wastes,
including chemical wastes (does not any town-owned sewer treatment     C-1
plant)
 
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.24 SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS.
   A special exception permit issued pursuant to the provisions of §
153.37 shall be required before the following special exceptions can be
permitted in the zoning district or districts indicated:
Special Exceptions District
Special Exceptions                                                     District
Filling or service station where petroleum products are sold at retail C-1
Home occupations                                                       R-1
Motor vehicle storage except detached garages or carports for single-  C-1
family dwellings
Office building                                                        C-1
Outdoor advertising sign not on premises of business being advertised  R-1
Piers and docks                                                        R-1, C-1
Radio or television broadcasting transmitter or tower; micro-wave      R-1, C-1
relay tower
Storage of raw materials or finished goods other than for sale at      C-1
retail
 
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.35 SPECIFIC USE PERMITS.
   (A)   A specific use permit is an amendment to the district regulations that
permits the establishment of a specific use within a zoning district in which
such specific use may be established under the provisions of §
153.23.
   (B)   An application for a specific use permit shall be made in writing to
the Town Secretary, but such permits can only be granted by amendment to this
chapter in the manner set forth in §
153.36. The application shall state the name and address of the owner, the
legal description of the land for which the permit is sought, its street
address, if any, and a statement of the specific use sought. It shall be signed
and dated by the owner or the owner’s agent or attorney.
   (C)   A specific use permit, revocable, conditional, permanent or valid for
a term only may be issued for any of the uses or purposes for which such
permits are required or permitted under the provisions of §
153.23; provided, however, the granting of a specific use permit does not
exempt the applicant from the necessity of complying with all other
requirements of this or any other ordinance of the town.
   (D)   Every specific use permit granted by the Town Council shall be
applicable only to the land specifically described therein and the person
granted the permit (which shall be nontransferable). In granting such permit,
the Town Council may impose any reasonable conditions which must be complied
with by the permittee in order for such permit to remain valid but such
conditions shall not be construed as conditions precedent to the granting of
the permit.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.36 AMENDMENTS, SUPPLEMENTS, CHANGES AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations, restrictions and boundaries set forth in this chapter
may from time to time be amended, supplemented, changed, modified or repealed.
In case, however, of a written protest against such change, signed by the
owners of 20% or more either of the area of the lots or land included in such
proposed change, or of the lots or land immediately adjoining the same and
extending 200 feet therefrom, such amendment shall not become effective except
by the favorable vote of three-fourths of all members of the Town Council.
   (B)   Prior to adopting any change in such regulations, restrictions or
boundaries, the Town Council shall hold a Public Hearing in relation thereto at
which all parties in interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be
heard. At least 15 days’ notice of the time and place of such hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper of the town or, if none has been
designated, in a paper having general circulation within the corporate limits
of the town.
   (C)   Additional notice of such public hearing, setting forth such proposed
change, must be sent to the owners of all real property lying within the area
proposed for change and within 200 feet of the property on which any change in
classification is proposed, such notice to be given not less than ten days
before the date set for such hearing, to all owners who have rendered their
said property for town taxes as the ownership appears on the last approved town
tax roll. For each year in which a town tax is not levied, such notice shall be
given to all owners who have rendered their said property for county and state
taxes as the ownership appears on the last approved county tax roll. Such
notice may be served by depositing the same, properly addressed and postage
paid, in the U.S. post office serving the town. Where property lying within the
area proposed for change or within 200 feet of the property proposed to be
changed is located in territory which was annexed to the town after the final
date for making the renditions which are included on the last approved town tax
roll or county tax roll, as the case may be, notice to the owner or owners
thereof shall be given by publication in the manner provided in division (B)
above.
   (D)   The Town Council may not adopt a change in this chapter until after
the thirtieth day after the day that notice required by division (C) above is
given.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.37 SPECIAL EXCEPTION PERMITS.
   (A)   An application for a special exception permit shall be made in writing
to the Town Secretary. The application shall state the name and address of the
owner, the legal description of the land for which the permit is sought, its
street address, if any, and a statement of the special exception sought. It
shall be signed and dated by the owner or the owner’s agent or attorney.
   (B)   A special exception permit, revocable, conditional, permanent or valid
for a term only may be issued for any of the uses or purposes for which such
permits are required or permitted under the provisions of §
153.24; provided, however, the granting of a special exception permit does not
exempt the applicant from the necessity of complying with all other
requirements of this or any other ordinance of the town.
   (C)   Every special exception permit granted by the Board of Adjustment
shall be applicable only to the land specifically described therein and the
person granted the permit (which shall be nontransferable). In granting such
permit, the Board of Adjustment may impose any reasonable conditions which must
be complied with by the permittee in order for such permit to remain valid but
such conditions shall not be construed as conditions precedent to the granting
of the permit.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.38 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   The five members of the Board of Adjustments shall be appointed by the
Town Council. Such members shall serve without compensation.
   (B)   Two alternate members of the Board of Adjustments shall be appointed
by the Town Council. One or both alternates may serve in the absence of two or
less regular members of the Board and are entitled to any and all regulations,
restrictions and voting rights of the absent Board member or members.
   (C)   The Board of Adjustments term shall run concurrent with the Mayoral
position.
   (D)   All cases shall always be heard by a minimum of four members, either
regular or alternate.
   (E)   Action taken by the Board of Adjustments shall require notification in
the official newspaper of the town 15 days prior to the meeting in which this
action is taken. The Board of Adjustments shall abide by the Texas Open
Meetings Act, being Tex. Gov’t Code, Chapter 551.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.39 FEES.
   (A)   Anyone applying for any amendment to this chapter shall be required to
pay a cost deposit of $200.
   (B)   For special exceptions, a cost deposit of $25 is required.
   (C)   The cost deposit which applies will be due at the time of application.
   (D)   Any unspent portion of the applicable cost deposit will be refunded.
Any additional monies due will be paid at time cost is incurred.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provisions contained in this chapter as
originally adopted or hereafter amended or who fails to comply with any such
provisions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction therefore shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.
   (B)   The owner and each occupant of any land or any building or other
structure thereon, or any part thereof, any architect, builder-contractor,
agent, employee or other person who commits, participates or assists in, allows
or maintains any violation of any provisions of this chapter as originally
adopted or hereafter amended or who fails to comply with any such provisions
shall likewise be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as provided above.
   (C)   Each day any violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of
this chapter as originally adopted or hereafter amended continues or occurs
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Nothing contained herein shall prevent the town from taking any other
lawful action, including, but not limited to, the institution of any action at
law or in equity, to prevent any violation of the provisions of this chapter as
originally adopted or hereafter amended, or to obtain compliance with such
provisions.
   (E)   In any action tried in the Municipal Court of the town, or any other
court of competent jurisdiction, the complaint or pleading need not negate any
exception contained in this chapter as originally adopted or hereafter amended,
but the same may be raised by any party to such action by way of defense.
(Ord. 86-68, passed 3-18-1986)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
82-11A     6-8-1982    Electric franchise
83-27      4-12-1983   Franchise of Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
85-38      11-8-1983   Grants franchise to Action Cable, Inc.
85-53      12-18-1984  Franchise of Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
86-74      5-20-1986   Grants franchise to Starsatt Corporation for cable
                       television system
86-82      11-18-1986  Franchise of Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
Res. 88-42 6-21-1988   Grants franchise to Starsatt Corporation for community
                       antenna television system
88-103     11-15-1988  Electric franchise
92-06      8-17-1992   Franchise of Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
97-03      7-21-1997   Franchise of Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
97-11      11-17-1997  Amends Ord. 88-103; street rental equal to 4 of gross
                       receipts
Res. 99-91 11-15-1999  Cable television franchise; Star Cable Associates to
                       Universal Cable Holdings, Inc.
2018-09    9-18-2018   Grants nonexclusive, 30-year electric franchise to
                       Texas-New Mexico Power Company
                      
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Statutes and Codes
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS STATUTES AND CODES
References to Texas Administrative Code
 
Tex. Administrative Code Reference  Code Section
Title 30, Chapter 111, §§ 201 - 2295.01
Title 43, Chapter 25.1              Ch. 72 Sch. II
                                    
 
References to Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code
 
Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code Reference Code Section
1.04                                   111.01
105.03(c)                              111.01
105.04                                 111.01
105.05(c)                              111.01
                                       
 
References to Texas Business and Commerce Code
 
Tex. Business and Commerce Code Reference Code Section
17.46 et seq.                             110.08
                                          
 
References to Texas Code of Criminal Procedure
 
Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure Reference Code Section
2.12                                      130.03
2.131 through 2.136                       31.040
Chapter 45                                33.12
45.012                                    33.03
103.0031                                  33.15
                                          
 
References to Texas Education Code
 
Tex. Education Code Reference Code Section
96.641                        31.049
                              
 
References to Texas Government Code
 
Tex. Gov’t Code ReferencCode Section
29.004                    33.04
29.006                    33.04
418.01                    34.01
                          32.16,
Chapter 551               32.18,
                          153.38
                          31.061 -
                          31.063,
Chapter 2256              31.065,
                          31.066,
                          31.069 -
                          31.071
                          
 
References to Texas Health and Safety Code
 
Tex. Health and Safety Code Reference Code Section
481.134                               131.03,
                                      131.04
                                      
 
References to Texas Local Government Code
Tex. Local Gov’t Code ReferencCode Section
Tex. Local Gov’t Code ReferencCode Section
Chapter 21                      32.01
22.077                          33.04
Chapter 53                      10.01
54.001                          10.99
Chapter 105                     31.069,
                                31.073
150.014                         31.073
214.0012                        150.07
Chapter 214                     150.01,
                                150.09
                                
 
References to Texas Penal Code
Tex. Penal Code Reference Code Section
Tex. Penal Code Reference Code Section
2.04                      71.02
21.08                     131.03
21.11                     131.03
21.011                    131.03
22.021                    131.03
43.25                     131.03
43.26                     131.03
49.02                     130.04
                          
 
References to Texas Revised Civil Statutes
 
Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Reference Code Section
971                            30.01
971a                           30.01
1200                           33.02
6252-17                        32.18
                               
 
References to Texas Tax Code
 
Tex. Tax Code Reference Code Section
11.251                  36.32
31.03                   36.31
31.05                   36.31
33.07                   36.33
33.08                   36.33
                        
 
References to Texas Transportation Code
Tex. Transp. Code Reference Code Section
Tex. Transp. Code Reference Code Section
Chapter 501                 91.02,
                            91.04
545.352                     33.08
683.031                     91.04
683.031 through 683.034     91.09
683.032                     91.04
683.051 through 683.057     91.10
Chapter 683, Subchapter E   91.13
                            
 
References to Texas Utilities Code
 
Tex. Utilities Code Reference Code Section
Chapter 11                    36.01
                              
 
References to Texas Water Code
 
Tex. Water Code Reference Code Section
16311 et seq.             151.01
                          
 
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
86-31    4-15-1986   11.02
88-42    6-21-1988   TSO Table I
89-53    12-19-1989  36.32
98-79    3-16-1998   32.02
98-82    9-21-1998   31.001,
                     31.002
99-90    11-15-1999  36.33
99-91    11-15-1999  TSO Table I
2006-016 6-19-2006   34.03
2009-01  3-7-2009    31.060 -
                     31.075
–      10-20-2015  30.04
                    
 
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
82-2     1-27-1982   11.01,
                     32.02
82-4     1-27-1982   32.01
82-5     1-27-1982   30.01
                     70.01 -
                     70.04,
82-11    3-30-1982   70.99,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. I -
                     Sch. III
82-12    3-30-1982   36.01,
                     36.02
82-11A   6-8-1982    TSO Table I
82-20    12-30-1982  Ch. 72 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. II
83-24    3-31-1983   30.02
83-27    4-12-1983   TSO Table I
83-30    5-31-1983   36.30
83-40    11-8-1983   30.05
85-38    11-8-1983   TSO Table I
                     93.01 -
84-45    5-8-1984    93.05,
                     93.99
85-53    12-18-1984  TSO Table I
85-58    10-15-1985  36.30
85-61    11-19-1985  36.31
                     50.01 -
86-65    1-21-1986   50.05,
                     50.99
                     153.01 -
                     153.07,
                     153.20 -
86-68    3-18-1986   153.24,
                     153.35 -
                     153.39,
                     153.99
86-74    5-20-1986   TSO Table I
                     52.01 -
86-75    7-22-1986   52.04,
                     52.99
86-82    11-18-1986  TSO Table I
87-87    6-16-1987   36.34
                     Ch. 72 Sch. II -
87-92    11-17-1987  Sch. IV,
                     Ch. 73 Sch. I
88-103   11-15-1988  TSO Table I
88-102   12-20-1988  34.01,
                     34.99
89-110   6-20-1989   Ch. 72 Sch. I
91-128   3-19-1991   30.04
91-133   8-20-1991   92.01,
                     92.99
92-06    8-17-1992   TSO Table I
                     Ch. 72 Sch. I,
94-01    2-21-1994   93.01 -
                     93.05,
                     93.99
94-02    3-29-1994   31.015 -
                     31.025
                     94.01 -
95-02    2-20-1995   94.04,
                     94.99
                     51.01 -
96-02    4-1-1996    51.13,
                     51.99
                     110.01 -
96-05    7-22-1996   110.14,
                     110.99
97-01    3-10-1997   51.07,
                     51.10
97-03    7-21-1997   TSO Table I
97-10    10-20-1997  130.03,
                     130.99
97-11    11-17-1997  TSO Table I
                     150.25 -
98-10    9-21-1998   150.27,
                     150.99
99-03    3-19-1999   36.15
99-05    6-21-1999   70.99,
                     Ch. 72 Sch. I
2007-07  8-28-2000   51.08
                     53.01 -
2000-09  9-18-2000   53.11,
                     53.99
2002-07  2-18-2002   31.040 -
                     31.049
                     91.01 -
2003-006 10-20-2003  91.18,
                     91.99
                     150.01 -
2004-005 7-23-2004   150.10,
                     150.99
                     71.01 -
2005-07  3-21-2005   71.05,
                     71.99
                     151.01 -
                     151.09,
                     151.20 -
2005-08  11-17-2005  151.23,
                     151.35 -
                     151.39,
                     151.99
                     131.01 -
2005-09  12-28-2005  131.05,
                     131.99
                     90.01 -
2005-10  12-28-2005  90.16,
                     90.99
                     130.01 -
2006-06  3-20-2006   130.06,
                     130.99
                     33.01 -
2006-12  5-18-2006   33.14,
                     33.99
2007-002 1-22-2007   10.05
2007-004 2-19-2007   32.15 -
                     32.22
2007-008 6-18-2007   32.17
2007-011 7-17-2007   Ch. 72 Sch. I
                     152.01 -
2009-01  2-17-2009   152.03,
                     152.99
2009-06  10-20-2009  34.02
2009-07  10-20-2009  91.02,
                     91.13
                     93.20 -
2010-03  6-15-2010   93.22,
                     93.99
-        12-7-2010   31.090 -
                     31.098
2013-02  5-21-2013   35.01 -
                     35.11
–      8-26-2014   50.20 -
                     50.32
–      5-9-2015    50.27
2016-03  3-15-2016   31.110
2017-03  4-11-2017   111.01
                     95.01 -
2017-04  4-18-2017   95.06,
                     95.99
                     70.01 -
                     70.04,
                     70.10,
                     70.15 -
2017-05  8-15-2017   70.17,
                     70.25,
                     70.30,
                     70.35,
                     70.99
2017-06  5-16-2017   30.06
                     96.01 -
2017-07  12-5-2017   96.04,
                     96.99
2017-10  12-5-2017   Adopting Ordinance
2017-11  10-17-2017  30.06
2018-03  5-15-2018   Adopting Ordinance
2018-04  5-15-2018   33.15
2018-08  9-18-2018   30.06
2018-09  9-18-2018   TSO Table I
2018-11  12-18-2018  Adopting Ordinance
2019-03  6-18-2019   Adopting Ordinance
2019-06  10-15-2019  30.06
2020-06  9-15-2020   30.06
2021-02  1-12-2021   30.06
2022-02  2-15-2022   30.06
2022-03  3-19-2022   31.015 -
                     31.025
                    
 
