LAKESIDE, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-11 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 418, passed 5-13-2021
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet:  http://www.amlegal.com
TOWN OFFICIALS
MAYOR
Patrick Jacob
MAYOR PRO TEM
Amy Robinson
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS
Don Pitts
Katherine Livingston
Wesley Hearn
Amy Robinson
Rona Stratton Gouyton
TOWN ATTORNEY
Kenneth E. East
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
Norman Craven
TOWN SECRETARY
Norman Craven
CHIEF OF POLICE
Lee Pitts
 
   NOTE: The governing body of the Town of Lakeside is formally referred to as
“City Council.” The terms “City Council” and “Town Council” may be used
interchangeably.
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Altering or tampering with code
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Town of Lakeside, Texas,
shall be designated as the “Code of Lakeside” and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code,
Ch. 53
§ 10.02  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CODE,THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY.  Tarrant County, Texas.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer,
office, employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the
context clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes individual persons, a group of persons
acting together and any entity recognized by law.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWN, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY.  The Town of Lakeside,
Texas.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally.  The construction of all ordinances of this municipality
shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant
to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if
written “and/or,” if the sense requires it.
      (2)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to
be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)    The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.  If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded, unless the act to be taken or to be ceased is
required immediately because the public health or safety is threatened.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including, but not limited to, the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit, or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing, or otherwise relating to
rates to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing, or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating, or otherwise
relating to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All the ordinances mentioned in division (A) above are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length herein.
§ 10.15  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.  Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect
from their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.  In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985;
Ord. 30, passed - -; Ord. passed 12-15-1995; Ord. passed - -)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. 
Example:  (Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001)  (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord.
20, passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.  Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, §§ 552.001 et
seq.
§ 10.19  ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the town to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the town an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any such ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal
ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning, and public health and sanitation;
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $2,000, if a motor vehicle is used in illegal
dumping or an offense under the law or town ordinance violated by the illegal
dumping; or
      (3)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases; provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.  In the event that any such violation is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, the nuisance may be
summarily abated by the Town Manager or the Chief of Police or their assigns.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN POLICIES
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE
      
33.   PERSONNEL
CHAPTER 30:  TOWN POLICIES
Section
Municipal Records
   
30.001   Definition of “municipal records”
   
30.002   Additional definitions
   
30.003   Municipal records declared public property
   
30.004   Policy
   
30.005   Designation of Records Management Officer
   
30.006   Records management plan to be developed; approval of plan; authority
of plan
   
30.007   Duties of Records Management Officer
   
30.008   Duties and responsibilities of department heads
   
30.009   Records control schedules to be developed; approval; filing with state
   
30.010   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of records
under schedule
   
30.011   Destruction of unscheduled records
Ambulance Services
   
30.025   Statutory authority
   
30.026   General purposes and intent
   
30.027   Definitions
   
30.028   Emergency Physicians Advisory Board (EPAB)
   
30.029   Metropolitan Area EMS Authority
   
30.030   First Responder Advisory Board
   
30.031   Violations
   
30.032   Traffic laws; exemption
   
30.033   Adoption
Public Smoking
   
30.045   Definitions
   
30.046   Prohibitions
   
30.047   Restaurants
   
30.048   Owner/occupier designation of nonsmoking facility
   
30.049   Posting of notice and owner’s, operator’s, and employees’
responsibilities
   
30.050   Unlawful acts
   
30.051   Publication
   
30.052   Effective date
Emergency Management
   
30.065   Organization
   
30.066   Emergency Management Director; powers and duties
   
30.067   Emergency management plan
   
30.068   Interjurisdictional program
   
30.069   Override
   
30.070   Liability
   
30.071   Commitment of funds
   
30.072   Violations
   
30.073   Conflicts
General Policies
   
30.085   Official municipal newspaper
   
30.086   Claims against the town; notice required
   
30.087   Town fiscal year
   
30.088   Election of town officials by plurality
   
30.089   Adoption of state laws regarding cities and towns
Identity Theft Prevention Program
   
30.100   Program adoption
   
30.101   Purpose and definitions
   
30.102   Identification of red flags
   
30.103   Detecting red flags
   
30.104   Preventing and mitigating identity theft
   
30.105   Program updates
   
30.106   Program administration
 
   
30.999   Penalty
MUNICIPAL RECORDS
§ 30.001  DEFINITION OF “MUNICIPAL RECORDS.”
   All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs, sound or video
recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media, or other information
recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and regardless
of whether public access to them is open or restricted under the laws of the
state, created or received by the Town of Lakeside or any of its officers or
employees pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business are hereby
declared to be the records of the Town of Lakeside and shall be created,
maintained, and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter or procedures authorized by it and in no other manner.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.002  ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD.  The officer who by ordinance or administrative policy is
in charge of an office of the Town of Lakeside that creates or receives
records.
   ESSENTIAL RECORD.  Any record of the Town of Lakeside necessary to the
resumption or continuation of its operations in an emergency or disaster, to
the re-creation of its legal and financial status, or to the protection and
fulfillment of obligations to the people of the state.
   PERMANENT RECORD.  Any record of the Town of Lakeside for which the
retention period on a records control schedule is given as permanent.
   RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE.  A document prepared by or under the authority of
the Records Management Officer listing the records maintained by the Town of
Lakeside, their retention periods, and other records disposition information
that the records management program may require.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT.  The application of management techniques to the
creation, use, maintenance, retention, preservation, and disposal of records
for the purposes of reducing the costs and improving the efficiency of
recordkeeping.  The term includes the development of records control schedules,
the management of filing and information retrieval systems, the protection of
essential and permanent records, the economical and space-effective storage of
inactive records, control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports,
and correspondence, and the management of micrographics and electronic and
other records storage systems.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.  The person designated in §
30.005.
   RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN.  The plan developed under §
30.006.
   RETENTION PERIOD.  The minimum time that must pass after the creation,
recording, or receipt of a record, or the fulfillment of certain actions
associated with a record, before it is eligible for destruction.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.003  MUNICIPAL RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All municipal records, as defined in §
30.001, are hereby declared to be the property of the Town of Lakeside.  No
municipal official or employee has, by virtue of his or her position, any
personal or property right to the records even though he or she may have
developed or compiled them.  The unauthorized destruction, removal from files,
or use of the records is prohibited.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.004  POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Town of Lakeside to provide
for efficient, economical, and effective controls over the creation,
distribution, organization, maintenance, use, and disposition of all municipal
records through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for their
management from creation to ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirements of the Texas Local Government Records Act, being Tex. Local Gov’t
Code, §§ 201.001 et seq., and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.005  DESIGNATION OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The Town Secretary, and the successive holders of the office, shall serve as
Records Management Officer for the Town of Lakeside.  As provided by state law,
each successive holder of the office shall file his or her name with the
Director and Librarian of the Texas State Library within 30 days of the initial
designation or of taking up the office, as applicable.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.006  RECORDS MANAGEMENT PLAN TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL OF PLAN; AUTHORITY
OF PLAN.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer shall develop a records management plan
for the Town of Lakeside for submission to the City Council.  The plan must
contain policies and procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the
efficiency of recordkeeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the
municipality, and to properly preserve those records of the municipality that
are of historical value.  The plan must be designed to enable the Records
Management Officer to carry out his or her duties prescribed by state law and
this subchapter effectively.
   (B)   Once approved by the City Council, the records management plan shall
be binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions,
bureaus, boards, committees, or similar entities of the Town of Lakeside and
records shall be created, maintained, stored, microfilmed, or disposed of in
accordance with the plan.
   (C)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities, or
recordkeeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department
head or the records in the department head’s care from the application of this
subchapter and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used
by the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management program of the Town of Lakeside.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.007  DUTIES OF RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, the Records
Management Officer shall:
   (A)   Administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
   (B)   Plan, formulate, and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards, and procedures;
   (C)   In cooperation with department heads, identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each municipal office and department to ensure
maximum availability of the records in order to re-establish operations quickly
and with minimum disruption and expense;
   (D)   Develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the city;
   (E)   Establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for
recordkeeping supplies;
   (F)   Study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform
filing system and a forms design and control system for the Town of Lakeside;
   (G)   Monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued by
the Texas State Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management program and the municipality’s records control schedules are in
compliance with state regulations;
   (H)   Disseminate to the City Council and department heads information
concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government
records;
   (I)   Ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming, destruction,
or other disposition of the records of the Town of Lakeside are carried out in
accordance with the policies and procedures of the records management program
and the requirements of state law;
   (J)   Maintain records on the volume of records destroyed under approved
records control schedules or through records destruction authorization
requests, the volume of records microfilmed or stored electronically, and the
estimated cost and space savings as the result of the disposal or disposition;
   (K)   Report annually to the City Council on the implementation of the
records management plan in each department of the Town of Lakeside, including
summaries of the statistical and fiscal data compiled under division (J) above;
and
   (L)   Bring to the attention of the City Council noncompliance by department
heads or other municipal personnel with the policies and procedures of the
records management program or the Local Government Records Act, being Tex.
Local Gov’t Code, §§ 201.001 et seq.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.008  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   In addition to other duties assigned in this subchapter, department heads
shall:
   (A)   Cooperate with the Records Management Officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the Town of Lakeside for the efficient
and economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of
this subchapter;
   (B)   Adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs, and duties for which the department head and his or her
staff are responsible; and
   (C)   Maintain the records in his or her care and carry out their
preservation, microfilming, destruction, or other disposition only in
accordance with the policies and procedures of the records management program
of the Town of Lakeside and the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.009  RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES TO BE DEVELOPED; APPROVAL; FILING WITH
STATE.
   (A)   The Records Management Officer, in cooperation with department heads,
shall prepare records control schedules on a department by department basis
listing all records series created or received by the department and the
retention period for each series.  Records control schedules shall also contain
the other information regarding the disposition of municipal records as the
records management plan may require.
   (B)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed
by the Records Management Officer on a regular basis to ensure that it is in
compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state and that it
continues to reflect the recordkeeping procedures and needs of the department
and the records management program of the Town of Lakeside.
   (C)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule or amended schedule
for a department must be approved by the department head and the Town of
Lakeside.
   (D)   Before its adoption, a records control schedule must be submitted to
and accepted for filing by the Director and Librarian as provided by state
law.  If a schedule is not accepted for filing, the schedule shall be amended
to make it acceptable for filing.  The Records Management Officer shall submit
the records control schedules to the Director and Librarian.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.010  IMPLEMENTATION OF RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULES; DESTRUCTION OF RECORDS
UNDER SCHEDULE.
   (A)   A records control schedule for a department that has been approved and
adopted under §
30.009 shall be implemented by department heads according to the policies and
procedures of the records management plan.
   (B)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control
schedule shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the
record, the subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending law suit, or
the department head requests in writing to the Records Management Officer that
the record be retained for an additional period.
   (C)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records control
schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the Records
Management Officer from the Town of Lakeside.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
§ 30.011  DESTRUCTION OF UNSCHEDULED RECORDS.
   A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control
schedule may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same
manner as a record destroyed under an approved schedule and the Records
Management Officer has submitted to and received back from the Director and
Librarian an approved destruction authorization request.
(Ord. 279, passed 5-10-2007)
AMBULANCE SERVICES
§ 30.025  STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted by the Town of Lakeside ("this Jurisdiction"),
pursuant to Tex. Health and Safety Code § 773.051, which provides that local
governments may establish standards for ambulances, and pursuant to Tex.
Government Code Chapter 791, which authorizes combinations of local
governmental units to contract for the provision of governmental services,
including the creation of administrative agencies to promote public health and
welfare.
(Ord. 258, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 30.026  GENERAL PURPOSES AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter:
   (A)   To establish a regulated prehospital emergency medical services and
medical transportation system which can provide quality clinical care with
performance measures and standards, with the goal of facilitating the best
possible outcomes for each patient;
   (B)   To establish a mobile integrated healthcare program with effective
medical direction and quality assurance and review;
   (C)   To form an administrative agency to administer and operate the
prehospital emergency medical services and medical transportation system in a
service area comprised of member jurisdictions and to administer and operate
the mobile integrated healthcare program;
   (D)   To designate the administrative agency as the sole-provider of
emergency and non-emergency ambulance service within this jurisdiction to
maintain consistent, high-quality service while controlling costs through
efficiencies and economies of scale;
   (E)   To provide for effective medical direction by establishing a multi-
jurisdictional Emergency Physicians Advisory Board to advise the administrative
agency's Board and, through the agency's office of the medical director, to
oversee and regulate all clinical aspects of prehospital emergency medical
services, the administrative agency's mobile integrated healthcare program, and
medical transportation which affect patient care in the service area; and
   (F)   To provide for effective coordination and communication between first
responder agencies in the service area, the Emergency Physicians Advisory
Board, and the Board of the Administrative Agency by establishing a multi-
jurisdictional First Responder Advisory Board.
(Ord. 258, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 30.027  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT.  Out-of-hospital care that uses invasive medical acts
(as defined in Tex. Health and Safety Code § 773.003(1).
   AEROMEDICAL TRANSPORTATION UNIT. Any rotary or fixed wing aircraft providing
basic or advanced life support services and patient transportation that
originates within the service area.
   AMBULANCE MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. A written agreement between the authority
and one or more entities whereby the signing parties agree to provide backup
ambulance service to one another under the terms and conditions specified in
the agreement.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. The transportation of Patients by emergency or non-
emergency ambulance.
   ASSOCIATE MEDICAL DIRECTOR. A licensed physician who assists the Medical
Director in carrying out EPAB's duties under this subchapter through the OMD.
   AUTHORITY (METROPOLITAN AREA EMS AUTHORITY). The public administrative
agency, formerly known as the Area Metropolitan Ambulance Authority,
established to administer and operate the Medical Transportation and
prehospital emergency medical services system and the MIH program established
by this subchapter.
   BASIC LIFE SUPPORT. Out-of-hospital care that uses noninvasive medical acts
(as defined in § 773.003(2), Tex. Health and Safety Code).
   BOARD. The Board of Directors of the Authority.
   EMERGENCY CARE ATTENDANT. A person certified as an "emergency care
attendant" under § 773.046 of the Tex. Health and Safety Code,
   EMERGENCY MEDICAL TECHNICIAN (EMT). A person certified as an "emergency
medical technician" under § 773.047 or an "advanced emergency medical
technician" under § 773.048 of the Tex. Health and Safety Code, and any other
class of EMT recognized by state law or regulation.
   EMS COMMUNICATIONS CENTER. The single facility designated by the authority
as the central communications center from which all services offered by the
authority shall be dispatched and controlled.
   FIRST RESPONDER. Any agency that provides first response to requests for
emergency medical services and, in cooperation with the ambulance service,
provides immediate on-scene care to ill or injured persons but does not
transport those persons to healthcare facilities.
   MEDICAL DIRECTOR. The licensed physician appointed by EPAB who is
responsible for carrying out EPAB's duties and for directing the Office of the
Medical Director.
    MEDICAL TRANSPORTATION. The transportation of patients by ambulance,
specialized mobile intensive care unit, specialty care transport, or
aeromedical transportation unit, including both emergency and non-emergency
transports, where such transportation originates within the service area.
   MIH ASSOCIATE MEDICAL DIRECTOR. An Associate Medical Director who is
specifically tasked with assisting the Medical Director in overseeing the
clinical aspects of the authority's MIH program.
   MOBILE INTEGRATED HEALTHCARE (MIH). Services provided by the authority that
are designed to enhance, coordinate, effectively manage, and integrate out of
hospital care, in order to improve outcomes, enhance the client's experience of
care, and improve the efficiency and effectiveness of healthcare services
provided to the enrolled clients.
   OFFICE OF MEDICAL DIRECTOR. The clinical office of the authority through
which EPAB carries out its rights and duties under this subchapter. The Office
of the Medical Director is comprised of the Medical Director, the MIH Associate
Medical Director and any other Associate Medical Directors, and the employees
of the authority who are assigned to the Office of the Medical Director to
assist the medical directors in carrying out EPAB's rights and duties under
this subchpater.
   PARAMEDIC. A person qualified as a certified or licensed "paramedic" as
defined by Tex. Health and Safety Code §§ 773.049 and 773.0495.
   PATIENT. An individual who is ill, sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise
incapacitated, and in need of or at risk of needing medical care at the scene
of a medical emergency or during transport to or from a healthcare facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
governmental entity, or other group, or a combination of the same acting as a
unit.
   RESTATED INTERLOCAL COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT. The interlocal contract, as it
may be amended from time to time, adopted by this jurisdiction concurrently
with the passage of this subchapter pursuant to Chapter 791 of the Tex.
Government Code (the Interlocal Cooperation Act).
   SERVICE AREA. That geographical area which is contained within the
boundaries of all the jurisdictions which become members of the authority by
adopting this subchapter and executing the restated interlocal cooperative
agreement.
   SPECIAL EVENT. Any public event located within the service area for which
standby ambulance service is arranged in advance, and for which an ambulance is
hired by the sponsor of the event or other interested party.
   SPECIALTY CARE TRANSPORT. The transportation of a critically injured or ill
patient at a level of service beyond the scope of the EMT-Paramedic when the
patient's condition requires ongoing care that must be furnished by one or more
health professionals in an appropriate specialty area; for example, emergency
or critical care nursing, emergency medicine, respiratory care, cardiovascular
care, or a paramedic with additional training.
   SPECIALIZED MOBILE INTENSIVE CARE UNIT. A vehicle which is specially
constructed, equipped, staffed, and employed in the inter-facility transport of
patients whose requirements for en route medical support are likely to exceed
the clinical capabilities of an Advanced Life Support ambulance.
(Ord. 258, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 30.028  EMERGENCY PHYSICIANS ADVISORY BOARD (EPAB).
   (A)   There is hereby created an Emergency Physicians Advisory Board
("EPAB") which, acting through the Office of the Medical Director, shall, on
behalf of this jurisdiction, oversee and regulate all clinical aspects of
medical transportation, the authority's MIH program, and prehospital emergency
medical services in this Jurisdiction, including such services provided by the
authority and first responders, and shall exercise independent professional
judgment in all matters related to patient care.
   (B)   EPAB's membership and other matters relating to EPAB shall be set
forth in the restated interlocal cooperative agreement and in the bylaws
adopted by the FRAB.
(Ord. 258, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 30.029  METROPOLITAN AREA EMS AUTHORITY.
   (A)   By adopting this subchapter and executing and approving the restated
interlocal cooperative agreement, this jurisdiction has joined the authority,
which shall now be known as the Metropolitan Area EMS Authority.
   (B)   The authority shall have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   The authority is hereby designated as the sole provider of
ambulance service and special event ambulance standby service within this
jurisdiction, whether directly or indirectly through contractors, pursuant to
the terms, conditions and provisions of the restated interlocal cooperative
agreement, except for those services exempted by §
30.031(B);
      (2)   The authority shall comply with all terms of the restated
interlocal cooperative agreement and have all the powers and duties enumerated
therein;
      (3)   The authority is required to provide this jurisdiction with basic
and advanced life support ambulance service in accordance with system
performance standards and all applicable law, rules and regulations, as well as
all patient care standards that EPAB may from time to time promulgate;
      (4)   The authority is authorized to operate an MIH program on a non-
exclusive basis in this jurisdiction;
      (5)   The authority shall enter into a first responder agreement with
this jurisdiction and may issue, suspend, revoke, and renew permits for the
delivery of first responder services in this jurisdiction by other agencies,
subject to the credentialing process by EPAB and the Office of the Medical
Director and subject to rights of appeal to the Board;
      (6)   The authority shall adopt standards approved by EPAB governing the
operation of specialized mobile intensive care units and for specialty care
transport within the service area, including standards limiting the types of
patients which may be transported thereby, and, subject to the credentialing
process by EPAB and the Office of the Medical Director, may issue, suspend,
revoke, and renew permits for the operation of such units as required by this
subchapter.
      (7)   The authority shall adopt standards approved by EPAB governing the
operation of aeromedical transportation units within the service area,
including standards defining the circumstances under which such units may be
deployed to emergency scenes and, subject to the credentialing process by EPAB
and the Office of the Medical Director, may issue, suspend, revoke, and renew
permits for the operation of such units as required by this subchapter.
      (8)   The authority shall adopt standards approved by EPAB governing the
provision of special event ambulance standby service within the service area
and, subject to the credentialing process by EPAB and the Office of the Medical
Director, may issue, suspend, revoke, and renew permits for the provision of
such ambulance standby service.
   (C)   The Authority Board's membership and other matters relating to the
Authority shall be set forth in the restated interlocal cooperative agreement
and in the Bylaws adopted by the Authority's Board.
(Ord. 258, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 30.030  FIRST RESPONDER ADVISORY BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby created a First Responder Advisory Board ("FRAB")
which shall advise and inform the authority and EPAB on matters related to
first response and prehospital emergency medical services in the Service Area.
   (B)   The FRAB's membership and other matters relating to the board shall be
set forth in the restated interlocal cooperative agreement and in the bylaws
adopted by the FRAB.
(Ord. 258, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)  Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.031  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To knowingly give false information to induce the dispatch of an
ambulance or aeromedical transportation unit.
      (2)   To perform duties as an ECA, EMT, Paramedic or emergency ambulance
dispatcher without current credentials issued by the Office of the Medical
Director, unless participating in a training program approved by Office of the
Medical Director;
      (3)   To permit a person to work as an ECA, EMT, Paramedic or emergency
ambulance dispatcher without current credentials issued by the Office of the
Medical Director, unless participating in a training program approved by Office
of the Medical Director;
      (4)   To use, or cause to be used, any ambulance service other than the
authority, except as permitted in division (B) below;
      (5)   For any person or entity other than the authority to provide
ambulance service within this jurisdiction, unless pursuant to a written
agreement with the authority;
      (6)   For any person to provide medical transportation originating in the
service area without a permit issued by the authority;
      (7)   For any agency to provide first responder services without a first
responder permit issued by the authority, unless pursuant to a first responder
agreement with the authority or a written automatic aid or mutual aid agreement
with this jurisdiction;
      (8)   To use an ambulance for the transportation of persons other than in
connection with the transportation of a patient.
   (B)   It shall be a defense to any alleged violation of this section that a
vehicle is being used or service is provided solely in any of the following
manners:
      (1)   As a privately owned vehicle not ordinarily used in the business of
transporting persons who are sick, injured, wounded, incapacitated or helpless;
      (2)   Rendering service as an ambulance at the request of the EMS
Communications Center upon the declaration of a disaster by this Jurisdiction,
the State of Texas, or the United States; or a declaration of a major
catastrophe or extreme system overload by the Chief Executive Officer of the
Authority;
      (3)   Any ambulance owned or operated by the federal or state government;
      (4)   Ambulance mutual aid calls when rendered pursuant to an ambulance
mutual aid agreement approved by the authority;
      (5)   Special event ambulance standby coverage, so long as such service
is provided without charge by an emergency medical services volunteer provider,
as defined in Tex. Health and Safety Code § 773.003(13), or the Authority has
first declined to provide coverage and the entity providing coverage has been
issued a permit by the authority;
      (6)   Wheelchair transport services for persons other than patients, when
the service is not provided by ambulance; and
      (7)   Medical transportation of a patient where the transport originates
outside the service area.
(Ord. 258, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 30.032  TRAFFIC LAWS; EXEMPTION.
   When the driver of an emergency medical response vehicle has reasonable
grounds to believe that an emergency exists, as determined by the EMS
Communication Center, the vehicle shall be treated as an "authorized emergency
vehicle" within the meaning of Chapter 546 of the Tex. Transp. Code and shall
be exempt from traffic laws as provided therein.
(Ord. 258, passed 8-14-2003; Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)
§ 30.033  ADOPTION.
   This subchapter shall be in force and effect from and after the date of its
adoption and, it is so ordained.
(Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)
PUBLIC SMOKING
§ 30.045  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR PURIFICATION SYSTEM.  An electrically powered, hospital grade, hepa
media filter that will clean all of the air in the designated smoking area
every 15 minutes as follows:  not less than 95% of three-tenths micron
particulates efficiency including dust, smoke, pollen, mold spores, bacteria,
tobacco smoke, viruses, and allergens and not less than 95% removal of gases,
vapors, volatile organic compounds (V.O.C.), and odors.
   AIR VENTILATION SYSTEM.  An HVAC system designed by a licensed professional
engineer to meet the requirements of the town mechanical code.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY.  Any office or institution providing individual care
or treatment of human medical, physiological, or psychological illness, which
definition shall include, but not be limited to, hospitals, doctor’s offices,
nursing and convalescent homes, and senior citizens residential facilities.
   NET FLOOR AREA.  The portion of the interior of a facility that is normally
utilized by the public.  It shall not include restroom facilities, waiting
areas, or public telephone areas.
   PERSONS.  Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, or organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC FACILITY.  Any public meeting room, office, conference area, or
public service area owned, operated, or used by the Town of Lakeside.
   RESTAURANT.  Any structure or premises where the principal activity involves
the serving of prepared food with or without alcohol for customers on-premises
or off-premises consumption.  Cafeterias and lunch counters are included in
this definition while drive-in eating establishments are not.
   SMOKING.  The lighting, holding, carrying of, inhaling, and exhaling of the
smoke of a tobacco, herb, or other leaf product, which definition includes, but
is not limited to, the carrying or holding of a lighted pipe, cigar, or
cigarette of any kind or any other lighted smoking equipment or device.
(Ord. 250, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 30.046  PROHIBITIONS.
   Smoking is unlawful in the following public places during the hours in which
they are open to the public:
   (A)   Restaurants, except for designated smoking areas as hereafter
established;
   (B)   Public facilities;
   (C)   Establishments which an owner or occupier has clearly designated as a
nonsmoking premise or facility; and
   (D)   Health care facilities.
(Ord. 250, passed 6-12-2003)  Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.047  RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   An owner or operator of a restaurant may declare the entire facility
as a nonsmoking facility and smoking therein is and shall be prohibited.
   (B)   An owner or operator of a restaurant may declare that a portion of the
facility is a smoking area and, upon compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter, smoking within the designated area shall be permitted.
   (C)   A designated smoking area may not exceed 30% of the net floor area of
a restaurant.
   (D)   There shall be constructed and maintained a physical barrier
separating the smoking and nonsmoking areas.  The barrier must extend from
floor to ceiling or the smoking area must be located on completely separate
floors of a facility with the smoking area to be on the upper level.  The
barrier must extend through suspended ceilings and interstitial structural and
mechanical areas.  There shall be tight fitting doors leading from one area to
another.
   (E)   In the designated smoking areas as herein defined of any restaurant
which has provided a designated smoking area, the smoking area shall be
equipped with a functional air purification system or functional separate
ventilation system, as defined.
      (1)   The systems shall have a negative pressure on the area designated
for smoking to prevent air from a smoking area to be drawn across or into the
nonsmoking area.
      (2)   All air ventilation systems in the designated smoking area shall
provide the total air exchange every 15 minutes and shall exhaust that air to
the exterior of the building.
      (3)   A sign must be posted on the premises at each entrance and in two
conspicuous places to advise the public that smoking is permitted in the
designated smoking area only.
(Ord. 250, passed 6-12-2003)  Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.048  OWNER/OCCUPIER DESIGNATION OF NONSMOKING FACILITY.
   (A)   An owner or occupier of any facility to which the general public is
normally invited (such as, but not limited to, retail stores, movie theaters,
churches, grocery stores) may declare that the facility is a nonsmoking
facility and smoking therein is and shall be prohibited.
   (B)   An owner or occupier desiring to declare the facility as nonsmoking
shall do so by posting a clearly conspicuous nonsmoking sign at each entrance
to the facility.
(Ord. 250, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 30.049  POSTING OF NOTICE AND OWNER’S, OPERATOR’S, AND EMPLOYEES’
RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The owner or operator of a health care facility shall post a
conspicuous sign at each entrance to the facility advising persons that smoking
is prohibited and shall advise all employees working at the facility that no
smoking is allowed on the premises and of their duties as specified above.
   (B)   There shall be posted at each entrance to a public facility a
conspicuous sign advising persons that smoking is prohibited.
   (C)   An owner, operator, or employee of an establishment or a portion of a
restaurant, wherein smoking is prohibited shall be required to orally inform
persons violating this subchapter (violators) of the provisions thereof.  The
duty to inform the violator shall arise when the owner, operator or employee of
an establishment becomes aware of the violation.  If the violator continues to
violate this subchapter after requested to cease smoking in a prohibited area,
it shall then become the responsibility of the owner, operator, or employee to
immediately notify the town Police Department and to file a complaint against
the violator within ten days of the incident in the Municipal Court.  Any such
owner, operator, or employee who knowingly violates the provisions of this
subchapter when the duty arises as described in this section shall be subject
to the penalties provided for herein.
(Ord. 250, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 30.050  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   A person commits an offense if he or she:
   (A)   Knowingly, intentionally, or by criminal negligence smokes in an area
designated as nonsmoking by an owner or occupier or where prohibited as
provided herein;
   (B)   Knowingly, intentionally, or by criminal negligence fails to post a
nonsmoking area sign as required by this subchapter;
   (C)   Knowingly, intentionally, or by criminal negligence fails to inform
any person to discontinue smoking when the duty to inform arises as set forth
in §
30.049; and/or
   (D)   Knowingly, intentionally, or by criminal negligence destroys or
defaces a sign posted as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 250, passed 6-12-2003)  Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.051  PUBLICATION.
   The Town Secretary is hereby directed and authorized to cause publication of
this subchapter as allowed by law.
(Ord. 250, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 30.052  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 250, passed 6-12-2003)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 30.065  ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There exists the Office of Emergency Management Director of the Town
of Lakeside, which shall be held by the Mayor in accordance with state law.
   (B)   An Emergency Management Coordinator may be appointed by and serve at
the pleasure of the Director.
   (C)   The Director shall be responsible for a program of comprehensive
emergency management within the town and for carrying out the duties and
responsibilities set forth in this subchapter.  He or she may delegate
authority for execution of these duties to the Coordinator, but ultimate
responsibility for the execution shall remain with the Director.
   (D)   The operational emergency management organization of the Town of
Lakeside shall consist of the officers and employees of the town so designated
by the Director in the emergency management plan, as well as organized
volunteer groups.  The functions and duties of this organization shall be
distributed among the officers and employees in accordance with the terms of
the emergency management plan.
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987)
§ 30.066  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DIRECTOR; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Emergency Management Director shall
include the following:
   (A)   Conduct an on-going survey of actual or potential hazards which
threaten life and property within the town and an ongoing program of
identifying and requiring or recommending the implementation of measures which
would tend to prevent the occurrence or reduce the impact of the hazards if a
disaster did occur;
   (B)   Supervision of the development and approval of an emergency management
plan for the Town of  Lakeside, and shall recommend for adoption by the City
Council all mutual aid arrangements deemed necessary for the implementation of
the plan;
   (C)   Authority to declare a local state of disaster.  The declaration may
not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of seven days except by or
with the consent of the City Council.  Any order or proclamation declaring,
continuing, or terminating a local state of disaster shall be given prompt and
general publication and shall be filed promptly with the Town Secretary;
   (D)   Issuance of necessary proclamations, regulations, or directives which
are necessary for carrying out the purposes of this subchapter.  The
proclamations, regulations, or directives shall be disseminated promptly by
means calculated to bring its contents to the attention of the general public
and, unless circumstances attendant on the disaster prevent or impede, promptly
filed with the Town Secretary;
   (E)   Direction and control of the operations of the Lakeside emergency
management organization as well as the training of emergency management
personnel;
   (F)   Determination of all questions of authority and responsibility that
may arise within the emergency Management organization of the town;
   (G)   Maintenance of liaison with other municipal, county, district, state,
regional, or federal emergency management organizations;
   (H)   Marshaling of all necessary personnel, equipment, or supplies from any
department of the town to aid in the carrying out of the provisions of the
emergency management plan;
   (I)   Supervision of the drafting and execution of mutual aid agreements, in
cooperation with the representatives of the state and of other local political
subdivisions of the state, and the drafting and execution, if deemed desirable,
of an agreement with the county in which the town is located and with other
municipalities within the county, for the county-wide coordination of emergency
management efforts;
   (J)   Supervision of, and final authorization for, the procurement of all
necessary supplies and equipment, including acceptance of private contributions
which may be offered for the purpose of improving emergency management within
the town;
   (K)   Authorizing of agreements, after approval by the Town Attorney, for
use of private property for public shelter and other purposes;
   (L)   Survey of the availability of existing personnel, equipment, supplies,
and services which could be used during a disaster, as provided for herein; and
   (M)   Other requirements as specified in the Texas Disaster Act of 1975
(Tex. Gov’t Code, §§ 418.001 et seq.).
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987)
§ 30.067  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   A comprehensive emergency management plan shall be developed and maintained
in a current state.  The plan shall set forth the form of the organization,
establish and designate divisions and functions, assign responsibilities,
tasks, duties, and powers, and designate officers and employees to carry out
the provisions of this subchapter.  As provided by state law, the plan shall
follow the standards and criteria established by the State Division of
Emergency Management of the State of Texas.  Insofar as possible, the form of
organization, titles, and terminology shall conform to the recommendations of
the State Division of Emergency Management.  When approved, it shall be the
duty of all departments and agencies to perform the functions assigned by the
plan and to maintain their portion of the plan in a current state of readiness
at all times.  The emergency management plan shall be considered supplementary
to this subchapter and have the effect of law during the time of a disaster.
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987)
§ 30.068  INTERJURISDICTIONAL PROGRAM.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to join with the County Judge of the County
of Tarrant and the mayors of the other cities in the county in the formation of
an Emergency Management Council for the County of Tarrant and shall have the
authority to cooperate in the preparation of a joint emergency management plan
and in the appointment of a joint Emergency Management Coordinator, as well as
all powers necessary to participate in a county-wide program of emergency
management insofar as the program may affect the Town of Lakeside.
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987)
§ 30.069  OVERRIDE.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this subchapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede and
override all existing ordinances, orders, rules, and regulations insofar as the
latter may be inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987)
§ 30.070  LIABILITY.
   This subchapter is an exercise by the town of its governmental functions for
the protection of the public peace, health, and safety and neither the Town of
Lakeside, the agents and representatives of the town, nor any individual,
receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or trustee, nor any of
the agents thereof, in good faith carrying out, complying with or attempting to
comply with, any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant to the
provisions of this subchapter shall be liable for any damage sustained to
persons as the result of the activity.  Any person owning or controlling real
estate or other premises who voluntarily and without compensation grants to the
Town of Lakeside a license of privilege, or otherwise permits the town to
inspect, designate, and use the whole or any part or parts of the real estate
or premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an actual, impending,
or practice enemy attack or natural or human-made disaster shall, together with
his or her successors in interest, if any, not be civilly liable for the death
of, or injury to, any person on or about the real estate or premises under the
license, privilege, or other permission or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of the person.
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987)
§ 30.071  COMMITMENT OF FUNDS.
   No person shall have the right to expend any public funds of the town in
carrying out any emergency management activity authorized by this subchapter
without prior approval by the City Council, nor shall any person have any right
to bind the town by contract, agreement, or otherwise without prior and
specific approval of the City Council unless during a declared disaster. 
During a declared disaster, the Mayor may expend and/or commit public funds of
the town when deemed prudent and necessary for the protection of health, life,
or property.
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987)
§ 30.072  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, hinder, or
delay any member of the emergency management organization in the enforcement of
any rule or regulation issued pursuant to this subchapter, or to do any act
forbidden by any rule or regulation issued pursuant to the authority contained
in this subchapter.
   (B)   It shall likewise be unlawful for any person to wear, carry, or
display any emblem, insignia, or any other means of identification as a member
of the emergency management organization of the Town of Lakeside, unless
authority to do so has been granted to the person by the proper officials.
   (C)   Any unauthorized person who shall operate a siren or other device so
as to simulate a warning signal, or the termination of a warning, shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this subchapter and shall be subject to the
penalties imposed by this subchapter.
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987)  Penalty, see §
30.999
§ 30.073  CONFLICTS.
   This subchapter shall not be construed so as to conflict with any state or
federal statute or with any military or naval order, rule, or regulation.
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987)
GENERAL POLICIES
§ 30.085  OFFICIAL MUNICIPAL NEWSPAPER.
   The Azle News is hereby designated as the official municipal newspaper and
publication.
(Ord. 139, passed 1-7-1992)
§ 30.086  CLAIMS AGAINST THE TOWN; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Town of Lakeside shall never be liable for any claim for property
damage or for personal injury, whether the personal injury results in death or
not, unless the person damaged or injured, or someone in his or her behalf, or
in the event the injury results in death, the person or persons who may have a
cause of action under the law by reason of the death or injury, shall, within
60 days or within six months for good cause shown from the date the damage or
injury was received, give notice in writing to the Mayor and City Council of
the following facts:
      (1)   The date and time when the injury occurred and the place where the
injured person or property was at the time when the injury was received;
      (2)   The nature of the damage or injury sustained;
      (3)   The apparent extent of the damage or injury sustained;
      (4)   A specific and detailed statement of how and under what
circumstances the damage or injury occurred;
      (5)   The amount for which each claimant will settle;
      (6)   The actual place of residence of each claimant by street, number,
city, and state on the date the claim is presented;
      (7)   In the case of personal injury or death, the names and addresses of
all persons who, according to the knowledge or information of the claimant
witnessed the happening of the injury or any part thereof and the names of the
doctors, if any, to whose care the injured person is committed; and
      (8)   In the case of property damage, the location of the damaged
property at the time the claim was submitted along with the names and addresses
of all persons who witnessed the happening of the damage or any part thereof.
   (B)   No suit of any nature whatsoever shall be instituted or maintained
against the Town of Lakeside unless the plaintiff therein shall aver and prove
that previous to the filing of the original petition the plaintiff applied to
the City Council for redress, satisfaction, compensation, or relief, as the
case may be, and that the same was by vote of the City Council refused.
   (C)   All notices required by this section shall be effectuated by serving
them upon the Town Secretary at the Lakeside Town Hall, 9830 Confederate Park
Road, Rt. 8 Box 539, Fort Worth, Texas 76135, and all the notices shall be
effective only when actually received in the office of the person named above.
   (D)   Neither Mayor, Council member, or any other officer or employee of the
town shall have the authority to waive any of the provisions of this section.
   (E)   The written notice required under this section shall be sworn to by
the person claiming the damage or injuries or by someone authorized by him or
her to do so on his or her behalf.  Failure to swear to the notice as required
herein shall not render the notice fatally defective, but failure to so verify
the notice may be considered by the City Council as a factor relating to the
truth of the allegations and to the weight to be given to the allegations
contained therein.
(Ord. 112, passed 9-4-1986)
§ 30.087  TOWN FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   The fiscal year for the Town of Lakeside, Texas, shall commence on
October 1 of each year and end on September 30 of the following year.
   (B)   This section shall take effect from and after its passage and
publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 80, passed 8-8-1977)
§ 30.088  ELECTION OF TOWN OFFICIALS BY PLURALITY.
   (A)   From the passage and effective date of this section, any and all
officials of the Town of Lakeside shall be elected by plurality vote.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PLURALITY VOTE.  The candidate who receives the highest number of votes
is elected, even though it may be less than 50% of the total number of votes
cast for that office.  Where only one person is to be elected in a race, the
candidate receiving the highest vote is the winner; where two are to be elected
from the same slate, the two highest candidates are the winners; where three
are to be elected the three highest are the winners; and so on.
   (C)   If two or more candidates are tied for high place, where only one is
to be elected, the candidates may agree in writing upon a method for settling
the tie, as for example by “casting lots” for the office.  The Mayor is the
“returning officer” who has the duty of calling the election if the tie is not
resolved by agreement, and with whom the written agreement is filed if it is
resolved in that manner.  After the canvas, the Mayor shall notify the tying
candidates that the tie has occurred and inform them of Tex. Election Code,
Art. 4.008, and set a deadline on the candidates for an agreement resolving the
tie.  In the event of a three-way tie, any tying candidate may withdraw his or
her name at any time prior to the deadline set by the Mayor.  If one candidate
withdraws in a three-way tie, the names of the other two candidates are placed
on the ballot for the special election; if neither candidate withdraws, all
three names are placed on the ballot.
   (D)   In the event a special election is held, the names of the tying
candidates are the only ones which can be placed on the ballot.  Write-in votes
are not allowed, and any attempted write-in vote is void.
(Ord. 54-A, passed 3-14-1977)
§ 30.089  ADOPTION OF STATE LAWS REGARDING CITIES AND TOWNS.
   (A)   The Town of Lakeside, Texas, hereby accepts and adopts the provisions
of Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Title 2, as amended, relating to cities and towns, in
lieu of any existing charter, and shall be vested with all the rights, powers,
privileges, immunities, and franchises therein contained.
   (B)   A copy of this section be recorded in the official minutes of the
city, and that a certified copy hereof shall be recorded in the deed records of
Tarrant County, Texas.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and approval and its recordation in the office of the County Clerk of
Tarrant County, Texas, and the deed records thereof.
(Ord. 23, passed 9-5-1961)
IDENTITY THEFT PREVENTION PROGRAM
§ 30.100  PROGRAM ADOPTION.
   The Town of Lakeside developed this Identity Theft Prevention Program
(“program”) pursuant to the Federal Trade Commission’s Red Flags Rule (“Rule”),
which implements § 114 of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of
2003. 16 C.F.R. § 681.2.  This program was developed for all departments of the
town with oversight and approval of the Town Council.
(Ord. 293, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 30.101  PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Establish an identity theft prevention program.  To establish an
identity theft prevention program designed to detect, prevent and mitigate
identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or an
existing covered account and to provide for continued administration of the
program in compliance with 16 C.F.R. Part 681 implementing §§ 114 and 315 of
the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA) of 2003.
   (B)   Establishing and fulfilling requirements of the Red Flags Rule.
      (1)   The Red Flags Rule (“rule”) defines IDENTITY THEFT as fraud
committed using the identifying information of another person and a RED FLAG
(red flag) as a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the
possible existence of identity theft.
      (2)   Under the rule, every financial institution and creditor is
required to establish an identity theft prevention program tailored to its
size, complexity and the nature of its operation.  The program must contain
reasonable policies and procedures to:
         (a)   Identify relevant red flags for new and existing covered
accounts and incorporate those red flags into the program;
         (b)   Detect red flags that have been incorporated into the program;
         (c)   Respond appropriately to any red flags that are detected to
prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
         (d)   Ensure the program is updated periodically, to reflect changes
in risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the creditor from
identity theft.
   (C)   Red Flags Rule definitions used in this program.
       TOWN.  The Town of Lakeside, Texas.
      COVERED ACCOUNT.
         (a)   Any utility account the town offers or maintains primarily for
personal, family or household purposes, that involves multiple payments or
transactions; and
         (b)   Any other account the utility offers or maintains for which
there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the utility from identity theft.
      CREDITORS.  The rule defines creditors in such manner as to include the
Town of Lakeside when it is dealing with utility accounts and such definition
is here adopted.
      IDENTIFYING INFORMATION.  Any name or number that may be used, alone or
in conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person,
including: name, address, telephone number, social security number, date of
birth, government issued driver’s license or identification number, alien
registration number, government passport number, employer or taxpayer
identification number, unique electronic identification number, computer’s
Internet Protocol address, or routing code.
      PROGRAM.  The identity theft prevention program for the town.
      PROGRAM ADMINISTRATOR.  The City Secretary/Administrator is the Program
Administrator for the program.
      UTILITY.  The water and sewer systems for the town.
(Ord. 293, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 30.102  IDENTIFICATION OF RED FLAGS.
   In order to identify relevant red flags, the utility considers the types of
accounts that it offers and maintains, the methods it provides to open its
accounts, the methods it provides to access its accounts, and its previous
experiences with identity theft.  The utility identifies the following red
flags, in each of the listed categories:
   (A)   Notifications and warnings from consumer credit reporting agencies. 
Red flags:
      (1)   Report of fraud accompanying a consumer credit report;
      (2)   Notice or report from a consumer credit agency of a credit freeze
on a customer or applicant;
      (3)   Notice or report from a consumer credit agency of an active duty
alert for an applicant; and
      (4)   Indication from a consumer credit report of activity that is
inconsistent with a customer’s usual pattern or activity, including but not
limited to:
         (a)   Recent and significant increase in volume of inquiries;
         (b)   Unusual number of recent credit applications;
         (c)   A material change in use of credit; and/or
         (d)   Accounts closed for cause or abuse.
   (B)   Suspicious documents.  Red flags:
      (1)   Identification document or card that appears to be forged, altered
or inauthentic;
      (2)   Identification document or card on which a person’s photograph or
physical description is not consistent with the person presenting the document;
      (3)   Other document with information that is not consistent with
existing customer information (such as if a person’s signature on a check
appears forged); and
      (4)   Application for service that appears to have been altered or
forged.
   (C)   Suspicious personal identifying information.  Red flags:
      (1)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with other
information the customer provides (example: inconsistent birth dates, lack of
correlation between social security number range and date of birth);
      (2)   Identifying information presented that is inconsistent with other
sources of information (for instance, social security number or an address not
matching an address on a credit report);
      (3)   Identifying information presented that is the same as information
shown on other applications that were found to be fraudulent;
      (4)   Identifying information presented that is consistent with
fraudulent activity (such as an invalid phone number or fictitious billing
address);
      (5)   Social security number presented that is the same as one given by
another customer;
      (6)   An address or phone number presented that is the same as that of
another person;
      (7)   A person fails to provide complete personal identifying information
on an application when reminded to do so (however, by law social security
numbers must not be required) or an applicant cannot provide information
requested beyond what could commonly be found in a purse or wallet; and
      (8)   A person’s identifying information is not consistent with the
information that is on file for the customer.
   (D)   Suspicious account activity or unusual use of account.  Red flags:
      (1)   Change of address for an account followed by a request to change
the account holder’s name;
      (2)   Payments stop on an otherwise consistently up-to-date account;
      (3)   Account used in a way that is not consistent with prior use
(example: very high activity);
      (4)   Mail sent to the account holder is repeatedly returned as
undeliverable;
      (5)   Notice to the utility that a customer is not receiving mail sent by
the Utility;
      (6)   Notice to the utility that an account has unauthorized activity;
      (7)   Breach in the utility’s computer system security; and
      (8)   Unauthorized access to or use of customer account information.
   (E)   Alerts from others.  Red flag:  Notice to the utility from a customer,
identity theft victim, fraud detection service, law enforcement or other person
that it has opened or is maintaining a fraudulent account for a person engaged
in identity theft.
(Ord. 293, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 30.103  DETECTING RED FLAGS.
   (A)   New accounts.  In order to detect any of the red flags identified
above associated with the opening of a new account, utility personnel will take
the following steps to obtain and verify the identity of the person opening the
account.  Detect:
      (1)   Require certain identifying information such as name, date of
birth, residential or business address, principal place of business for an
entity, driver’s license or other identification;
      (2)   Verify the customer’s identity (for instance, review a driver’s
license or other identification card);
      (3)   Review documentation showing the existence of a business entity;
      (4)   Request additional documentation to establish identity; and
      (5)   Independently contact the customer or business.
   (B)   Existing accounts.  In order to detect any of the red flags identified
above for an existing account, utility personnel will take the following steps
to monitor transactions with an account.  Detect:
      (1)   Verify the identification of customers if they request information
(in person, via telephone, via facsimile, via email);
      (2)   Verify the validity of requests to close accounts or change billing
addresses; and
      (3)   Verify changes in banking information given for billing and payment
purposes.
(Ord. 293, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 30.104  PREVENTING AND MITIGATING IDENTITY THEFT.
   In the event utility personnel detect any identified red flags, such
personnel shall take one or more of the following steps, depending on the
degree of risk posed by the red flag.
   (A)   Prevent and mitigate.
      (1)   Continue to monitor an account for evidence of Identity Theft;
      (2)   Contact the customer, sometimes through multiple methods;
      (3)   Change any passwords or other security devices that permit access
to accounts;
      (4)   Not open a new account;
      (5)   Close an existing account;
      (6)   Do not close the account, but monitor or contact authorities;
      (7)   Reopen an account with a new number;
      (8)   Notify the Program Administrator for determination of the
appropriate step(s) to take;
      (9)   Notify law enforcement; or
      (10)   Determine that no response is warranted under the particular
circumstances.
   (B)   Protect customer identifying information.  In order to further prevent
the likelihood of identity theft occurring with respect to utility accounts,
the utility will take the following steps with respect to its internal
operating procedures to protect customer identifying information:
      (1)   Ensure that its website is secure or provide clear notice that the
website is not secure;
      (2)   Where and when allowed, ensure complete and secure destruction of
paper documents and computer files containing customer information;
      (3)   Ensure that office computers are password protected and that
computer screens lock after a set period of time;
      (4)   Change passwords on office computers on a regular basis;
      (5)   Ensure all computers are backed up properly and any backup
information is secured;
      (6)   Keep offices to which the public has access clear of papers
containing customer information;
      (7)   Request only the last four digits of social security numbers (if
any);
      (8)   Ensure computer virus protection is up to date; and
      (9)   Require and keep only the kinds of customer information that are
necessary for utility purposes.
(Ord. 293, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 30.105  PROGRAM UPDATES.
   This program will be periodically reviewed and updated to reflect changes in
risks to customers and the soundness of the utility from identity theft.  At
least annually, the Program Administrator will consider the utility’s
experiences with identity theft situation, changes in identity theft methods,
changes in identity theft detection and prevention methods, changes in types of
accounts the utility maintains and changes in the utility’s business
arrangements with other entities, consult with law enforcement authorities, and
consult with other town personnel.  After considering these factors, the
Program Administrator will determine whether changes to the program, including
the listing of red flags, are warranted.  If warranted, the Program
Administrator will update the program or present the Town Council with his or
her recommended changes and the Town Council will make a determination of
whether to accept, modify or reject those changes to the program.
(Ord. 293, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 30.106  PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Oversight.  Responsibility for developing, implementing and updating
this program lies with an identity theft committee for the utility.  The
committee is headed by a Program Administrator, or his or her appointee.  One
or more other individuals appointed by the Program Administrator comprise the
remainder of the committee membership.  The Program Administrator will be
responsible for the program administration, for ensuring appropriate training
of utility staff on the program, for reviewing any staff reports regarding the
detection of red flags and the steps for preventing and mitigating identity
theft, determining which steps of prevention and mitigation should be taken in
particular circumstances and considering periodic changes to the program.
   (B)   Staff training and reports.
      (1)   Initially, all utility staff shall be trained either by or under
the direction of the Program Administrator in the detection of red flags, and
the responsive steps to be taken when a red flag is detected.  Thereafter, all
utility staff shall undergo update training not less than annually. 
Additionally, all new utility employees shall undergo training.
      (2)   Utility staff shall submit reports monthly concerning the utility’s
compliance with the program, the training that has been given and the
effectiveness of the policies and procedures in addressing the risk of identity
theft, including recommendations for changes to the program.  While incidents
of identity theft are to be reported immediately to the Program Administrator,
the monthly reports shall contain a recap of the incident and include the steps
taken to assist with resolution of the incident.
   (C)   Service provider arrangements.  In the event the utility engages a
service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more
accounts, including but not limited to franchise utility providers, the utility
will take the following steps to ensure the service provider performs its
activity in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to
detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft.
      (1)   Require, by contract or contract amendment, that service providers
have such policies and procedures in place; and
      (2)   Require, by contract or contract amendment, that service providers
review the utility’s program and report any red flags to the Program
Administrator.
   (D)   Specific program elements and confidentiality.  For the effectiveness
of identity theft prevention programs, the Red Flag Rule envisions a degree of
confidentiality regarding the utility’s specific practices relating to identity
theft detection, prevention and mitigation.  Therefore, under this program,
knowledge of such specific practices are to be limited to the Identity Theft
Committee and those employees who need to know them for purposes of preventing
identity theft.  Because this program is to be adopted by a public body and
thus publicly available, it would be counterproductive to list these specific
practices here.  Therefore, only the program’s general red flag detection,
implementation and prevention practices are listed herein.
(Ord. 293, passed 11-13-2008)
§ 30.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of §
30.031 shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $500 (Tex. Penal Code § 12.23).
   (C)   This section does not serve to limit any other remedies available to
the jurisdiction in law or equity.
   (D)   Each violation of this section shall constitute a separate offense.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions of §§
30.045 through
30.052, irrespective of whether or not the verbiage of each section contains
the specific language that the violation or failure to comply is unlawful and
is an offense.  Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
30.045 through
30.052 or any of the provisions of a permit issued pursuant hereto, or who
shall fail to comply with the terms hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in the sum not to exceed $200 and
the violation of each separate provision thereof shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 115, passed 8-13-1987; Ord. 250, passed 6-12-2003; Ord. 258, passed 8-14-
2003; Ord. 394, passed 1-12-2017)
CHAPTER 31:  TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.001   Reserved
   
31.002   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
31.003   Police Reserve Force
   
31.004   Town Secretary and Town Treasurer
   
31.005   Municipal Court of Record
Water and Sanitation Department
   
31.020   Creation
   
31.021   Rights, powers, and duties
   
31.022   Policy and procedures
   
31.023   Creation, appointment, and qualifications of Water Commissioner
   
31.024   Term of office
   
31.025   Removal and vacancy
   
31.026   Scope of activities
   
31.027   Operational funds
   
31.028   Conflict of interest prohibited
   
31.029   Reports to City Council
Park and Recreation Commission
   
31.070   Establishment
   
31.071   Term of office
   
31.072   Removal from Commission; vacancies
   
31.073   Organization
   
31.074   Jurisdiction; scope of activities
   
31.075   Funds for operation
   
31.076   Assistance by other departments
   
31.077   Financial interest by Commission members and employees prohibited
   
31.078   Conflicts between Commission and other commissions to be resolved by
City Council
   
31.079   Commission to file quarterly report with City Council
Police Department
   
31.095   Creation
   
31.096   Powers and duties of Chief of Police
   
31.097   Selection and appointment of members
   
31.098   Powers and duties of officers and privates generally
   
31.099   Chief to prescribe uniforms, badges, and arms of force; unauthorized
wearing of uniform or badge
   
31.100   Suspension of officers and employees
   
31.101   Reserved
   
31.102   Effective date
Code Enforcement Department
   
31.115   Creation
   
31.116   Powers and duties
   
31.117   Reasonable inspection
   
31.118   Identification of code enforcement officer
   
31.119   Authority to issue citations
Town Administrator
   
31.130   Office ratified and defined
   
31.131   Appointment; qualifications; compensation
   
31.132   Removal or suspension
   
31.133   Acting Town Administrator
   
31.134   Powers and duties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.001  RESERVED.
§ 31.002  PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established for the Town of Lakeside,
Texas, a Planning and Zoning Commission, which shall be composed of five
members.  The members shall be resident citizens of the Town of Lakeside and
qualified voters.  All members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be
appointed by a majority of the members of the City Council attending a meeting
at which appointment to the Commission is considered.  In the event of a tie
vote on the appointment of a person to the Planning and Zoning Commission, the
Mayor may vote to break the tie in order to appoint a person to the Planning
and Zoning Commission.  Each member of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
be appointed to a place number on the Planning and Zoning Commission, and those
places shall be Place 1, Place 2, Place 3, Place 4, and Place 5.  All
appointments shall be for a term of two years, save and except for appointments
that fill vacancies that occur in the Planning and Zoning Commission.  Persons
who are members of the Planning and Zoning Commission as of the date of passage
of this section shall continue to be members of the Commission, except where
appointment is required by the terms of this section at the time of its
passage.
   (B)   Upon the effective date hereof and at a regularly called and scheduled
meeting of the City Council of the Town of Lakeside held in July of each year,
the City Council shall appoint persons to serve as members of the Planning and
Zoning Commission.  In even-numbered years, the City Council shall appoint
members to fill Place 2 and Place 4 of the Planning and Zoning Commission.  In
odd-numbered years, the City Council shall appoint persons to fill Place 1,
Place 3, and Place 5 of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   A person appointed to the Planning and Zoning Commission may be
removed from the position by a vote of a majority of the City Council attending
a meeting at which removal from the Commission is considered.  In the event of
a tie vote, the Mayor may cast a vote to break the tie in order to make a
determination of whether the member shall be removed.  Any member appointed to
the Planning and Zoning Commission may resign his or her position at any time. 
All vacancies occurring on the Planning and Zoning Commission shall be filled
for the unexpired term of that position in the same manner as provided for the
original appointment of a person to the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (D)   All members of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall serve without
compensation.
(Ord. 144, passed 7-2-1992)
§ 31.003  POLICE RESERVE FORCE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Police Reserve Force for the Town of
Lakeside, Texas.  The reserve force may number up to 15 persons.
   (B)   Members of the Police Reserve Force shall be appointed or hired by the
Chief of Police and the appointment or hiring must be confirmed and approved by
the City Council. Members of the Police Reserve Force serve at the sole
discretion of the Chief of Police and may be relieved of their duties solely by
the Chief of Police.
   (C)   Members of the Police Reserve Force shall serve at the complete
direction of the Chief of Police and may be called into active service at any
time the Chief of Police considers it necessary to have additional police
officers to preserve the peace and enforce the law.
   (D)   Members of the Police Reserve Force may be appointed to serve without
compensation, or they may be hired and be compensated in amounts determined by
the Chief of Police. The Town of Lakeside will provide hospital and medical
assistance to the members of the Police Reserve Force who sustain injuries in
the course of performing their duties to the extent allowed by law. Reserve
officers and their survivors shall be eligible for death benefits as set out in
Tex. Gov’t Code, §§ 615.001 et seq., as may be amended from time to time. It is
provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize
or permit a member of the Police Reserve Force, whether appointed or hired, to
become eligible for participation in any program provided by this municipality
or by state statute that is normally considered a financial benefit of full-
time employment, other than hospital and medical coverage as provided
hereinabove, or for any pension fund created by statute or by this municipality
for the benefit of full-time paid police officers or other employees.
   (E)   Reserve police officers shall act only in a supplementary capacity to
the regular police force.
   (F)   Each Police Reserve Force officer must have a full police
certification and must comply with all training standards established by the
Texas Commission on Law Enforcement Standards and Education.
   (G)   No person appointed to the Police Reserve Force may carry a weapon or
otherwise act as a police officer until so authorized by the Chief of Police
and when discharging official duties as a duly constituted police officer.
   (H)   Each Police Reserve Force officer is hereby required and will attend
all formal and informal training as so directed by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 122, passed 5-11-1989; Ord. 259, passed 11-13-2003; Ord. 401, passed 2-
14-2018)
§ 31.004  TOWN SECRETARY AND TOWN TREASURER.
   (A)   There is hereby created for the Town of Lakeside the Office of Town
Secretary and Town Treasurer, who shall be a knowledgeable person recommended
by the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The Town Secretary and the Town Treasurer shall receive a salary to be
set by the City Council.  The Town Secretary and Town Treasurer shall not be
removed from office during the term for which the person is appointed except
for good cause.
   (C)   The term of Office for the Town Secretary and Town Treasurer is two
years and shall run concurrent with the office of Mayor.  The first appointed
Town Secretary and Town Treasurer shall serve until the next mayoral election,
at which time the office shall become vacant.
   (D)   Any vacancy in the office of Town Treasurer or Town Secretary by
death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled in the same manner as the
original appointments.
   (E)   The City Council shall have the power to combine the Office of Town
Secretary-Treasurer and the person shall be appointed as prescribed in division
(A) above.
   (F)   The Town Secretary and Town Treasurer shall exercise all powers and
duties in his or her function as the Town Secretary or Town Treasurer as is
provided by ordinance and by the laws of Texas governing those offices.
(Ord. 77, passed 10-13-1975)
§ 31.005  MUNICIPAL COURT OF RECORD.
   (A)   Court established. The Town Council hereby establishes the Lakeside
Municipal Court as a Municipal Court of Record in order to provide a more
efficient disposition of cases arising in the town, and in order to more
effectively enforce the ordinances of the town. The Municipal Court shall
become a court of record and shall be the town's only municipal court from and
after the effective date of this chapter, and it shall be known as ‘The
Municipal Court of Record of the Town of Lakeside.’
   (B)   Municipal court jurisdiction. The municipal court of record has the
jurisdiction provided by Tex. Government Code, Ch. 30 for municipal courts of
record.
   (C)   Municipal court judge. The judge of the municipal court of record of
the Town of Lakeside shall be appointed by the Town Council for a term of two
years. The municipal judge must be a licensed attorney in good standing in the
state of Texas and must have two or more years of experience in the practice of
law in Texas. The judge must be a citizen of the United States and of the State
of Texas. The Town Council shall establish the salary of the judge, which shall
not be based directly or indirectly on fines or costs collected by the court.
Such salary may not be diminished during the term for which the judge is
appointed.
   (D)   Vacancies. If a vacancy occurs in the office of a municipal judge of
the court of record, the Town Council shall by ordinance appoint a qualified
person to fill the office for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (E)   Substitute judges. The Town Council may appoint one or more qualified
persons to be available to serve for the municipal judge when he or she is
temporarily absent due to illness, family death, continuing legal or judicial
education programs, or any other reason. The municipal judge shall select one
of the qualified persons appointed by the Town Council to serve during the
absence of the municipal judge. A substitute judge, while serving as a
municipal judge, has all the powers and shall discharge all the duties of the
municipal judge. A substitute judge must meet the qualifications prescribed for
the municipal judge.
   (F)   Appointment of Court Clerk and court personnel. The Town Manager shall
appoint a clerk of the municipal court of record who shall perform duties in
accordance with state law and town ordinances. During proceedings of the Court,
the Clerk and other court personnel shall serve at the direction of the
Municipal Court Judge. The Clerk of the Municipal Court of record shall keep
the records of the municipal court of record, issue process, and perform the
duties described in Tex. Gov’t Code, § 30.00009.
   (G)   Court reporting. The proceedings of trials in the municipal court of
record shall be recorded by a good quality electronic recording device and kept
for a minimum period of 21 days after the last day of the court proceedings,
trial, or denial of a motion for new trial, whichever occurs last. If the case
is appealed, the proceedings shall be transcribed from the recording by an
Official Court Reporter. The Municipal Court Clerk shall appoint a Court
Reporter who must meet the qualifications provided by law for official court
reporters.
   (H)   Jury. The Court Clerk shall supervise the selection of persons for
jury service in the municipal court of record.
   (I)   Transcript preparation fee. In the event of an appeal, the appellant
shall pay a transcript preparation fee in the amount of $25. The transcript
preparation fee does not include the fee for an actual transcript of the
proceedings, which the appellant must pay. The Clerk shall note the payment of
the fee on the docket of the court. If the case is reversed on appeal, the fee
shall be refunded to the appellant. In addition to the transcript preparation
fee, the fee for the actual transcript of the proceedings and statement of
facts must be paid by the appellant.
(Ord. 75, passed 6-9-1975; Am. Ord. 405, passed 6-14-2018)
WATER AND SANITATION DEPARTMENT
§ 31.020  CREATION.
   The existence of a Water and Sanitation Department for the Town of Lakeside
is here acknowledged and reconfirmed.  To the extent necessary, there is hereby
created the Water and Sanitation Department for the Town of Lakeside.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
§ 31.021  RIGHTS, POWERS, AND DUTIES.
   Subject to the exceptions hereinafter enumerated, the Town of Lakeside
hereby adopts Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, Ch. 402, as the statement of rights,
powers, duties, and obligations of the Town of Lakeside, and through the town,
the Water and Sanitation Department of the Town of Lakeside.  The adoption of
Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Ch. 402, is restricted to that portion of Tex. Local
Gov’t Code, Ch. 402, that pertains to water, sewage, and drainage systems of a
municipality.  There is excepted from Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Ch. 402, herein
adopted any section or subsection of Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Ch. 402, that
pertains to a home rule city, a town or city of a different type than the Town
of Lakeside or a town or city with a required population in excess of the
population of Lakeside.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
§ 31.022  POLICY AND PROCEDURES.
   The policies, rules, procedures, regulations, employee policies, and water
and sanitation rates presently in existence for the Water and Sanitation
Department of the Town of Lakeside are hereby reconfirmed and readopted as
those for the Water and Sanitation Department.  The policies, rules,
regulations, procedures, employee policies, and rates may be altered, deleted,
changed, and amended by resolution of the City Council of the Town of
Lakeside.  If the change, deletion, alteration, or amendment is by law required
to be by ordinance, then same shall be accomplished by ordinance.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
§ 31.023  CREATION, APPOINTMENT, AND QUALIFICATIONS OF WATER  COMMISSIONER.
   There is hereby created the position of Water Commissioner of the Town of
Lakeside.  The person shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and
consent of the City Council.  No person shall be eligible for appointment as
Water Commissioner who is not a citizen of the United States and a resident of
the Town of Lakeside.  The Water Commissioner shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
§ 31.024  TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the Water Commissioner shall be a period of two years
that runs concurrently with the term of office of the Mayor.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
§ 31.025  REMOVAL AND VACANCY.
   The Water Commissioner shall be subject to removal from office and may be
removed from office by the City Council for any cause deemed sufficient by the
City Council.  The Water Commissioner shall receive notice of the placing of
the subject matter of his or her removal on the agenda of any regular or
special meeting of the City Council at least 20 days prior to the meeting.  The
question of the removal of the Water Commissioner shall be considered by the
City Council in executive session unless the Water Commissioner demands a full
public hearing, in writing, of any charges asserted against him or her at least
ten days prior to the meeting.  Any vacancy created in the position of Water
Commissioner, whether by death, resignation, or removal, shall be filled by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
§ 31.026  SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The Water Commissioner shall be responsible for determining overall
policies, regulations, and programs concerning acquisition, improvement,
maintenance, and operation of the municipal water and sanitation system of the
Town of Lakeside.
   (B)   Without limiting the scope of the activities, the Water Commissioner
shall:
      (1)   In cooperation with city staff, make plans for the future
development of Lakeside so that an adequate supply of water and sanitation
facilities are available to the town citizens, and make presentations of same
from time to time to the City Council;
      (2)   Participate in various non-town boards and commissions that address
themselves to the development of regional, municipal, and county water and
sanitation plans;
      (3)   In cooperation with city staff, assist in the preparation of
applications to any source for grants and other financial assistance that may
be available for use in obtaining water or sanitation facilities, supplies of
water, and equipment, services or supplies for improving or maintaining the
public water and sanitation facilities;
      (4)   In cooperation with city staff, assist in the preparation and
presentation of proposed budgets and water and sanitation charges each fiscal
year for all city programs involving the water and sanitation system of the
Town of Lakeside; and
      (5)   Perform any other duties as may be requested from time to time by
the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
§ 31.027  OPERATIONAL FUNDS.
   The Water Commissioner shall become familiar with the budget adopted by the
City Council each year.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
§ 31.028  CONFLICT OF INTEREST PROHIBITED.
   The Water Commissioner may not be an employee, officer, director, agent,
consultant, or attorney for any business entity that submits bids for the sale
or lease to or from the Town of Lakeside of any materials, supplies, or
services or which furnishes any materials, supplies, or services to the Town of
Lakeside.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
§ 31.029  REPORTS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   The Water Commissioner shall make a report to the City Council no less often
than quarterly, and more often if requested, concerning projects, planning,
employees, and the then present state of the budget allocated to and
expenditures made for programs governing all water and sanitation facilities
and services of the Town of Lakeside.  The City Council may appoint one of its
own members to be a direct liaison with the Water Commissioner, and the member
of the City Council may make reports and recommendations to the Council in lieu
of the Water Commissioner.
(Ord. 133, passed 7-11-1991)
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 31.070  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established a Park and Recreation Commission of the Town of
Lakeside consisting of no less than three members who shall be appointed by the
City Council.  No person shall be eligible for appointment to membership on the
Commission who is not a citizen of the United States and a resident of the Town
of Lakeside.  The members of the Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973; Ord. 68-A, passed 7-11-1977)
§ 31.071  TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of members of the Commission shall be two years.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 31.072  REMOVAL FROM COMMISSION; VACANCIES.
   Members of the Park and Recreation Commission shall be subject to removal
from office and may be removed from office by the City Council in the interest
of the public service for any cause deemed sufficient by the City Council, but
only after a public hearing before the City Council or charges publicly made,
if demanded by the member within ten days after written notice.  Any vacancy in
the membership of the Commission shall be filled by the City Council, giving
consideration to recommendations submitted by the remaining members.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 31.073  ORGANIZATION.
   The Park and Recreation Commission biennially shall elect one of its members
as Chairperson of the Commission and shall appoint a Secretary-Treasurer who
may, but need not be, a member of the Commission.  The Park and Recreation
Commission shall hold regular meetings at least once every month and shall
provide rules and regulations for the operation and performance of the duties
of its employees.  All formal meetings of the Commission shall be open to the
public, held in the Town Hall and final action on matters before the Commission
shall be taken only in regular public meetings.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 31.074  JURISDICTION; SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES.
   The Commission shall, subject to approval of the City Council, be
responsible for determining overall policies, regulations, and programs
governing acquisition, improvement, maintenance, and operation of all public
parks, parkways, bridle paths, nature hike and bike trails, lakes and other
recreation areas, in accordance with the approved plan for the Town of
Lakeside, and the grounds surrounding all municipal buildings owned or
controlled by the Town of Lakeside.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 31.075  FUNDS FOR OPERATION.
   The Commission shall not make any expenditure of money or incur any
liability during any fiscal year beyond the amount of money appropriated in the
annual budget of the Park and Recreation Commission as approved by the City
Council for the purpose.  Disbursements must be made by checks signed by the
Mayor and the Town Secretary.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 31.076  ASSISTANCE BY OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   Wherever feasible, the Park and Recreation Commission shall utilize the
talents and services of the other town commissions.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 31.077  FINANCIAL INTEREST BY COMMISSION MEMBERS AND EMPLOYEES PROHIBITED.
   No member or employee of the Commission shall have a financial interest,
direct or indirect, in any contract with the Town of Lakeside or be financially
interested, direct or indirect, in the sale or lease to or from the Town of
Lakeside of any land, materials, supplies, or services.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 31.078  CONFLICTS BETWEEN COMMISSION AND OTHER COMMISSIONS TO BE RESOLVED BY
CITY COUNCIL.
   In the event of any conflict of jurisdiction arising between this Commission
and any other Commission of the town government, or in regard to any
administrative detail thereof, the same shall be referred to the City Council,
and its decision shall be final.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973)
§ 31.079  COMMISSION TO FILE QUARTERLY REPORT WITH CITY COUNCIL.
   It shall be the duty of the Commission at the end of each quarter, to file
with the City Council a full and detailed report of its business and
operations, and to make the  recommendations to the Council as it may deem
advisable for the improvement and betterment of the service and facilities of
the Commission.
(Ord. 68, passed 3-12-1973)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.095  CREATION.
   There is hereby created and established for the Town of Lakeside, Texas, a
Police Department to be directed by a Chief of Police who shall be appointed by
the Mayor and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 57, passed 9-11-1972)
§ 31.096  POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Police Department shall be composed of the Chief of Police and of
any other officers, patrolmen, and employees as the Mayor and City Council may
determine.  He or she shall appoint his or her lieutenants to be approved by
the Mayor and City Council.  The Chief of Police shall have immediate direction
and control of the Police Department, subject to the supervision of the Mayor
and also subject to the rules, regulations, and orders as the City Council may
prescribe, and shall promulgate all orders, rules, and regulations for the
government of the police force.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may be either part- or full-time as the City
Council may direct from time to time.  His or her office shall be open at all
hours, day or night, and if for any reason the office is closed in case of
emergency he or she shall leave an officer on telephone call or notify the
Mayor who then shall make whatever arrangements he or she deems necessary.  In
case of the disability of the Chief of Police, by reason of sickness, absence
from the town, or other cause, the Mayor shall designate one of the lieutenants
of police to act as Chief of Police during the disability.  Any person serving
as acting Chief of Police longer than 30 days shall be entitled to the salary
of the Chief of Police during the remaining service as acting Chief of Police. 
The Chief of Police shall have like powers, rights, authority, and jurisdiction
as are by law vested in town marshals.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall receive a salary to be fixed by the City
Council.  He or she shall remain in office, after his or her appointment, at
the pleasure of the City Council, and for the term, or terms, as the City
Council directs.
(Ord. 57, passed 9-11-1972; Ord. 57-A, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 31.097  SELECTION AND APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   (A)   The members of the Police Department, other than the Chief of Police
and lieutenant, shall be selected from a list of eligibles prepared by the
Chief and the Town Mayor, and in accordance with the rules and regulations as
the City Council may prescribe.
   (B)   Each member of the Police Department, both rank and file, shall have
issued to them a Police Department I.D. card, signed by the Chief of Police. 
The Mayor will sign the Chief’s card, in which the date of his or her
appointment shall be stated, and such shall be his or her commission.
   (C)   Each member of the Police Department shall, before entering upon his
or her duties, subscribe to an oath that he or she will faithfully without fear
or favor, perform the duties of his or her office, and the oath shall be filed
and preserved with the records of the Department, and shall, in addition,
execute the necessary bond required by the City Council, which shall also be
filed and preserved with the records of the Department.
   (D)   The salaries of each member shall be set by the City Council.
(Ord. 57, passed 9-11-1972; Ord. 57-A, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 31.098  POWERS AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS AND PRIVATES GENERALLY.
   The officers of the Police Department of the Town of Lakeside shall be and
they are hereby invested with all the power and authority given to them as
peace officers under the laws of the State of Texas in taking cognizance of,
and in enforcing the criminal laws of the state and the ordinances and
regulations of the town within the limits of the town, and it shall be the duty
of each such officer to use their best endeavors to prevent the commission with
the town of offenses against the laws of the state, and against the ordinances
and regulations of the town; to observe and enforce all the laws, ordinances,
and regulations; to detect and arrest offenders against the same; to preserve
the good order of the town, and to secure the inhabitants thereof from
violence, and the property therein from injury.  The police officers shall have
no power or authority in civil matters, but shall execute any criminal warrant
or warrant of arrest that may be placed in their hands by the duly constituted
authorities of the town.  The police officer shall not receive any fee or other
compensation for any services rendered in the performance of his or her duty,
other than the salary paid him or her by the town, nor shall he or she receive
a fee as a witness in any case arising under the criminal laws of the state, or
under the ordinances or regulations of the town and prosecuted in the
corporation court of the town.  Each police officer may serve all process
issuing out of the corporation court anywhere in the county.
(Ord. 57, passed 9-11-1972; Ord. 57-A, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 31.099  CHIEF TO PRESCRIBE UNIFORMS, BADGES, AND ARMS OF FORCE; UNAUTHORIZED
WEARING OF UNIFORM OR BADGE.
   The Chief of Police shall prescribe the uniforms and badges for the members
of the police force, and direct the manner in which the members of the force
shall be armed.
(Ord. 57, passed 9-11-1972; Ord. 57-A, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 31.100  SUSPENSION OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   The Chief of Police shall have the exclusive right to suspend any of the
officers or employees who may be under his or her jurisdiction and control for
incompetence, neglect of duty, immorality, drunkenness, failure to obey orders
given by the proper authority or for any other just and reasonable cause.  If
any officer or employee be suspended, as herein provided, the Chief of Police
shall forthwith, in writing, certify the fact together with the cause for the
suspension, to the Mayor, who shall within five days from the receipt of the
certificate, if demanded by the suspended officer or employee to do so, proceed
to inquire into the cause of the suspension and render judgment thereon, which
judgment, if the charge be sustained, may be suspension, reduction in rank, or
dismissal, and the judgment shall be final, except as may be otherwise provided
herein.
(Ord. 57, passed 9-11-1972; Ord. 57-A, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 31.101  RESERVED.
§ 31.102  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective from and after passage and publication
hereof.
(Ord. 57, passed 9-11-1972; Ord. 57-A, passed 12-1-1988)
CODE ENFORCEMENT DEPARTMENT
§ 31.115  CREATION.
   (A)   There is established the Department of Code Enforcement within the
administration of the Town of Lakeside. There is established the position of
code enforcement officer within such department.
   (B)   The code enforcement officer shall be appointed by the City
Administrator with the approval of the City Council. Such officer may appoint
one or more assistant code enforcement officers as deemed necessary by the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 318, passed 11-10-2010)
§ 31.116  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Department of Code Enforcement and the code enforcement officer are
authorized to enforce the provisions of all codes or regulations pertaining to
the existence, construction, re-construction, maintenance and repair or any
other matter pertaining to structures located in the town and pertaining to the
use of structures and property within the town, including zoning regulations.
The code enforcement officer shall have the power to render interpretations of
codes and regulations and to adopt, subject to approval of the City
Administrator, and enforce rules and supplemental regulations in order to
clarify the application of provisions. Where the duties of the town’s Building
Official and the code enforcement officer shall overlap, the Building Official
shall have prior and superior authority as to interpretations.
(Ord. 318, passed 11-10-2010)
§ 31.117  REASONABLE INSPECTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of ascertaining whether violations of the codes and
regulations of the town exist, the code enforcement officer or his or her
assistants and deputies are authorized at all reasonable times to inspect:
      (1)   The exterior of a structure and premises which contain no
structure; and
      (2)   The interior of a structure, either with the permission of the
owner, occupant or person in control or by use of a search warrant.
   (B)   The code enforcement officer and his or her authorized representatives
shall, in accordance with Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 18.05, as it
may be amended from time to time, be authorized to make inspections of all
buildings, structures or premises within the town for the purpose of
determining compliance with the codes and regulations of the town that fall
within the province of the Department and to obtain search warrants as provided
in such article.
(Ord. 318, passed 11-10-2010)
§ 31.118  IDENTIFICATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The code enforcement officer and his or her assistants and deputies shall be
supplied with official Town of Lakeside identification, and upon request, they
shall exhibit such identification when performing any duties imposed and
authorized by this subchapter and other regulations adopted by the town.
(Ord. 318, passed 11-10-2010)
§ 31.119  AUTHORITY TO ISSUE CITATIONS.
   The code enforcement officer and his or her assistants and deputies are
authorized to issue citations for violations of all codes and regulations
adopted by the town that are within the province and duties of the Department.
(Ord. 318, passed 11-10-2010)
TOWN ADMINISTRATOR
§ 31.130  OFFICE RATIFIED AND DEFINED.
   The position of Town Administrator, as it has existed in the town, is hereby
ratified and more formally defined as follows in this subchapter.
(Ord. 347, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 31.131  APPOINTMENT; QUALIFICATIONS; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall appoint a Town Administrator for an indefinite
term. The Town Administrator shall be chosen by the City Council by a majority
vote of its entire membership and solely on the basis of executive and
administrative training, experience, ability and character without regard to
political consideration.
   (B)   The Town Administrator shall receive compensation as may be fixed by
the City Council.
(Ord. 347, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 31.132  REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION.
   The Town Administrator may be removed or suspended from office at the will
of the Council by a two-thirds vote of its entire membership. The action of the
Council in removing the Town Administrator shall be final, it being the
intention of this section to vest authority and fix all responsibility for such
removal on the City Council.
(Ord. 347, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 31.133  ACTING TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   By letter filed with the Town Secretary, the Town Administrator shall
designate a qualified administrative employee of the town to exercise the
powers and perform the duties of the Town Administrator during the Town
Administrator’s temporary absence or disability. The Council may revoke such
designation at any time and appoint another such employee of the town until the
Town Administrator returns.
(Ord. 347, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 31.134  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Town Administrator shall:
   (A)   Be responsible for the proper administration of all affairs of the
town;
   (B)   Recommend the appointment and removal of all department heads except
the Police Chief to the City Council;
   (C)   Recommend to the Mayor the appointment and removal of all subordinate
employees of the town;
   (D)   Direct and supervise the administration of all departments, offices
and agencies of the town;
   (E)   Recommend to the City Council a standard schedule of pay, including
minimum, intermediate and maximum ranges, and a uniform personnel policy for
all town employees;
   (F)   Attend all City Council meetings, unless excused in writing by the
Mayor, and shall have the right to take part in discussions, but shall have no
vote;
   (G)   Attend all board and commission meetings; the Town Administrator may
designate a department director to attend in his or her place;
   (H)   Assist the Mayor in ensuring that the laws of the state and ordinances
of this town and other acts of the City Council subject to enforcement by the
Town Administrator, or by officers subject to the Town Administrator’s
direction or supervision, are faithfully enforced;
   (I)   Assist the Mayor in the preparation of the annual draft budget and
draft capital improvement budget for the City Council. The Town Administrator
is responsible for the implementation, monitoring and administration of the
annual budget;
   (J)   The Town Administrator may transfer resources in the amount budgeted
between departments as the need may arise, but may not increase the total
amount appropriated for each fund type without City Council approval through a
formal budget amendment; all such transfers shall be ratified by the City
Council during a midyear budget review;
   (K)   The Town Administrator may authorize department heads to transfer
resources in the amount budgeted within their respective departments;
   (L)   Recommend to the City Council adoption of such policies, measures,
ordinances and resolutions as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the
health, safety or welfare of the community, or for the improvement of the
operation of the town;
   (M)   Prepare such other reports as the City Council may require concerning
the operations of town departments, offices and agencies subject to the Town
Administrator’s direction and supervision;
   (N)   Keep the City Council advised as to the financial condition and future
needs of the town;
   (O)   Investigate all complaints in relation to the administration of the
town;
   (P)   No contract may be let except by the Mayor, unless the Town
Administrator is specifically authorized to do so by the City Council on their
behalf;
   (Q)   Administer the purchase of all materials, supplies and equipment for
which funds are provided in the budget; and purchase materials and supplies
necessary for operation of town services for amounts up to and including
$25,000 and less than $50,000 for items approved as line items in the budget or
with the approval of the City Council to the extent funds have been provided in
the budget. All purchases of $50,000 or more shall be made in accordance with
the competitive bidding requirements. No purchase shall be made, contract let,
or obligation incurred which exceeds the current budget appropriation without a
supplemental appropriation by the City Council;
   (R)   Perform such other duties as are specified or may be required or
directed by the City Council.
(Ord. 347, passed 3-21-2013)
CHAPTER 32:  FINANCE
Section
   
32.01   Delinquent property taxes
   
32.02   Municipal Court Technology Fund
   
32.03   Municipal Court Building Security Fund
   
32.04   Fees for services of peace officers; court costs; special expense
   
32.05   Taxation of telecommunications services
   
32.06   Town sales tax on residential use of gas and electricity
§ 32.01  DELINQUENT PROPERTY TAXES.
   (A)   (1)   The Town of Lakeside adopts and imposes the penalties for
delinquent taxes as authorized and set out in Tex. Tax Code, §§ 33.07 and
33.08, and any successor statute thereto.
      (2)   The penalties imposed and adopted by this section shall apply to
taxes assessed for the year 2001 and all years thereafter.
      (3)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law and it is so ordained.
   (B)   (1)   An additional penalty on delinquent taxes on personal property
for the tax year 2005 and subsequent years is hereby authorized and imposed as
provided in Tex. Tax Code, § 33.11, in the amount of 20% of the delinquent tax,
penalties and interest if the tax on the personal property becomes delinquent
on or after February 1 of any year and remains delinquent on the sixtieth day
thereafter.
      (2)   The Mayor of the Town of Lakeside is authorized to execute a
contract with the present private tax collection law firm reflecting the
imposition and collection of the amounts, and is further authorized to execute
any future contracts with a private tax collection law firm that contains
similar provisions as may be authorized by the Tax Code.
      (3)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and publication as required by law, and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 222, passed 10-12-2000; Ord. 274, passed 4-13-2006)
§ 32.02  MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   There is here reassessed and continued in effect a fund to be known as
the Municipal Court Technology Fund (hereafter called “the Fund”).  It shall be
administered by and under the direction and supervision of, and expenditures
made from it only after approval of, the City Council of the Town of Lakeside,
Texas.
   (B)   A defendant convicted of a misdemeanor offense in the Municipal Court
of the Town of Lakeside shall be assessed court costs in an amount set or
required by State of Texas law in addition to any and all other court costs
heretofore permitted and assessed as provided by law or ordinance.
   (C)   A person shall be considered convicted if:
      (1)   A sentence is imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person is placed on community supervision, including deferred
adjudication community supervision; or
      (3)   The Court defers final disposition of the person’s case.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Clerk shall collect the costs and pay the funds to
the Town Secretary/Administrator for deposit in the Fund.
   (E)   The Fund may be used only to finance the purchase of technological
enhancements for the Municipal Court, including:
      (1)   Computer systems;
      (2)   Computer networks;
      (3)   Computer hardware;
      (4)   Computer software;
      (5)   Imaging systems;
      (6)   Electronic kiosks;
      (7)   Electronic ticket writers; and
      (8)   Docket management systems.
      (9)   For any other purpose that may now or subsequently be allowed by
law.
   (F)   This section shall take effect immediately on passage, but enactment
of this section shall not void or render unenforceable all assessments for the
Fund made under previous ordinances enacted by the Town of Lakeside.
   (G)   The fee to be assessed as provided herein shall continue until
repealed by the City Council or by state law.  All monies in the present Fund
shall be a part of the Fund here adopted.  The Fund shall remain in existence
until all money contained therein has been expended as provided herein.
(Ord. 299, passed 6-11-2009)
§ 32.03  MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   The Municipal Court Building Security Fund (referred to in this
section as the “Fund”) is hereby created.  All monies deposited into the Fund
shall be expended in accordance with this section.
   (B)   Any defendant convicted in a trial in Municipal Court for a
misdemeanor offense shall be charged and shall pay as a cost of court, in
addition to all other costs of court, a security fee in an amount set or
required by State of Texas law.  For purposes of this section:
      (1)   A defendant is considered convicted if:
         (a)   A sentence is imposed on the defendant;
         (b)   The defendant receives community supervision, including deferred
adjudication;
         (c)   The court defers final disposition of the defendant’s case; or
         (d)   Under any other conditions set by law whereby a person is deemed
or considered convicted.
      (2)   A “trial” means the whole or any part of the procedure which the
law provides for bringing offenders to justice, including:
         (a)   The entry of a judgment of conviction, regardless of the
imposition of a sentence or fine;
         (b)   The entering of a plea by a defendant and the deferring of final
disposition of the defendant’s case; and
         (c)   Any other method provided by law for the final disposition of a
charge against a defendant.
   (C)   The Clerk of the Municipal Court shall collect the costs and pay them
to the Town Treasurer or to any other official who discharges the duties
commonly delegated to the Town Treasurer.  The Town Treasurer shall establish a
separate fund to be known as the Municipal Court Security Fund and the costs
imposed by this section shall be deposited into the Fund.
   (D)   Funds shall be administered under the direction of the City Council. 
The Fund may be used to finance the following when used for the purpose of
providing security services for the Municipal Court:
      (1)   The purchase or repair of x-ray machines and conveying systems;
      (2)   Hand-held metal detectors;
      (3)   Walk-through metal detectors;
      (4)   Identification cards and systems;
      (5)   Electronic locking and surveillance equipment;
      (6)   Bailiffs, municipal police officers or police reserve officers, or
contract security personnel during times when they are providing appropriate
security services;
      (7)   Signage;
      (8)   Confiscated weapon inventory and tracking systems;
      (9)   Locks, chains, or other security hardware;
      (10)   The cost and expense of providing continuing education of security
issues to personnel who work with or for the Municipal Court, including the
judges of the Court; and/or
      (11)   Under any other circumstances that may be allowed by law at the
present time or in the future.
(Ord. 188, passed 8-7-1997)
§ 32.04  FEES FOR SERVICES OF PEACE OFFICERS; COURT COSTS; SPECIAL EXPENSE.
   (A)   The Town of Lakeside shall impose a fee for the services of peace
officers as established and set out in Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Art.
102.011.  If Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Art. 102.011, is amended or a
successor statute passed, then the Town of Lakeside shall impose the fees for
the services of peace officers as may be established by the amendment or
successor statute.  The fees shall be paid into the town treasury and shall be
accounted for and paid over as required by law, but the Town of Lakeside may
keep the funds as are authorized by statute.
   (B)   A Municipal Court Judge of the Town of Lakeside may, upon conviction,
require a defendant to pay the court costs as are authorized by law.  The costs
will be paid into the town treasury and shall be accounted for and paid over as
required by law, but the Town may keep the funds for administrative,
collection, and accounting fees as are allowed by law.
(Ord. 130, passed 3-7-1991)
§ 32.05  TAXATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
   (A)   A tax is hereby authorized on all telecommunications services sold
within the Town of Lakeside, Texas.  For purposes of this section, the sale of
telecommunications services is consummated at the location of the telephone or
other telecommunications device from which the call or other communication
originates.  If the point of origin cannot be determined, the sale is
consummated at the address to which the call or other communication is billed.
   (B)   The rate of tax imposed by this section shall be the same as the rate
imposed by the Town of Lakeside, Texas, for all other local sales and use taxes
as authorized by the legislature of the State of Texas.
   (C)   The Town Secretary shall forward to the Comptroller of the State of
Texas, by United States registered or certified mail, a copy of this section
along with a copy of the minutes of the City Council’s vote and discussion on
this section.
   (D)   This section shall become effective as of 10-1-1987.
   (E)   This section is to be liberally construed to achieve its remedial
purposes.
(Ord. 113, passed 7-2-1987)
§ 32.06  TOWN SALES TAX ON RESIDENTIAL USE OF GAS AND ELECTRICITY.
   The 1% town sales tax on the receipts from the sale, production,
distribution, lease, or rental of, and the use, storage, or other consumption
within the Town of Lakeside, Texas, of gas and electricity for residential use
be continued.
(Ord. 85, passed 12-11-1978)
CHAPTER 33:  PERSONNEL
Section
   
33.01   Texas Municipal Retirement System (TMRS)
   
33.02   Supplemental Benefits Fund
   
33.03   Supplemental Death Benefits Fund
   
33.04   Municipal Retirement System–authorization of restricted prior service
credit
   
33.05   Municipal Retirement System–authorization of updated service credits
   
33.06   Effective date for updated service credits
   
33.07   Municipal Retirement System–participation criteria
   
33.08   Effective date for certain provisions
   
33.09   Municipal Retirement System–service retirement annuity
   
33.10   Authorization of updated service credits–2005
§ 33.01  TEXAS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM (TMRS).
   (A)   The City Council, on behalf of the town, exercises its option and
elects to have the town and all of the employees of all departments now
existing and those hereafter created participate in the Texas Municipal
Retirement System as provided in the TMRS Act (Title 110B, Vernon’s Texas Civil
Statutes), and all of the benefits and obligations of such System are accepted
as to such employees.
   (B)   The Town Administrator is directed to notify the Board of Trustees of
the Texas Municipal Retirement System that the town has elected to participate
and have the employees of the town covered in the System.
   (C)   Each person who becomes an employee of any participating department on
or after the effective date of participation of such department shall become a
member of the Texas Municipal Retirement System as a condition of his or her
employment.
   (D)   In accordance with the provisions of this statute, the deposits to be
made to the Texas Municipal Retirement System on account of current service of
the employees of the several participating departments are fixed at the rate of
5% of the full earnings of each employee of the departments.
   (E)   Each employee who qualifies for such credit shall be allowed “prior
service credit” (as defined in subsection 6(b) of Section VI of the Act) at the
rate of 100% of the “base prior service credit” of such member, calculated in
the manner prescribed in the Act.
   (F)   For each month of current service rendered to the town by each of its
employees who are members of Texas Municipal Retirement System, the town will
contribute to the current service annuity reserve of each such member at the
time of his or her retirement, a sum that is 200% of such member’s accumulated
deposits for such month of employment; and the sum shall be contributed from
the town’s account in the municipality current service accumulation fund.
   (G)   The Town Secretary is directed to remit to the Board of Trustees of
the Texas Municipal Retirement System, at its office in Austin, Texas, the
town’s contributions to the System and the amounts which shall be deducted from
the compensation or payroll of employees, all as required by the Board under
the provisions of the Texas Municipal Retirement System Act, and the official
is authorized and directed to ascertain and certify officially on behalf of the
town the prior service rendered to the municipality by each of the employees of
the participating departments, and the average prior service compensation
received by each, and to make and execute all prior service certifications and
all other reports and certifications which may be required of the town under
the provisions of the Texas Municipal Retirement System Act, or in compliance
with the rules and regulations of the Board of Trustees of the Texas Municipal
Retirement System.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 33.02  SUPPLEMENTAL BENEFITS FUND.
   (A)   The town, by its City Council, elects to have the employees of all
participating departments of the town participate in and be covered by the
Supplemental Benefits Fund of the Texas Municipal Retirement System, as
provided by Chapter 312, Acts Regular Session, 56th Legislature; and all the
benefits and obligations of participation in the Fund are accepted by the town
as to such employees.
   (B)   The Town Administrator is directed to notify the Board of Trustees of
the Texas Municipal Retirement System that the town has elected to participate
and have the employees of the designated departments participate in the
Supplemental Benefits Fund of the System.
   (C)   Each person who becomes an employee of any participating department on
or after the effective date of participation of such department in the Fund
shall as a condition of his or her employment be covered into the Supplemental
Benefits Fund of the System. The town may in the future refuse to add new
departments or new employees to the Fund, but shall never discontinue as to any
members who are covered into the Fund.
   (D)   The Town Secretary is directed to remit monthly to the Board of
Trustees of the Texas Municipal Retirement System at its office in Austin,
Texas, as the town’s contributions to the Supplemental Benefits Fund of the
Texas Municipal Retirement System, such percentage of earnings of the
designated employees of the town as may be faced by the Board of Trustees of
the Texas Municipal Retirement System, provided that the rate of contribution
to the fund shall not exceed .5% of the earnings of the employees of the town
who are covered under the Fund, and such official shall make for the town such
reports as the Board of Trustees of the Texas Municipal Retirement System may
prescribe.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 33.03  SUPPLEMENTAL DEATH BENEFITS FUND.
   The town elects to participate in the Supplemental Death Benefits Fund of
the Texas Municipal Retirement System beginning on the first day of the
calendar month following written notification to the System of the adoption of
the ordinance codified in this section, for the purpose of providing in-service
death benefits in the amounts and on the terms provided for in Section XIX of
the Texas Municipal Retirement System Act (Title 110B, Vernon’s Texas Civil
Statutes, as amended) for each of the town’s employees who are members of the
System, and for the purpose of providing post-retirement death benefits as
provided in said Section XIX for annuitants whose last covered employment was
as an employee of the town.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 33.04  MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM–AUTHORIZATION OF RESTRICTED PRIOR SERVICE
CREDIT.
   (A)   On the terms and conditions set out in Tex. Government Code, §
853.305, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the “TMRS Act”) each member of
the Texas Municipal Retirement System (hereinafter referred to as the “System”)
who is now or who hereafter becomes an employee of this town shall receive
restricted prior service credit for service previously performed as an employee
of any of the entities described in said § 853.305 provided that:
      (1)   The person does not otherwise have credited service in the System
for that service, and
      (2)   The service meets the requirements of said § 853.305.
   (B)   The service credit granted may be used only to satisfy length-of-
service requirements for retirement eligibility, has no monetary value in
computing the annuity payments allowable to the member, and may not be used in
other computations, including computation of updated service credits.
   (C)   A member seeking to establish restricted prior service credit under
this section must take the action required under said Tex. Government Code, §
853.305 while still an employee of this town.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 33.05  MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM–AUTHORIZATION OF UPDATED SERVICE CREDITS.
   (A)   On the terms and conditions set out in Tex. Government Code, §§
853.401 through 853.404, as amended, (hereinafter referred to as the "TMRS
Act"), each member of the Texas Municipal Retirement System (hereinafter
referred to as the "System") who has current service credit or prior service
credit in the System in force and effect on January 1 of the calender year
preceding such allowance, by reason of service in the employment of the town
(hereinafter called the "town"), and on such date had at least 36 months of
credited service with the System, shall be and is hereby allowed "updated
service credit" (as that term is defined in Tex. Government Code § 853.402(d)).
   (B)   The updated service credit hereby allowed and provided for shall be
100% of the "base updated service credit" of the member (calculated as provided
in Tex. Gov’t Code § 853.402(c)). If the town has previously adopted, or if it
hereafter adopts an ordinance authorizing updated service credit for
unforfeited credit for prior service or current service with any other
participating municipality, the calculations and adjustments set forth in Tex.
Government Code § 853.601 shall apply to any such transferred service.
   (C)   Each updated service credit allowed hereunder shall replace any
updated service credit, prior service credit, special prior service credit, or
antecedent service credit previously authorized for part of the same service.
   (D)   The initial allowance of updated service credit hereunder shall be
effective on January 1, 2020, subject to approval by the Board of Trustees of
the System. An allowance shall be made hereunder on January 1 of each
subsequent year until this section ceases to be in effect under Tex. Government
Code § 853.404(e), provided that, as to such subsequent year, the actuary for
the System has made the determination set forth in Tex. Government Code §
853.404(d).
   (E)   In accordance with the provisions of Tex. Government Code, § 853.401
(d), the deposits required to be made to the System by employees of the several
participating departments on account of current service shall be calculated
from and after the effective date of the ordinance on the full amount of such
person’s compensation as an employee of the town.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013; Ord. 362, passed 10-24-2013; Ord. 413, passed 9-
12-2019)
§ 33.06  EFFECTIVE DATE FOR UPDATED SERVICE CREDITS.
   The initial allowance of updated service credit is effective on January 1,
2005, subject to approval by the Board of Trustees of the System. An allowance
of updated service credits and an increase in retirement annuities shall be
made on January 1 of each subsequent year until the ordinance codified in this
section and §
33.05 ceases to be in effect under Tex. Government Code, § 853.404(e), provided
that, as to such subsequent year, the actuary for the System has made the
determination set forth in Tex. Government Code, § 853.404(d).
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 33.07  MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM–PARTICIPATION CRITERIA.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Tex. Government Code, §§  852.105 and 854.202,
as amended, which subtitle shall herein be referred to as the “TMRS Act,” the
Town of Lakeside, Texas, adopts the following provisions affecting
participation of its employees in the Texas Municipal Retirement System (which
retirement system shall herein be referred to as the “System”):
   (A)   An employee of the town who is a member of the System may terminate
employment and remain eligible to retire and receive a service retirement
annuity at any time after that member attains
an applicable age and service requirement, if that member has at least ten
years of credited service performed for one or more municipalities that have
authorized eligibility under Tex. Government Code, § 854.202(c) or are subject
to Tex. Government Code, § 854.102(e).
   (B)   An employee of the town who is a member of the System may retire and
receive a service retirement annuity if that member is at least 60 years old
and has at least ten years of creditable service performed for one or more
municipalities that either have authorized eligibility under this division (B)
or are subject to Tex. Government Code, § 854.102(e).
   (C)   Any employee of this town who is a member and who performed service
for this town prior to September 1, 1987, (for which service that employee did
not receive credit with the System because the employee was not at that time a
member of the System due to his or her age at the date of his or her
employment) is hereby granted service credit with the System for all of such
service performed after the date of his or her latest employment by the town)
that is prior to September 1, 1987, for which the employee has not previously
received credit with the System, pursuant to Tex. Government Code, § 852.105.
   (D)   The rights, credits and benefits hereinabove authorized shall be in
addition to the plan provisions heretofore adopted and in force at the
effective date of the ordinance codified in §§
33.05,
33.06 and
33.07 pursuant to the TMRS Act.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 33.08  EFFECTIVE DATE FOR CERTAIN PROVISIONS.
   This chapter shall become effective on March 21, 2013 provided that it has
previously been determined by the actuary for the System that all obligations
of the town to the municipality accumulation fund, including obligations hereby
undertaken, can be funded by the town within its maximum contribution rate and
within its amortization period.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 33.09  MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM–SERVICE RETIREMENT ANNUITY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Tex. Government Code, § 854.202(g), as
amended, which subtitle shall herein be referred to as the “TMRS Act,” the town
adopts the following provisions affecting participation of its employees in the
Texas Municipal Retirement System (herein referred to as the “System”):
   (A)   Any employee of the town who is a member of the System is eligible to
retire and receive a service retirement annuity if the member has at least 25
years of credited service in the System performed for one or more
municipalities that have adopted a like provision under Tex. Government Code, §
854.202(g).
   (B)   Prior to adopting the ordinance codified in this section, the
governing body of the town has:
      (1)   Prepared an actuarial analysis of member retirement annuities at 20
years of service; and
      (2)   Held a public hearing pursuant to the notice provisions of the
Texas Open Meetings Act, Tex. Government Code, Ch. 551.
   (C)   The rights hereinabove authorized shall be in addition to the plan
provisions heretofore adopted and in force at the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this section pursuant to the TMRS Act.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 33.10  AUTHORIZATION OF UPDATED SERVICE CREDITS–2005.
   (A)   On the terms and conditions set out in Tex. Government Code, §§
853.401 through 853.404, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the “TMRS
Act”), each member of the Texas Municipal Retirement System (hereinafter
referred to as the “System”) who has current service credit or prior service
credit in the System in force and effect on the first day of January of the
calendar year preceding such allowance, by reason of service in the employment
of the town, and on such date had at least 36 months of credited service with
the System, shall be and is hereby allowed “updated service credit” (as that
term is defined in Tex. Government Code, § 853.402(d)).
   (B)   On the terms and conditions set out in Tex. Government Code, §
853.601, any member of the system who is eligible for updated service credits
on the basis of service with this town, who has unforfeited credit for prior
service and/or current service with another participating municipality or
municipalities by reason of previous service, and was a contributing member on
the first day of January of the calendar year preceding such allowance, shall
be credited with updated service credits pursuant to, calculated in accordance
with, and subject to adjustment as set forth in said § 853.601, both as to the
initial grant hereunder and all future grants under this chapter.
   (C)   The updated service credit hereby allowed and provided for shall be
100% of the “base updated service credit” of the members (calculated as
provided in Tex. Government Code, § 853.402(c)).
   (D)   Each updated service credit allowed hereunder shall replace any
updated service credit, prior service credit, special prior service credit, or
antecedent service credit previously authorized for part of the same service.
   (E)   In accordance with the provisions of Tex. Government Code, § 853.401
(d), the deposits required to be made to the System by employees of the several
participating departments on account of current service shall be calculated
from and after the effective date of this chapter on the full amount of such
person’s compensation as an employee of the town.
(Ord. 348, passed 3-21-2013)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   GARBAGE
      
52.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
53.   SEWER ADMINISTRATION
      
54.   STORMWATER
CHAPTER 50:  WATER
Section
Water Conservation and Drought Contingency Plan
   
50.001   Introduction; objectives
   
50.002   Conservation plans
   
50.003   Drought contingency plans in general
   
50.004   Minimum required water conservation plan content
   
50.005   Additional required water conservation plan content
   
50.006   Optional water conservation plan content
   
50.007   Town drought contingency plan
Rates and Charges
   
50.025   Generally
Water System
   
50.040   Contract for water services
   
50.041   Violation of contract; notice; disconnection
   
50.042   Water tap fees
   
50.043   Construction site; installation of meter by town
   
50.044   Construction site; maintenance of meter
   
50.045   Construction site; replacement
   
50.046   Water rationing
   
50.047   Damaging or tampering with system unlawful
   
50.048   Unauthorized turn on of water or damaging lock prohibited
   
50.049   Unauthorized connection or disconnection
   
50.050   Meter testing procedures
   
50.051   Discontinuation of water service
   
50.052   Payment for damage to system
   
50.053   Requirements for reconnection of water service
Connection to Water System
   
50.065   Definitions
   
50.066   Service permit required; application; exception
   
50.067   Permit requirements
   
50.068   Minimum monthly charge
   
50.069   Resale prohibited
Public Water Supply Wells
   
50.080   Purpose
   
50.081   Definitions
   
50.082   Prohibited activities
   
50.083   Right of entry
   
50.084   Required removal
   
50.085   Superseding regulation or statute
Cross-connection Control - General Policy
   
50.100   Purpose; responsibility
   
50.101   Definitions
   
50.102   Requirements
 
   
50.999   Penalty
WATER CONSERVATION AND DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN
§ 50.001  INTRODUCTION; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Water supply is a key issue in the development of Texas. In recent
years, the increasing population and economic development in the region has led
to growing demands for water. Increasingly entities are banding together to
solve the water needs of the region. Identifying long term sources and reducing
water consumption through conservation efforts is paramount.
   (B)   Recognizing the need for efficient use of existing water supplies, the
Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) has developed guidelines and
requirements governing the development of water conservation and drought
contingency plans for public water suppliers. The town has adopted this water
conservation and drought contingency plan pursuant to TCEQ guidelines and
requirements.
   (C)   The objectives of the water conservation plan are:
      (1)   To reduce water consumption.
      (2)   To reduce the loss and waste of water.
      (3)   To identify the level of water reuse.
      (4)   To improve efficiency in the use of water.
      (5)   To extend the life of current water supplies by reducing the rate
of growth in demand.
   (D)   The objectives of the drought contingency plan are:
      (1)   To conserve the available water supply in times of drought and
emergency.
      (2)   To maintain supplies for domestic water use, sanitation, and fire
protection.
      (3)   To protect and preserve public health, welfare, and safety.
      (4)   To minimize the adverse impacts of water supply shortages.
      (5)   To minimize the adverse impacts of emergency water supply
conditions.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-13-2013)
§ 50.002  CONSERVATION PLANS.
   (A)   The TCEQ rules governing development of water conservation plans for
public water suppliers are contained in Title 30, Part 1, Chapter 288,
Subchapter A, Rule 288.2 of the Texas Administrative Code. For the purpose of
these rules, a WATER CONSERVATION PLAN is defined as:
      “A strategy or combination of strategies for reducing the volume of water
withdrawn from a water supply source, for reducing the loss or waste of water,
for maintaining or improving the efficiency in the use of water, for increasing
the recycling and reuse of water, and for preventing the pollution of water. A
water conservation plan may be a separate document identified as such or may be
contained within another water management document(s).”
   (B)   According to TCEQ rules, water conservation plans for public water
suppliers must have a certain minimum content (§
50.004), and may have additional optional content (§
50.006).
(Ord. 352, passed 6-13-2013)
§ 50.003  DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLANS IN GENERAL.
   (A)   The TCEQ rules governing development of drought contingency plans for
public water suppliers are contained in Title 30, Part 1, Chapter 288,
Subchapter B, Rule 288.20 of the Texas Administrative Code. For the purpose of
these rules, a DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN is defined as:
      “A strategy or combination of strategies for temporary supply and demand
management responses to temporary and potentially recurring water supply
shortages and other water supply emergencies. A drought contingency plan may be
a separate document identified as such or may be contained within another water
management document(s).”
   (B)   The drought contingency plan for the town is contained in §
50.007 of this water conservation and drought contingency plan.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-13-2013)
§ 50.004  MINIMUM REQUIRED WATER CONSERVATION PLAN CONTENT.
   (A)   The minimum requirements in the Texas Administrative Code for water
conservation plans for public drinking water suppliers covered in this report
are as follows:
      (1)   Section 288.2(a)(l)(A) - Utility Profile - division (B) below.
      (2)   Section 288.2(a)(l)(B) - Specification of Goals Before May 1, 2005
- division (C) below.
      (3)   Section 288.2(a)(l)(C) - Specification of Goals After May 1, 2005 -
division (C) below.
      (4)   Section 288.2(a)(l)(D) - Accurate Metering - divisions (D) and (E)
below.
      (5)   Section 288.2(a)(l)(E) - Universal Metering - division (E) below.
      (6)   Section 288.2(a)(l)(F) - Determination and of Unaccounted Water -
division (F) below.
      (7)   Section 288.2(a)(l)(G) - Public Education and Information Program -
division (G) below.
      (8)   Section 288.2(a)(l)(H) -Nonpromotional Water Rate Structure -
division (H) below.
      (9)   Section 288.2(a)(l)(J) - Means of Implementation and Enforcement -
division (I) below.
      (10)   Section 288.2(a)(1)(K) - Coordination with Regional Water Planning
Group - division (J) below.
   (B)   Utility profile.
      (1)   The town has a current population of 1,350 with 860 connections
both inside and outside the incorporated town limits. The water is supplied by
15 water wells owned by the Town of Lakeside. Table 1.1 summarizes the town’s
15 wells. For emergency purposes, the town has a connection with the City of
Azle municipal system.
      (2)   Table 1.2 summarizes key facts from the water utility profile.
TABLE 1.1 TOWN’S WELLS
Well # Depth GPM Aquifer Year Drilled
TABLE 1.1 TOWN’S WELLS
Well # Depth   GPM Aquifer        Year Drilled
1      120 ft. 109 Paluxy         1975
2      826 ft. 34  Twin Mountains 1975
3      180 ft. 47  Paluxy         1973
4      80 ft.  106 Paluxy         1972
5      180 ft. 10  Paluxy         1975
6      230 ft. 18  Paluxy         1978
7      200 ft. 10  Paluxy         1978
8      205 ft. 11  Paluxy         1980
9      205 ft. 33  Paluxy         1982
10     262 ft. 29  Paluxy         1975
11     760 ft. 74  Trinity        1995
12     760 ft. 74  Trinity        1995
13     750 ft. 32  Trinity        1997
14     618 ft. 76  Trinity        1997
15     126 ft. 49  Paluxy         1997
 
   (C)   Specification of water conservation goals.
      (1)   Table 1.2 shows historical and projected per capita municipal water
use for the town. Water use is shown in units of gallons per capita per day
(gpcd). Municipal water use is total use. Per capita municipal water use is
municipal water use divided by population. The per capita municipal water use
does not include industrial use.
      (2)   Projected per capita municipal uses were obtained from the Texas
Water Development Board (TWDB) and interpolated to match the appropriate years
for the five-year and ten-year goals. The TWDB projections are applicable for a
dry year, in which outdoor water use would be high. Per capita municipal water
use in a year with normal or high precipitation during the summer should be
less than projected here.
TABLE 1.2 SUMMARY OF WATER UTILITY PROFILE FOR THE TOWN OF LAKESIDE
TABLE 1.2 SUMMARY OF WATER UTILITY PROFILE FOR THE TOWN OF LAKESIDE
Water service area = 2.2 square miles
Population:
   Current population = 1,350
   2000 population = 1,150
Connections:
   Number of connections = 817
Information on Water Use for the Last Year:
Year Population* Estimated per Town Water Use  Unaccounted Water Peak Day to
                 Capita        (MG)            in (MG)           Average Day
2012 2,050       150 pcd       112.79          1.69              .582 - .393
* includes outside town limit customers
Water supply sources(s) = 15 wells         City of Azle for emergencies
Well capacity = 690 GPM = 357,696,000 gallons annually
Storage capacity = 832,000
Elevated storage = 100,000 gallons
Ground storage = 732,000 gallons
 
      (3)   The town’s water conservation goals include the following:
         (a)   Maintain the town’s meter replacement program (division (E)).
         (b)   Keep the level of unaccounted water in the system less than 10%
(division (F)).
         (c)   Raise public awareness of water conservation and encourage
responsible public behavior through a public education and information program,
as discussed in division (G).
   (D)   Accurate metering of raw water supplies and treated water deliveries.
The town meters all wells and meters all treated water deliveries to the
distribution system from the pump stations. Each meter has an accuracy of plus
or minus 5%. The meters are calibrated on an annual basis by a qualified meter
tech to maintain the required accuracy and are repaired and/or replaced as
needed.
   (E)   Metering of customer and public uses and meter testing, repair, and
replacement.
      (1)   Water usage for all customers of the town, including public and
governmental users, is metered.
      (2)   As part of the town’s ongoing conservation efforts we will continue
our meter replacement program by replacing every meter on a ten-year cycle,
based on the replacement of oldest meters in the system first. In addition,
meters registering any unusual or questionable readings will be tested and
replaced and needed.
   (F)   Determination and control of unaccounted water.
      (1)   Unaccounted water is the difference between the aggregate of raw
water drawn from our wells and water purchased from the City of Azle and
metered deliveries to customers. Unaccounted water can include several
categories;
         (a)   Line flushing.
         (b)   Fire fighting.
         (c)   Inaccuracies in customer meters (customer meters tend to run
more slowly as they age and under-report actual use).
         (d)   Losses due to water main breaks and leaks in the water
distribution system.
         (e)   Losses due to illegal connections (theft).
         (f)   Other.
      (2)   The town will conduct water audit every five years. It is the
town’s plan to base this audit on real losses to include leakage and overflows.
Identifying and preventing real losses decreases a utility’s costs and
decreases water usage. The town will target real losses under this water
conservation strategy.
   (G)   Continuing public education and information campaign. The continuing
public education and information campaign on water conservation for the town
includes the following elements:
      (1)   Promote the town’s water conservation measures (presented in this
section and §§ 50.005 and 50.006).
      (2)   Include inserts on water conservation with water bills at least
twice per year. Inserts will include material developed by town staff and
material obtained from the TWDB, the TCEQ, the AWWA and other sources.
      (3)   Encourage local media coverage of water conservation issues and the
importance of water conservation.
      (4)   Notify local organizations, schools, and civic groups that town
staff is available to make presentations on the importance of water
conservation and ways to save water.
      (5)   Make the Texas Smartscape CD, water conservation brochures, and
other water conservation materials available to the public.
      (6)   Make information on water conservation available online at
www.lakesidetexas.us and  include links to the Texas Smartscape website and to
information on water conservation on the TWDB and TCEQ websites.
   (H)   Nonpromotional water rate structure. With the intent of encouraging
water conservation and discouraging waste and excessive use of water, the town
has adopted an increasing block rate water structure where the unit price of
water increases with increasing water use. Current water rates are shown in
Table 1.3 and the drought stage water rates in Table 1.4 and Table 1.5.
TABLE 1.3
WATER RATE SCHEDULE
Billing where only one user
or building is tied to the  Inside city per 100 cft. Outside city per 100 cft.
same meter
TABLE 1.3
WATER RATE SCHEDULE
Billing where only one user
or building is tied to the  Inside city per 100 cft. Outside city per 100 cft.
same meter
276—1,337 cubic feet      $2.87                    $3.15
1,338—2,674 cubic feet    $3.74                    $4.00
2,675—4,010 cubic feet    $4.60                    $4.86
4,011—or more cubic feet  $5.47                    $5.73
Minimum/base rate 3/4-inch  $53.73                   $62.41
meter
Minimum/base rate 1-inch    $96.00                   $112.34
meter
Minimum/base rate 2-inch    $292.85                  $342.62
meter
Billing where more than one user is tied to the same meter is the 3/4 base
rate times X, where X is the number of users plus volume charges. For meters
larger than 3/4 meter, it is either the 3/4 base rate times X, where X is the
number of users plus volume charges, or the actual meter size base rate plus
volume charges, whichever is greater.
 
TABLE 1.4
STAGE 2
WATER RATE SCHEDULE
Billing where only one user
or building is tied to the  Inside city per 100 cft. Outside city per 100 cft.
same meter
TABLE 1.4
STAGE 2
WATER RATE SCHEDULE
Billing where only one user
or building is tied to the  Inside city per 100 cft. Outside city per 100 cft.
same meter
276—1,337 cubic feet      $2.87                    $3.15
1,338—2,674 cubic feet    $4.97                    $5.32
2,675—4,010 cubic feet    $6.11                    $6.46
> 4,011                     $7.27                    $7.62
Minimum/base rate 3/4-inch  $53.73                   $62.41
meter
Minimum/base rate 1-inch    $96.00                   $112.34
meter
Minimum/base rate 2-inch    $292.85                  $342.62
meter
Billing where more than one user is tied to the same meter is the 3/4 base
rate times X, where X is the number of users plus volume charges. For meters
larger than 3/4 meter, it is either the 3/4 base rate times X, where X is the
number of users plus volume charges, or the actual meter size base rate plus
volume charges, whichever is greater.
 
TABLE 1-5
STAGE 3
WATER RATE SCHEDULE
Billing where only one user
or building is tied to the  Inside city per 100 cft. Outside city per 100 cft.
same meter
TABLE 1-5
STAGE 3
WATER RATE SCHEDULE
Billing where only one user
or building is tied to the  Inside city per 100 cft. Outside city per 100 cft.
same meter
276—1,337 cubic feet      $2.87                    $3.15
1,338—2,674 cubic feet    $6.61                    $7.07
2,675—4,010 cubic feet    $8.12                    $8.59
4,011—5,347 cubic feet    $9.66                    $10.13
> 5,347                     $11.39                   $11.95
Minimum/base rate 3/4-inch  $53.73                   $62.41
meter
Minimum/base rate 1-inch    $96.00                   $112.34
meter
Minimum/base rate 2-inch    $292.85                  $342.62
meter
Billing where more than one user is tied to the same meter is the 3/4 base
rate times X, where X is the number of users plus volume charges. For meters
larger than 3/4 meter, it is either the 3/4 base rate times X, where X is the
number of users plus volume charges, or the actual meter size base rate plus
volume charges, whichever is greater.
 
(Ord. 352, passed 6-13-2013; Ord. 372, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 50.005  ADDITIONAL REQUIRED WATER CONSERVATION PLAN CONTENT.
   (A)   The Texas Administrative Code also includes additional requirements
for water conservation plans for public drinking water suppliers that serve a
population of 5,000 people or more and/or a projected population of 5,000
people or more within the next ten years:
      (1)   Section 288.2(a)(2)(A) - Leak Detection, Repair, and Water Loss
Accounting - §
50.004(F) and division (B) below.
      (2)   Section 288.2(a)(2)(B) - Record Management System - division (C)
below.
   (B)   Leak detection and repair; pressure control.
      (1)   Measures to control unaccounted water are part of the routine
operations of the town. Meter readers watch for and report signs of illegal
connections so they can be addressed quickly. Crews and personnel look for and
report evidence of leaks in the water distribution system. Maintenance crews
respond quickly to repair leaks reported by the public and town personnel.
      (2)   To further reduce water losses, the town will maintain a proactive
water loss program. As part of this program, the town responds quickly to
reports of leaks within 24 hours.
   (C)   Record management system. As required by TAC Title 30, Part 1, Chapter
288, Subchapter A, Rule 288.2(a)(2)(B), the record management system for the
town records water pumped, water delivered, and water sold; estimates water
losses; and allows for the separation of water sales and uses into residential,
commercial, public/institutional, and industrial categories. This information
will be included in an annual conservation report, as required.
   (D)   Requirement for water conservation plans by wholesale customers. At
this time, the town is not a wholesale water provider.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-13-2013)
§ 50.006  OPTIONAL WATER CONSERVATION PLAN CONTENT.
   (A)   TCEQ rules also list optional (not required) conservation strategies,
which may be adopted by suppliers to achieve the stated goals of the plan. The
following optional strategies are listed in the rules and included in this
plan:
      (1)   Section 288.2(a)(3)(A) - Conservation Oriented Water Rates - §
50.004(H).
      (2)   Section 288.2(a)(3)(B) - Ordinances, Plumbing Codes or Rules on
Water-Conserving Fixtures - division (B) below.
      (3)   Section 288.2(a)(3)(D) - Reuse and Recycling of Wastewater -
division (C) below.
      (4)   Section 288.2(a)(3)(F) - Landscape Water Management Ordinance -
Water Waste Prohibition - division (D) below.
   (B)   Ordinances, plumbing codes, or rules on water-conserving fixtures. The
state has required water-conserving fixtures in new construction and
renovations since 1992. The state standards call for flows of no more than 2.5
gallons per minute (gpm) for faucets, 3.0 gpm for showerheads, and 1.6 gallons
per flush for toilets. Similar standards are also required under federal law.
These state and federal standards assure that all new construction and
renovations in the town will use water-conserving fixtures.
   (C)   Reuse and recycling of wastewater. The town operates the Lakeside
Wastewater Treatment Plant, discharges approximately 2,000 acre-foot/year of
reclaimed water to eight of cultivated fields. The fields are sprigged with
alfalfa hay.
   (D)   Water waste prohibition. As part of the development of this water
conservation plan, that includes the following elements:
      (1)   A recommendation that outdoor watering with automatic sprinklers
from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. from May 1 through October 31 should, is
discouraged. (Watering with hand-held hoses, soaker hoses, or dispensers is
allowed.)
      (2)   Requirement that all new irrigation systems be in compliance with
state design and installation regulations (Texas Administrative Code Title 30,
Part 1, Chapter 344).
      (3)   Prohibition of designs and installations that spray directly onto
impervious surfaces such as sidewalks and roads or onto other non-irrigated
areas.
      (4)   Prohibition of use of poorly maintained sprinkler systems that
waste water.
      (5)   Prohibition of outdoor watering during any form of precipitation.
      (6)   Enforcement of this division (D) by a system of warnings followed
by fines for continued or repeat violations.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-13-2013)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.007  TOWN DROUGHT CONTINGENCY PLAN.
   (A)   Introduction. The purpose of this drought contingency plan is as
follows:
      (1)   To conserve the available water supply in times of drought and
emergency.
      (2)   To maintain supplies for domestic water use, sanitation, and fire
protection.
      (3)   To protect and preserve public health, welfare, and safety.
      (4)   To minimize the adverse impacts of water supply shortages.
      (5)   To minimize the adverse impacts of emergency water supply
conditions.
   (B)   State requirements for drought contingency plans.
      (1)   This drought contingency plan is consistent with Texas Commission
on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) guidelines and requirements for the development
of drought contingency plans by public drinking water suppliers, contained in
Title 30, Part 1, Chapter 288, Subchapter B, Rule 288.20 of the Texas
Administrative Code.
      (2)   TCEQ’s minimum requirements for drought contingency plans are
addressed in the following subsections of this report:
         (a)   Section 288.20(a)(1)(A) - Provisions to Inform the Public and
Provide Opportunity for Public Input - division (C) below.
         (b)   Section 288.20(a)(1)(B) - Provisions for Continuing Public
Education and Information - division (D) below.
         (c)   Section 288.20(a)(1)(C) - Coordination with the Regional Water
Planning Group - division (K) below.
         (d)   Section 288.20(a)(1)(D) - Criteria for Initiation and
Termination of Drought Stages - division (F) below.
         (e)   Section 288.20(a)(1)(E) - Drought and Emergency Response Stages
- division (F) below.
         (f)   Section 288.20(a)(1)(F) - Specific, Quantified Targets for Water
Use Reductions - division (F) below.
         (g)   Section 288.20(a)(1)(G) - Water Supply and Demand Management
Measures for Each Stage - division (F) below.
         (h)   Section 288.20(a)(l )(H) - Procedures for Initiation and
Termination of Drought Stages - division (E) below.
         (i)   Section 288.20(a)(l)(I) - Procedures for Granting Variances -
division (I) below.
         (j)   Section 288.20(a)(l)(J) - Procedures for Enforcement of
Mandatory Restrictions - division (J) below.
         (k)   Section 288.20(a)(3) - Consultation with Wholesale Supplier -
not applicable.
         (l)   Section 288.20(b) -Notification of Implementation of Mandatory
Measures - division (E) below.
         (m)   Section 288.20(c) - Review and Update of Plan - division (L)
below.
   (C)   Provisions to inform the public and opportunity for public input. The
town provided opportunity for public input in the development of this drought
contingency plan by the following means:
      (1)   Providing written notice of the proposed plan and the opportunity
to comment on the plan by newspaper, posted notice, and notice on the town’s
website, www.lakesidetexas.us on town marquee and in town newsletter.
      (2)   Making the draft plan available on town’s website,
www.lakesidetexas.us.
      (3)   Providing the draft plan to anyone requesting a copy.
      (4)   Hold a public meeting at the town hall at the time of adoption.
   (D)   Provisions for continuing public education and information.
      (1)   The town will inform and educate the public about its drought
contingency plan by the following means:
         (a)   Preparing a bulletin describing the plan and making it available
at town hall and other appropriate locations.
         (b)   Making the plan to the public available through the town website
at www. lakesidetexas.us.
         (c)   Including information about the drought contingency plan on the
town website, www.lakesidetexas.us.
         (d)   Notifying local organizations, schools, and civic groups that
town staff members are available to make presentations on the drought
contingency plan (usually in conjunction with presentations on water
conservation programs).
      (2)   At any time that the drought contingency plan is activated or the
drought stage changes, the town will notify local media of the issues, the
drought response stage, and the specific actions required of the public. The
information will also be publicized on the town website, www.lakesidetexas.us
and placed on the town’s marquee. Billing inserts will also be used as
appropriate.
   (E)   Initiation of drought response stages.
      (1)   The Mayor or his or her official designee may order the
implementation of a drought response stage or water emergency when one or more
of the trigger conditions for that stage is met. The following actions will be
taken when a drought stage is initiated:
         (a)   The public will be notified through local media.
         (b)   Wholesale customers (none at present) will be notified by
telephone with a follow-up letter or fax.
         (c)   If any mandatory provisions of the drought contingency plan are
activated, the town will notify the executive director of the TCEQ within five
business days.
      (2)   For other trigger conditions, the Mayor or his or her designee may
decide not to order the implementation of a drought response stage or water
emergency even though one or more of the trigger criteria for the stage are
met. Factors that could influence such a decision include, but are not limited
to, the time of the year, weather conditions, the anticipation of replenished
water supplies, or the anticipation that additional facilities will become
available to meet needs.
   (F)   Termination of drought response stages.
      (1)   The Mayor or official designee may order the termination of a
drought response stage or water emergency when the conditions for termination
are met or at his or her discretion. The following actions will be taken when a
drought stage is terminated:
         (a)   The public will be notified through local media.
         (b)   When any mandatory provisions of the drought contingency plan
that have been activated are terminated, the town will notify the executive
director of the TCEQ within five business days.
      (2)   The Mayor or his or her designee may decide not to order the
termination of a drought response stage or water emergency even though the
conditions for termination of the stage are met. Factors that could influence
such a decision include, but are not limited to, the time of the year, weather
conditions, or the anticipation of potential changed conditions that warrant
the continuation of the drought stage.
   (G)   Drought and emergency response stages. The triggering criteria
described below are based on a statistical analysis of the vulnerability of the
water source under drought of record conditions as developed by the water
provider, Tarrant Regional Water District (TRWD).
      (1)   Stage l, Mild.
         (a)   Triggering and termination conditions for Stage 1, Mild.
            1.   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be requested to
conserve water and adhere to the prescribed restrictions on certain water uses
from May 1 until October 1 of each year.
            2.   Requirements for termination. Stage 1 of the plan shall remain
in effect throughout the summer months.
         (b)   Goal for use reductions and actions available under Stage 1,
Mild. The goal for the Stage 1 water use restriction is a 2% reduction in
system demand compared to system demand prior to implementation of Stage 1.
         (c)   Stage 1, Mild, water shortage conditions.
            1.   Water customers are required to limit the irrigation of
landscaped areas and lawn watering to Tuesday through Sunday. Customers with a
street address ending in 0 thru 3 can water on Tuesdays and Fridays. Customers
with street addresses ending with 4 thru 6 can water on Wednesdays and
Saturdays and customers whose street address ends in 7 thru 9 can water on
Thursdays and Sundays. On your provided day, lawn watering and irrigation of
landscapes only between the hours of 6:00 pm to 10:00 a.m. designated watering
days. However, irrigation of landscaped areas is permitted at any time if it is
by means of a hand-held hose, a faucet filled bucket or watering can of five
gallons or less, or drip irrigation system.
            2.   All operations of the town shall adhere to water use
restrictions prescribed for Stage 2 of the plan.
         (d)   Water customers are requested to practice water conservation and
to minimize or discontinue water use for nonessential purposes.
         (e)   The goal for the Stage 1 water use restrictions is a 2%
reduction in system demand compared to system demand prior to implementation of
Stage 1.
      (2)   Stage 2, Moderate.
         (a)   Triggering conditions for Stage 2, Moderate.
            1.   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain nonessential water
uses provided in this plan when conditions require the town to purchase water
from the City of Azle for emergency water for four consecutive days or when
demand exceeds 400,000 gallons for four consecutive days.
            2.   Requirements for termination. Stage 2 will remain in effect
for 30 days when instituted or may be rescinded by the Mayor when all of the
conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for a period of ten
consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 2, Stage 1 becomes operative.
         (b)   Goal for use reduction and actions available under Stage 2,
Moderate. The goal for the Stage 2 water use restriction is a 4% reduction in
system demand compared to system demand prior to implementation of Stage 1.
         (c)   Stage 2, Moderate, water shortage conditions. Under threat of
penalty for violation, the following water use restrictions shall apply to all
persons:
            1.   Water customers are required to limit the irrigation of
landscaped areas and lawn watering to Tuesday through Sunday. Customers with a
street address ending in 0 thru 3 can water on Tuesdays and Fridays. Customers
with street addresses ending with 4 thru 6 can water on Wednesdays and
Saturdays and customers whose street address ends in 7 thru 9 can water on
Thursdays and Sundays. On your provided day, lawn watering and irrigation of
landscapes only between the hours of 8:00 pm to 10:00 a.m. designated watering
days. However, irrigation of landscaped areas is permitted at any time if it is
by meaus of a hand-held hose, a faucet filled bucket or watering can of five
gallons or less, or drip irrigation system.
            2.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except on designated watering
days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m.
and 12:00 midnight. Such washing, when allowed, shall be done with a hand-held
bucket or a hand-held hose equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle for quick
rinses. Vehicle washing may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station. Further, such washing may be
exempted from these regulations if the health, safety, and welfare of the
public is contingent upon frequent vehicle cleansing, such as garbage trucks
and vehicles used to transport food and perishables.
            3.   Use of water to fill, refill, or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools, wading pools, or jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited except on
designated watering days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and
between 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight.
            4.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
            5.   Use of water from hydrants shall be limited to fire fighting,
related activities, or other activities necessary to maintain public health,
safety, and welfare, except that use of water from designated fire hydrants for
construction purposes may be allowed under special permit from the town.
            6.   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to its
patrons except when requested. The following uses of water are defined as
nonessential and are prohibited:
               A.   Wash down of any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking
lots, tennis courts, or other hard-surfaced areas;
               B.   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for
purposes other than immediate fire protection;
               C.   Use of water for dust control;
               D.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate
in any gutter or street; and
               E.   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a
reasonable period after having been given notice directing the repair of such
leak(s).
      (3)   Stage 3, Severe.
         (a)   Triggering conditions for Stage 3, Severe.
            1.   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain nonessential water
uses for Stage 3 of this plan when daily demand exceeds 500,000 gallons for a
period of four days.
            2.   Requirements for termination. Stage 3 will remain in effect
for 30 days when instituted or may be rescinded by the Mayor when all of the
conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for a period of ten
consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 3, Stage 2 becomes operative.
         (b)   Goal for use reduction and actions available under Stage 3,
Severe. The goal for the Stage 3 water use restriction is a 6% reduction in
system demand compared to system demand prior to implementation of Stage 1.
         (c)   Stage 3, Severe, water shortage conditions. All requirements of
Stage 2 shall remain in effect during Stage 3 except:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to designated
watering days between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:
00 p.m. and 12:00 midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held
buckets, drip irrigation, or permanently installed automatic sprinkler system
only. The use of hose-end sprinklers is prohibited at all times.
            2.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is prohibited. Vehicle washing may be done
at any time on the immediate premises of a commercial car wash or commercial
service station. Further, such washing may be exempted from these regulations
if the health, safety, and welfare of the public is contingent upon frequent
vehicle cleansing, such as garbage trucks and vehicles used to transport food
and perishables.
            3.   The use of water for construction purposes from designated
fire hydrants under special permit is to be discontinued.
      (4)   Stage 4, Critical.
         (a)   Triggering conditions for Stage 4, Critical.
            1.   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions on certain nonessential water
uses for Stage 4 of this plan when conditions reach effective emergency demand
or when daily demand exceeds 500,000 gallons for ten consecutive days.
            2.   Requirements for termination. Stage 4 will remain in effect
for 30 days when instituted or may be rescinded when all of the conditions
listed as triggering events have ceased to exist and the conditions which
triggered the activation have ceased. Upon termination of Stage 4, Stage 3
becomes operative.
         (b)   Goal for use reduction and actions Available Under Stage 4,
Critical. The goal for the Stage 4 water use restriction is a 10% reduction in
system demand compared to system demand prior to implementation of Stage 1.
         (c)   Stage 4, Critical, water shortage conditions. All requirements
of Stages 2 and 3 shall remain in effect during Stage 4 except:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to designated
watering days between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00
p.m. and 12:00 midnight and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held
buckets, or drip irrigation only. The use of hose-end sprinklers or permanently
installed automatic sprinkler systems are prohibited at all times.
            2.   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is prohibited.
            3.   The filling, refilling, or adding of water to swimming pools,
wading pools, and jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited.
            4.   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
            5.   No applications for new, additional, expanded, or increased-
in-size water service connections, meters, service lines, pipeline extensions,
mains, or water service facilities of any kind shall be allowed or approved.
      (5)   Stage 5, Emergency.
         (a)   Triggering conditions for Stage 5, Emergency.
            1.   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to
comply with the requirements and restrictions for Stage 5 of this plan when the
Mayor or his or her designee determines that a water supply emergency exists
based on:
               A.   Major water line breaks, or pump or system failures occur,
which cause unprecedented loss of capability to provide water service;
               B.   Natural or mairmade contamination of the water supply; or
               C.   When conditions specified by the wholesale water provider
in their effective emergency demand management plan occur.
            2.   Requirements for termination. Stage 5 of the plan may be
rescinded when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased or
when notification from the wholesale water provider has been received advising
that the conditions which triggered the activation have ceased. Upon
termination of Stage 5, Stage 4 becomes operative.
         (b)   Goal for use reduction and actions available under Stage 5,
Emergency. The goal for the Stage 5 water use restriction is a 20% reduction in
system demand compared to system demand prior to implementation of Stage 1.
         (c)   Stage 5, Emergency, water shortage conditions. All requirements
of Stages 2, 3, and 4 shall remain in effect during Stage 5 except:
            1.   Irrigation of landscaped areas is absolutely prohibited.
   (H)   Water rationing. In the event that water shortage conditions threaten
public health, safety, and welfare, the Mayor is hereby authorized to ration
water according to the following plan:
      (1)   Single-family residential customers.
         (a)   The allocation to residential water customers residing in a
single-family dwelling shall be as follows:
 
PERSONS PER HOUSEHOLD GALLONS PER MONTH
1 or 2                6,000
3 or 4                7,000
5 or 6                8,000
7 or 8                9,000
 
         (b)   HOUSEHOLD means the residential premises served by the
customer’s meter. PERSONS PER HOUSEHOLD includes only those persons currently
physically residing at the premises and expected to reside there for the entire
billing period. It shall be assumed that a particular customer’s household is
comprised of two persons unless the customer notifies the town of a greater
number of persons per household on a form prescribed by the Mayor. The Mayor
shall give his or her best effort to see that such forms are mailed, otherwise
provided, or made available to every residential customer. If, however, a
customer does not receive such a form, it shall be the customer’s
responsibility to go to the town offices to complete and sign the form claiming
more than two persons per household. New customers may claim more persons per
household at the time of applying for water service on the form prescribed by
the Mayor. When the number of persons per household increases so as to place
the customer in a different allocation category, the customer may notify the
town on such form and the change will be implemented in the next practicable
billing period. If the number of persons in a household is reduced, the
customer shall notify the town in writing within two days. In prescribing the
method for claiming more than two persons per household, the Mayor shall adopt
methods to ensure the accuracy of the claim. Any person who knowingly,
recklessly, or with criminal negligence falsely reports the number of persons
in a household or fails to timely notify the town of a reduction in the number
of person in a household shall be fined not less than $200. Residential water
customers shall pay one and one-half times the base rate for water used over
the allocation limits.
      (2)   Master-metered multi-family residential customers. The allocation
to a customer billed from a master meter which jointly measures water to
multiple permanent residential dwelling units (e.g., apartments, mobile homes)
shall be allocated 6,000 gallons per month for each dwelling unit. It shall be
assumed that such a customer’s meter serves two dwelling units unless the
customer notifies the town of a greater number on a form prescribed by the
Mayor. The Mayor shall give his or her best effort to see that such forms are
mailed, otherwise provided, or made available to every such customer. If,
however, a customer does not receive such a form, it shall be the customer’s
responsibility to go to the town offices to complete and sign the form claiming
more than two dwellings. A dwelling unit may be claimed under this provision
whether it is occupied or not. New customers may claim more dwelling units at
the time of applying for water service on the form prescribed by the Mayor. If
the number of dwelling units served by a master meter is reduced, the customer
shall notify the town in writing within two days. In prescribing the method for
claiming more than two dwelling units, the Mayor shall adopt methods to ensure
the accuracy of the claim. Any person who knowingly, recklessly, or with
criminal negligence falsely reports the number of dwelling units served by a
master meter or fails to timely notify the town of a reduction in the number of
persons in a household shall be fined not less than $200. Customers billed from
a master meter under this provision shall pay one and one-half times the base
rate for water used over the allocation limits.
      (3)   Commercial customers.
         (a)   A monthly water usage allocation shall be established by the
Mayor, or his or her designee, for each nonresidential commercial customer
other than an industrial customer who uses water for processing purposes. The
nonresidential customer’s allocation shall be approximately 75% percent of the
customer’s usage for corresponding month’s billing period for the previous 12
months. If the customer’s billing history is shorter than 12 months, the
monthly average for the period for which there is a record shall be used for
any monthly period for which no history exists. The Mayor shall give his or her
best effort to see that notice of each nonresidential customer’s allocation is
mailed to such customer. If, however, a customer does not receive such notice,
it shall be the customer’s responsibility to contact the town to determine the
allocation. Upon request of the customer or at the initiative of the Mayor, the
allocation may be reduced or increased if:
            1.   The designated period does not accurately reflect the
customer’s normal water usage;
            2.   One nonresidential customer agrees to transfer part of its
allocation to another nonresidential customer; or
            3.   Other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions.
         (b)   A customer may appeal an allocation established hereunder to the
City Council.
         (c)   Nonresidential commercial customers shall pay one and one-half
times the base rate for water used over the allocation limits.
      (4)   Industrial customers.
         (a)   A monthly water usage allocation shall be established by the
Mayor, or his or her designee, for each industrial customer, which uses water
for processing purposes. The industrial customer’s allocation shall be
approximately 90% of the customer’s water usage baseline. Ninety days after the
initial imposition of the allocation for industrial customers, the industrial
customer’s allocation shall be further reduced to 85% of the customer’s water
usage baseline. The industrial customer’s water usage baseline will be computed
on the average water usage for the 12-month period ending prior to the date of
implementation of Stage 2 of the plan. If the industrial water customer’s
billing history is shorter than 12 months, the monthly average for the period
for which there is a record shall be used for any monthly period for which no
billing history exists. The Mayor shall give his or her best effort to see that
notice of each industrial customer’s allocation is mailed to such customer. If,
however, a customer does not receive such notice, it shall be the customer’s
responsibility to contact the town to determine the allocation, and the
allocation shall be fully effective notwithstanding the lack of receipt of
written notice. Upon request of the customer or at the initiative of the Mayor,
the allocation may be reduced or increased:
            1.   If the designated period does not accurately reflect the
customer’s normal water usage because the customer had shutdown a major
processing unit for repair or overhaul during the period;
            2.   If the customer has added or is in the process of adding
significant additional processing capacity;
            3.   If the customer has shutdown or significantly reduced the
production of a major processing unit;
            4.   If the customer has previously implemented significant
permanent water conservation measures such that the ability to further reduce
usage is limited;
            5.   If the customer agrees to transfer part of its allocation to
another industrial customer; or
            6.   If other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions.
         (b)   A customer may appeal an allocation established hereunder to the
City Council.
         (c)   Industrial customers shall pay one and one-half times the base
rate for water used over the allocation limits.
   (I)   Procedure for granting variances to the plan.
      (1)   The Mayor, or his or her designee, may, in writing, grant temporary
variance for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this plan if it is
determined that failure to grant such variance would cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting the health, sanitation, or fire protection for
the public or the person requesting such variance and if one or more of the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   Compliance with this plan cannot be technically accomplished
during the duration of the water supply shortage or other condition for which
the plan is in effect.
         (b)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the
same level of reduction in water use.
      (2)   Persons requesting an exemption from the provisions of this
subchapter shall file a petition for variance with the town within five days
after the plan or a particular drought response stage has been invoked. All
petitions for variances shall be reviewed by the Mayor, or his or her designee,
and shall include the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the petitioner(s).
         (b)   Purpose of water use.
         (c)   Specific provision(s) of the plan from which the petitioner is
requesting relief.
         (d)   Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of the plan
adversely affects the petitioner or what damage or harm will occur to the
petitioner or others if petitioner complies with this subchapter.
         (e)   Description of the relief requested.
         (f)   Period of time for which the variance is sought.
         (g)   Alternative water use restrictions or other measures the
petitioner is taking or proposes to take to meet the intent of this plan and
the compliance date.
         (h)   Other pertinent information.
      (3)   Variances granted by the town shall be subject to the following
conditions, unless waived or modified by the Mayor or his or her designee:
         (a)   Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.
         (b)   Variances granted shall expire when the plan is no longer in
effect, unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
      (4)   No variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation
of this plan occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
   (J)   Procedure for enforcement of mandatory restrictions.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water
from the town for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural,
governmental, or any other purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of
this plan, or in an amount in excess of that permitted by the drought response
stage in effect at the time pursuant to action taken by the Mayor, or his or
her designee, in accordance with provisions of this plan.
      (2)   Any person who violates this plan is guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 and not more
than $500. Each day that one or more of the provisions in this plan is violated
shall constitute a separate offense. If a person is convicted of three or more
distinct violations of this plan, the Mayor shall, upon due notice to the
customer, be authorized to discontinue water service to the premises where such
violations occur. Services discontinued under such circumstances shall be
restored only upon payment of a reconnection charge, hereby established at
$500, and any other costs incurred by the town in discontinuing service. In
addition, suitable assurance must be given to the Mayor that the same action
shall not be repeated while the plan is in effect. Compliance with this plan
may also be sought through injunctive relief in the district court.
      (3)   Any person, including a person classified as a water customer of
the town, in apparent control of the property where a violation occurs or
originates shall be presumed to be the violator, and proof that the violation
occurred on the person’s property shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the person in apparent control of the property committed the violation,
but any such person shall have the right to show that he or she did not commit
the violation. Parents shall be presumed to be responsible for violations of
their minor children and proof that a violation, committed by a child, occurred
on property within the parents’ control shall constitute a rebuttable
presumption that the parent committed the violation, but any such parent may be
excused if he or she proves that he or she had previously directed the child
not to use the water as it was used in violation of this plan and that the
parent could not have reasonably known of the violation.
      (4)   Any employee of the town, police officer, or other person
designated by the Mayor, may issue a citation to a person he or she reasonably
believes to be in violation of this subchapter. The citation shall be prepared
in duplicate and shall contain the name and address of the alleged violator, if
known, the offense charged, and shall direct him or her to appear in the
municipal court on the date shown on the citation for which the date shall not
be less than three days nor more than five days from the date the citation was
issued. The alleged violator shall be served a copy of the citation. Service of
the citation shall be complete upon delivery of the citation to the alleged
violator, to an agent or employee of a violator, or to a person over 14 years
of age who is a member of the violator’s immediate family or is a resident of
the violator’s residence. The alleged violator shall appear in municipal court
to enter a plea of guilty or not guilty for the violation of this plan. If the
alleged violator fails to appear in municipal court, a warrant for his or her
arrest may be issued. A summons to appear may be issued in lieu of an arrest
warrant. These cases shall be expedited and given preferential setting in
municipal court before all other cases.
   (K)   Coordination with the regional water planning group. The town is
located within the Region C water planning area.
   (L)   Review and update of drought contingency plan. As required by TCEQ
rules, the town will review this drought contingency plan every five years,
beginning in May 2013. The plan will be updated as appropriate based on new or
updated information. As the plan is reviewed and subsequently updated, a copy
of the revised drought contingency plan will be submitted to the TCEQ, TRWD and
the RCWPG for their records.
(Ord. 352, passed 6-13-2013)  Penalty, see §
50.999
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.025  GENERALLY.
   The rates and charges for the furnishing of water from the municipal water
supply system of the Town of Lakeside shall be fixed and determined by the City
Council through means of resolution, and no ordinance shall be required in
order to fix and determine the rates.
(Ord. 150, passed 10-8-1992)
WATER SYSTEM
§ 50.040  CONTRACT FOR WATER SERVICES.
   From and after March 21, 2013, all customers desiring water services from
the town shall execute a contract for such services, which contract shall
contain the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   Water furnished under this subchapter is for the sole use of customer
and the selling, furnishing or permitting the use of water to third parties is
expressly prohibited.
   (B)   Statements for water service furnished and tapping fee charges will be
paid in conformance with the appropriate rate ordinances of the town.
   (C)   All lines up to and including the meter and meter box are and remain
the property of the town regardless of the location thereof.
   (D)   This contract and rights under this subchapter are not transferable
without consent of the town in writing.
   (E)   Additional service charge will be made for illegal tampering with
meter.
   (F)   Only one family unit per service connection shall be allowed to any
residential meter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.041  VIOLATION OF CONTRACT; NOTICE; DISCONNECTION.
   The town shall notify any customer it finds to have been in violation of the
terms and conditions of the contract, and should such violation not be abated
within ten days from the date of said notice or a request made by such customer
for a hearing before the Town Administrator or his or her designated agent, to
show cause why such customer is not in violation of such agreement, then the
town may disconnect such customer’s water service from the town’s water system.
Any forbearance by the town shall not constitute a waiver of its rights under
such contract or of this subchapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.042  WATER TAP FEES.
   From and after March 21, 2013, the town shall charge and collect fees, as
provided for in the town fee schedule, for making water taps into its water
system.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.043  CONSTRUCTION SITE; INSTALLATION OF METER BY TOWN.
   The town shall furnish and install for construction builders, developers and
landowners, water meters and water boxes for new buildings to be constructed
thereon and using town supplied water, upon the payment of a fee established by
the town for such meters and meter boxes.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.044  CONSTRUCTION SITE; MAINTENANCE OF METER.
   Upon the installation of such meters and meter boxes it shall be the
responsibility and duty of the contractors, builders, developers and/or
landowner paying the fee provided for in §
50.043 to keep and maintain in good and proper repair the meter and meter boxes
until the building or buildings served by the same shall be occupied.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.045  CONSTRUCTION SITE; REPLACEMENT.
   Neither the town nor its employees shall furnish replacement meters and/or
meter boxes serving premises until another fee for such meter and meter box is
paid in full.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.046  WATER RATIONING.
   Upon and after a finding by the City Council that an emergency exists to
such an extent that there should be imposed upon the citizens of the town or
any portion thereof, a plan for the rationing of water usage, the City Council
by majority vote of a quorum present shall be resolution in writing prescribe
the method and manner such rationing shall be put into operation, and shall
instruct the Town Administrator and his or her staff to carry out such
rationing plan.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.047  DAMAGING OR TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM UNLAWFUL.
   It is unlawful for any person to pilfer, tamper, destroy or damage in any
way whatsoever any part, section or component of the town water system.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.048  UNAUTHORIZED TURN ON OF WATER OR DAMAGING LOCK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person that is not specifically authorized by
the Town Administrator or Town Water Superintendent to restore (turn on) water
service to any premises.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person that is not specifically authorized by
the Town Administrator or Town Water Superintendent to remove, break, cut off
or damage in any way a lock placed on a water shutoff valve of the town water
system.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.049  UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION OR DISCONNECTION.
   It is unlawful for any person that is not specifically authorized by the
Town Administrator or Town Water Superintendent to do any of the following
acts:
   (A)   Install, remove, change, adjust, disassemble, connect or disconnect
any part, section or component of the town water system.
   (B)   Install, attach or connect any type, kind or size of hose, pipe, line,
tubing or any other thing that may carry water from the town water system to
any premises, public or private or to any type vehicle or container.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.050  METER TESTING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Whenever any person or persons demand(s) that a water meter be tested,
the town shall do so under the following conditions;
   (B)   Authorized personnel of the town shall remove such water meter and
take it to the appropriate testing laboratory.
      (1)   If the water meter tests are within the authorized limits as
defined by the American Water Works Association then the person or persons that
demanded such test being performed shall pay a service charge of $25 to the
town.
      (2)   If the testing laboratory finds that the water meter is defective
(out of normal limits as established by the American Water Works Association)
the town shall pay the service charge for testing of such meter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.051  DISCONTINUATION OF WATER SERVICE.
   The town shall discontinue water service (remove meter and/or water lines)
to any premises for any of the following reasons or acts:
   (A)   Willful or negligent damage or destruction to any part, section or
component of the town water system;
   (B)   Violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.052  PAYMENT FOR DAMAGE TO SYSTEM.
   Any person that damages or destroys in any way whatsoever any part, section
or component of the town water system shall be required to pay for all
replacement parts and/or repairs that may be needed to restore the water system
to the condition that the system was in prior to being damaged or destroyed.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.053  REQUIREMENTS FOR RECONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE.
   If water service is discontinued under the provisions as stated in §
50.051, water service shall not be restored until the following conditions are
complied with:
   (A)   Payment as provided for in the town fee schedule;
   (B)   Full payment of all accounts due the town.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM
§ 50.065  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENTS. Any complex which contains living units in excess of a fourplex.
   BUILDING WATER. That part of the water extending from a point five feet
outside of the outer wall of a building to a connection with the water service
line, at the property line.
   CITY. The Town of Lakeside, Texas.
   COMMERCIAL UNIT. Any business or non-residential occupancy which includes
but is not limited to hotels, motels, inns, lodging, houses, churches,
apartments servicing multiple units on a single meter, buildings constructed
for homeowners’ associations and non-profit organizations.
   HOTEL, MOTEL, INNS AND LODGING HOUSES. An establishment with units for
temporary lodging with a sleeping area and restroom facilities.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. That lot or tract of land which contains a building
constructed for residential, commercial, apartments, hotels, motels, inns,
lodging houses and mobile home parks.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A zoned tract of land with spaces for the accommodation of
either travel trailer or fixed mobile homes, under one property ownership.
   PUBLIC WATER AVAILABLE. The water main is within 100 feet of any part of the
property as measured from any rear, side or front property line.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any building or portion thereof which contains kitchen,
restroom, sleeping facilities or any combination thereof that is intended and
used for single family occupancy.
   TAP. The actual connection to the water main.
   WATER MAIN. Any line tying within a dedicated street right-of-way or
dedicated utility easement which conveys water from water service lines,
beginning at the tap.
   WATER SERVICE LINE. That part of the water line extending from the property
line to the main, including the tap.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.066  SERVICE PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to make any connection to the town water
system without first obtaining a permit from the town and paying all required
fees.
   (B)   All requests for water service shall be in writing on forms furnished
by the town.
   (C)   Customers for town water service shall be connected to the town sewer
system, if available, before water service will be allowed.
   (D)   Water service will not be available outside the town limits unless the
property owner has formally requested annexation by the town or service is
approved by the Director of Public Works.
   (E)   All newly constructed real property shall connect to the town water
system if available before occupancy is allowed.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.067  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to install, repair or relocate any water
service line.
   (B)   All work shall be inspected and approved by the town before being
covered.
   (C)   All water service lines shall be installed to the town’s construction
specifications.
   (D)   All new water service lines shall be installed at property corner
unless approved by the Water Superintendent.
   (E)   Water service lines shall be sized in accordance with the town’s
plumbing code.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.068  MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   Each occupied residential unit shall be charged a minimum monthly
charge as established from time to time by ordinance adopted by the City
Council plus volume charge in excess of the minimum.
   (B)   Apartments on one meter shall be charged minimum water charges based
on 90% of total living units served by that meter or required minimum plus
volume charge, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Mobile home parks on one meter shall be charged a minimum water charge
based on 90% of actual mobile home and/or travel trailer spaces served by that
meter or the required minimum plus volume charge, whichever is greater.
   (D)   Hotel, motel, inn or lodging house units on one meter shall be charged
a minimum charge based on 90% of total units under the same ownership or a
minimum charge plus a volume charge in combination with other units on the same
water tap, whichever is greater.
   (E)   Every commercial meter customer shall pay a minimum charge for each
separate business connected to the water from the meter plus the volume charge
for that meter or the required minimum for the meter size plus volume charge,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 50.069  RESALE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to purchase treated
potable water from the town and resell it without approval from the town.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY WELLS
§ 50.080  PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter sets forth uniform requirements for the users and the
construction of facilities in or on land within 150 feet of the wells in order
to promote sanitary conditions in and around such wells, to secure all such
land from pollution hazards, and to enable the town to comply with all
applicable state and local regulations.
   (B)   The objective of this subchapter is to prevent certain uses and the
construction of facilities in or on land surrounding the wells, which might
create a danger or pollution to the water produced from such wells.
(Ord. 333, passed 3-8-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Water wells, see also §
150.01
§ 50.081  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY COUNCIL.  The City Council of the Town of Lakeside, Texas.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or its legal representatives, agents,
successors, or assigns.
   TOWN. The Town of Lakeside, Texas.
   WELLS. Any and all water wells owned and operated now or in the future by
the town, the precise locations of which shall be identified on maps or plats
maintained by the town in the Town Secretary’s office.
(Ord. 333, passed 3-8-2012)
§ 50.082  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities are prohibited within the designated areas of land
surrounding the wells:
   (A)   Construction and/or operation of any underground petroleum and/or
chemical storage tank, liquid transmission pipeline, stock pen, feedlot, dump
grounds, privy, cesspool, septic tank, sewage treatment plant, sewage wet well,
sewage pumping station, drainage ditch which contains industrial waste
discharges or the wastes from sewage treatment systems, solid waste disposal
site, land on which sewage plant or septic tank sludge is applied, land
irrigated by sewage plant effluent, septic tank perforated drain field,
absorption bed, evapotranspiration bed, area irrigated by low dosage, low angle
spray on-site sewage facility, military facility, industrial facility, wood
treatment facility, liquid petroleum and petrochemical production, storage,
and/or transmission facility, Class 1, 2, 3, and/or 4 injection well, pesticide
storage and/or mixing facility, abandoned well, inoperative well, improperly
constructed water well of any depth, and all other construction or operation
that could create an unsanitary condition is prohibited within, upon, or across
all areas of land within a 150-foot radius of the wells. For the purposes of
this subchapter, IMPROPERLY CONSTRUCTED WATER WELLS are those wells that do not
meet the surface and subsurface construction standards for a public water
supply well.
   (B)   Construction and/or operation of tile or concrete sanitary sewers,
sewer appurtenances, septic tanks, storm sewers, and cemeteries is specifically
prohibited within, upon, or across any area of land within a 50-foot radius of
the wells.
   (C)   Construction of homes or building upon any area of land within a 150-
foot radius of the wells is permitted, provided the restrictions described in
divisions (A) and (B) above are met.
   (D)   Normal farming and ranching operations are not prohibited by this
subchapter; provided, however, livestock shall not be allowed within a 50-foot
radius of the wells.
(Ord. 333, passed 3-8-2012)
§ 50.083  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Town employees, or authorized representatives of the town, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to immediately enter upon
any premises located within a 150-foot radius of any well to conduct any
inspection or observation necessary to enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 3-8-2012)
§ 50.084  REQUIRED REMOVAL.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this subchapter shall be
required to remove the prohibited construction or potential source of
contamination within 15 days after notification that they are in violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 3-8-2012)
§ 50.085  SUPERSEDING REGULATION OR STATUTE.
   Whenever any applicable statute, regulation, or permit of any state,
federal, or other agency, having jurisdiction over the subject matter of this
subchapter, is in conflict herewith, the stricter requirement shall apply,
unless mandated otherwise.
(Ord. 333, passed 3-8-2012)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL - GENERAL POLICY
§ 50.100  PURPOSE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public potable water supply of the town from the
possibility of contamination or pollution, by isolating within the customer’s
internal distribution system(s) or the customer’s private water system(s) such
contaminants or pollutants that could backflow into the public water system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross
connections, actual or potential, between the customer’s in-plant potable water
system(s) and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures, and industrial
piping systems;
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control that will systematically and effectively prevent the
contamination or pollution of all potable water systems.
   (B)   Responsibility.
      (1)   The Town Administrator, or his or her designee, shall be
responsible for the protection of the public potable water distribution system
from contamination or pollution, due to the backflow of contaminants or
pollutants through the water service connection.
      (2)   If, in the judgment of the Town Administrator, or his or her
designee, an approved backflow-prevention assembly is required (at the
customer’s water service connection, or within the customer’s private water
system) for the safety of the water system, the Town Administrator, or his or
her designated agent, shall give notice in writing to the customer to install
an approved backflow- prevention assembly(s) at specific locations(s) on his or
her premises.
      (3)   The customer shall immediately install the approved assembly(s) at
his or her own expense.
      (4)   Failure, refusal, or inability on the part of the customer to
install, have tested, and maintain the assembly(s) shall constitute grounds for
discontinuing water service to the premises until such requirements have been
satisfactorily met.
(Ord. 371, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 50.101  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED.  Approved by the authority responsible as meeting an applicable
specification stated or cited in this subchapter or as suitable for the
proposed use.
   AUXILIARY WATER SUPPLY.  Any water supply on or available to the premises
other than the purveyor’s approved public water supply. These auxiliary waters
may include water from another purveyor’s public potable water supply or any
natural sourcc(s), such as a well, spring, river, stream, harbor, and so forth;
used waters; or industrial fluids. These waters may be contaminated or
polluted, or they may be objectionable and constitute an unacceptable water
source over which the water purveyor does not have sanitary control.
   BACKFLOW.   The undesirable reversal of flow in a potable water distribution
system as a result of a cross connection.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER.  An assembly or means designed to prevent backflow.
      AIR GAP.  The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere
between the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet conveying water or waste to
a tank, plumbing fixture, receptor, or other assembly, and the flood level rim
of the receptacle. These vertical, physical separations must be at least twice
the diameter of the water supply outlet, never less than one inch (25
millimeters).
      DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY.  The approved double check valve assembly
consists of two internally loaded check valves, either spring loaded or
internally weighted, installed as a unit between two tightly closing,
resilient-seated shutoff valves and fittings, with properly located resilient-
seated test cocks. This assembly shall only be used to protect against a non-
health hazard (that is, a pollutant).
      REDUCED-PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW-PREVENTION ASSEMBLY.  The approved
REDUCED-PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW-PREVENTION ASSEMBLY consists of two
independently acting approved check valves, together with a hydraulically
operating, mechanically independent pressure differential relief valve located
between the check valves and below the first check valve. These units are
located between two tightly closing, resilient-seated shutoff valves as an
assembly, and equipped with properly located, resilient-seated test cocks.
   BACKPRESSURE.  A pressure, higher than the supply pressure, caused by a
pump, elevated tank, boiler, or any other means that may cause backflow.
   BACKSIPHONAGE.  Backflow caused by negative or reduced pressure in the
supply piping.
   CONTAMINATION.  An impairment of a potable water supply by the introduction
or admission of any foreign substance that degrades the quality and creates a
health hazard.
   CROSS CONNECTION.  A connection or potential connection between any part of
a potable water system and any other environment containing other substances in
a manner that, under any circumstances, would allow such substances to enter
the potable water system. Other substances may be gases, liquids, or solids,
such as chemicals, waste products, steam, water from other sources (potable or
non-potable), or any matter that may change the color or add odor to the water.
   CROSS CONNECTIONS, CONTROLLED.  A connection between a potable water system
and a non-potable water system with an approved backflow-prevention assembly
properly installed and maintained so that it will continuously afford the
protection commensurate with the degree of hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL BY CONTAINMENT.
      (1)   The installation of an approved backflow-prevention assembly at the
water service connection to any customer’s premises, where it is physically and
economically unfeasible to find and permanently eliminate or control all actual
or potential cross connections within the customer’s water system; or
      (2)   The installation of an approved backflow-prevention assembly on the
service line leading to and supplying a portion of a customer’s water system,
where there are actual or potential cross connections that cannot be
effectively eliminated or controlled at the point of the cross connection.
   DESIGNEE.  The Water Utilities Superintendent of the Public Works Division
is the designated official, as assigned by the Town Administrator, who is
vested with the authority and responsibility for the implementation of an
effective cross-connection control program, and for the enforcement of the
provisions of this subchapter.
   HAZARD, DEGREE OF.  The term is derived from an evaluation of the potential
risk to public health and the adverse effect of the hazard upon the potable
water system.
      HAZARD, HEALTH.  A cross connection or potential cross connection
involving any substance that could, if introduced in the potable water supply,
cause death, illness, spread disease, or have a high probability of causing
such effects.
      HAZARD, NON-HEALTH.  A cross connection or potential cross connection
involving any substance that generally would not be a health hazard, but would
constitute a nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable, if introduced into the
potable water supply.
      HAZARD, PLUMBING.  A plumbing-type cross connection in a consumer’s
potable water system that has not been properly protected by an approved air
gap or an approved backflow-prevention assembly.
      HAZARD, SYSTEM.  An actual or potential threat of severe damage to the
physical properties of the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system, or of pollution or contamination that would have a
protracted effect on the quality of the potable water in the system.
   INDUSTRIAL FLUIDS SYSTEM.  Any system containing a fluid or solution that
may be chemically, biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a
form or concentration, such as would constitute a health, system, pollution, or
plumbing hazard, if introduced into an approved water supply. This may include,
but not be limited to: polluted or contaminated waters; all types of process
waters and used waters originating from the public potable water system that
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality; chemicals in fluid form; plating
acids and alkalies; circulating cooling waters connected to an open cooling
lower; and/or cooling towers that are chemically or biologically treated or
stabilized with toxic substances; contaminated natural waters, such as wells,
springs, streams, rivers, bays, harbors, seas, irrigation canals or systems,
and so forth; oils, gases, glycerine, paraffins, caustic and acid solutions,
and other liquid and gaseous fluids used in industrial or other purposes for
firefighting purposes.
   POLLUTION.  The presence of any foreign substance in water that tends to
degrade its quality so as to constitute a non-health hazard or impair the
usefulness of the water.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  The terminal end of a service connection from the
public potable water system, that is, where the water purveyor loses
jurisdiction and sanitary control over the water at its point of delivery to
the customer’s water system. If a meter is installed at the end of the service
connection, then the SERVICE CONNECTION shall mean the downstream end of the
meter. There should be no unprotected takeoffs from the service line ahead of
any meter or backflow-prevention assembly located at the point of delivery to
the customer’s water system. SERVICE CONNECTION shall also include water
service connection from a fire hydrant and all other temporary or emergency
water service connections from the public potable water system.
   WATER, NON-POTABLE.   Water that is not safe for human consumption or that
is of questionable quality.
   WATER, POTABLE.  Water that is safe for human consumption as described by
the public health authority having jurisdiction.
   WATER, USED.  Any water supplied by a water purveyor from a public potable
water system to a consumer’s water system after it has passed through the point
of delivery, and is no longer under the sanitary control of the water purveyor.
(Ord. 371, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 50.102  REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Water system.
      (1)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts: the
utility system and the customer system.
      (2)   Utility system shall consist of the source facilities and the
distribution system, and shall include all those facilities of the water system
under the complete control of the utility, up to the point where the customer’s
system begins.
      (3)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized
in the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the
distribution system.
      (4)   The distribution system shall include the network of conduits used
for the delivery of water from the source to the customer’s system.
      (5)   The customer’s system shall include those parts of the facilities
beyond the termination of the utility distribution system that are utilized in
conveying utility-delivered domestic water to points of use.
   (B)   Policy.
      (1)   No water service connection to any premises shall be installed or
maintained by the water purveyor unless the water supply is protected as
required by state or provincial laws and regulations and this subchapter.
Service of water to any premises shall be discontinued by the water purveyor if
a backflow-prevention assembly required by this subchapter is not installed,
tested, and maintained, or if it is found that a backflow-prevention assembly
has been removed, bypassed, or if an unprotected cross connection exists on the
premises. Service will not be restored until such conditions or defects are
corrected.
      (2)   The customer’s system should he open for inspection at all
reasonable times to authorized representatives of the town to determine whether
cross connections or other structural or sanitary hazards, including violations
of these  regulations, exist. When such a condition becomes known, the Town
Administrator, or his or her designee, shall deny or immediately discontinue
service to the premises, by providing for a physical break in the service line,
until the customer has corrected the condition(s) in conformance with state or
provincial and city statutes relating to plumbing and water supplies, and the
regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
      (3)   An approved backflow-prevention assembly shall be installed on each
service line to a customer’s water system, at or near the property line or
immediately inside the building being served; but in all cases, before the
first branch line leading off the service, wherever the following conditions
exist:
         (a)   In the case of premises having an auxiliary water supply that is
not or may not be of safe bacteriological or chemical quality, and that is not
acceptable as an additional source by the Town Administrator, or his or her
designee, the public water system shall be protected against backflow from the
premises by installing an approved backflow-prevention assembly in the service
line, appropriate to the degree of hazard.
         (b)   In the case of premises on which any industrial fluids or any
other objectionable substances are handled in such a fashion as to create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water system, the public system shall
be protected against backflow from the premises by installing an approved
backflow-prevention assembly in the service line, appropriate to the degree of
hazard. This shall include the handling of process waters and waters
originating from the utility system that have been subject to deterioration in
quality.
         (c)   In the case of premises have (1) internal cross connections that
cannot be permanently corrected and controlled, or (2) intricate plumbing and
piping arrangements or where entry to all portions of the premises is not
readily accessible for inspection purposes, making it impracticable or
impossible to ascertain whether or not dangerous cross connections exist, the
public water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by
installing an approved backflow-prevention assembly in the service line.
      (4)   The type of protective assembly required under divisions (B)(3)(a),
(B)(3)(b) and (B)(3)(c) shall depend upon the degree of hazard that exists as
follows;
         (a)   In (he case of any premises where there is an auxiliary water
supply, as stated in division (B)(3)(a), and it is not subject to any of the
following rules, the public water system shall be protected by an approved air-
gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow-prevention
assembly.
         (b)   In the case of any premises where there is water or a substance
that would be objectionable but not hazardous to health, if introduced into the
public water system, the public water system shall be protected by an approved
double check valve assembly.
         (c)   In the case of any premises where there is any material
dangerous to health that is handled in such a fashion as to create an actual or
potential hazard to the public water system, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure
principle backflow-prevention assembly. Examples of premises where these
conditions will exist include sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations,
chemical manufacturing plants, hospitals, mortuaries, and plating plants.
         (d)   In the case of any premises where there are “uncontrolled” cross
connections, either actual or potential, the public water system shall be
protected by an approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure
principle backflow-prevention assembly at the service connection.
         (e)   In the case of any premises where, because of security
requirements or other prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or
impractical to make a complete in-plant cross-connection survey, the public
water system shall be protected against backflow from the premises by either an
approved air-gap separation or an approved reduced-pressure principle backflow-
prevention assembly on each service to the premises.
         (f)   In the case of any premises where, in the opinion of the City
Engineer or his or her designee, an undue health threat is posed because of the
presence of extremely toxic substances, the Town Administrator, or his or her
designee, may require an air gap at the service connection to protect the
public water system. This requirement will be at the discretion of the Town
Administrator, or his or her designee, and is dependent on the degree of
hazard.
      (5)   Any backflow-prevention assembly required herein shall be a model
and size approved by the Town Administrator or his or her designee.
         (a)   The term APPROVED BACKFLOW-PREVENTION ASSEMBLY shall mean an
assembly that has been manufactured in full conformance with the standards
established by the American Water Works Association entitled, AWWA C510-89 -
Standard  for  Double  Check  Valve Backflow-Prevention Assembly, and AWWA
C511-89 - Standard for Reduced-Pressure Principle Backflow-Prevention Assembly;
and have met completely the laboratory and field performance specifications of
the Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research of the
University of Southern California established by “Specification of Backflow-
Prevention Assemblies”, Section 10 of the most current issue of the Manual of
Cross-Connection Control. The AWWA and FCCHR standards and specifications have
been adopted by the City Engineer, or his or her designee. Final  approval
shall be evidenced by a certificate of approval issued by an approved testing
laboratory, certifying full compliance with the AWWA standards and FCCHR
specifications.
         (b)   The following testing laboratory has been qualified by the City
Engineer, or his or her designee, to test and certify backflow preventers:
            Foundation for Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research
            University of Southern California
            University Park
            Los Angeles, CA 90089
         (c)   Testing laboratories, other than the laboratory listed above,
will be added to an approved list as they are qualified by the Water
Commissioner or Health Officer.
         (d)   Backflow preventers that may be subjected to backpressure or
backsiphonage that have been fully tested and have been granted a certificate
of approval by the qualified laboratory, and are listed on the laboratory’s
current list of approved backflow-prevention assemblies, may be used without
further testing or qualification.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the customer-user at any premises where
backflow-prevention assemblies are installed to have certified inspections and
operational tests made at least once per year. In those instances where the
Town Administrator, or his or her designee, deems the hazard to be great
enough, certified inspections may be required at more frequent intervals. These
inspections and tests shall be at the expense of the water user and shall be
performed by the assembly manufacturer’s representative, the Town
Administrator, or his or her designee, personnel, or by a certified tester
approved by the Town Administrator, or his or her designee. It shall be the
duty of the Town Administrator, or his or her designee, to see that these tests
are made in a timely manner. The customer-user shall notify the Town
Administrator, or his or her designee, in advance when the tests are to be
undertaken so that the customer-user may witness the tests if so desired. These
assemblies shall be repaired, overhauled, or replaced at the expense of the
customer-user whenever they are found to be defective. Records of such tests,
repairs, and overhaul shall be kept and made available to the Town
Administrator or his or her designee.
      (7)   All presently installed backflow-prevention assemblies that do not
meet the requirements of this section, but were approved assemblies for the
purpose described herein at the time of installation, and that have been
properly maintained, shall, except for the inspection and maintenance
requirements under division (B)(6), be excluded from the requirements of these
rules so long as the Town Administrator, or his or her designee, is assured
that they will satisfactorily protect the utility system. Whenever the existing
assembly is moved from the present location, requires more than minimum
maintenance, or when the Town Administrator, or his or her designee, finds that
the maintenance constitutes a hazard to health, the unit shall be replaced by
an approved backflow-prevention assembly meeting the requirements of this
section.
(Ord. 371, passed 5-8-2014)
§ 50.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
50.001 through
50.007 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined an amount of not less than $100 and not more than $500. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense. Such penalty provision is
cumulative of any and all rights the town has to enforce §§
50.001 through
50.007 through any lawful means including legal action seeking injunctive or
other appropriate relief.
   (B)   Any person who is found guilty of any violation of the provisions of
§§
50.040 through
50.053  shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $2,000. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   (1)   It is unlawful for any person, company, firm or association to
use water in a method or manner not prescribed by the resolution mentioned in §
50.046 and upon being found guilty thereof, such person, company, firm or
association shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $2,000. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Each day such unlawful use of water shall continue shall constitute
a separate and distinct offense.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person, company, firm or association to use
water in a method or manner not prescribed by §
50.056 and upon being found guilty thereof such person, company, firm or
association shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $2,000. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   (1)   Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association or any
agent or employees thereof, who shall violate any of the rules, regulations or
provisions of §§
50.065 through
50.069, or any part thereof, by any act, either by omission or commission, who
is found guilty of any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   If the town determines that any willful or continued violation of
the terms, conditions and provisions of §§
50.065 through
50.069 is occurring, the town, in addition to imposing the penalty set forth
above, may institute any appropriate action or processing in any court having
jurisdiction to restrain, correct or abate such violations. The authority of
the town to seek civil action to restrain, correct or abate a violation shall,
in no way, prevent or preclude the town from pursuing prosecution for a
misdemeanor offense. The town shall have the right to pursue both misdemeanor
prosecution and/or civil action to secure compliance with the terms of that
subchapter at its discretion.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
50.080 through
50.085 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed $2,000. Each day of violation shall constitute
a separate offense. Such penalty provision is cumulative of any and all rights
the town has to enforce §§
50.080 through
50.085 through any lawful means including legal action seeking injunctive or
other appropriate relief.
(Ord. 333, passed 3-8-2012; Am. Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013; Am. Ord. 352,
passed 6-13-2013)
CHAPTER 51:  GARBAGE
Section
   
51.01   Title; definitions
   
51.02   Duties and obligations of residential customer
   
51.03   Dead animals
   
51.04   Heavy accumulations
   
51.05   Manure
   
51.06   General prohibitions
   
51.07   Meddling and pilfering
   
51.08   Collection and removal
   
51.09   Receptacles to be sanitary and tightly closed
   
51.10   Permits for collection, removal, and disposal
   
51.11   Authorized agents
   
51.12   Supervision and surveillance
   
51.13   Effective date
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01  TITLE; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Title.  This chapter shall be known as the “Garbage Ordinance” of the
Town of Lakeside.  The word PREMISES as used in this chapter shall be construed
to mean places of business, business premises, offices, eating houses, private
residences, vacant lots, and any other place within the town limits of the Town
of Lakeside.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BRUSH.  Tree and shrub trimmings in bulk which are not easily placed in
disposable containers.
      DEBRIS.  Dirt, concrete, rocks, bricks, lumber, plaster, sand or gravel,
other waste building materials, dead trees and other bulky, heavy material.
      GARBAGE.  Refuse, animal or vegetable matter (as from a kitchen or any
other food processing facility), cans, bottles, sacks, clothes, extinguished
ashes, paper and any other household waste which is capable of emitting noxious
odors or which is unsightly.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Any waste, even though it may be part of a delivered
load of garbage, trash, or debris which:
         (a)   Is defined as such by the laws of the United States and/or the
State of Texas and/or the regulations promulgated thereunder;
         (b)   Because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical, or
infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase
in mortality or an increase in serious, irreversible or incapacitating
reversible illness or which poses a substantial present or potential hazard to
human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
accumulated or disposed of;
         (c)   Is identified or listed as a hazardous waste by the
Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (hereinafter
called “EPA”), pursuant to the Federal Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by
the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., or any subsequent amendments thereto;
         (d)   Is required to be accompanied by a written manifest or shipping
document describing the waste as HAZARDOUS WASTE, pursuant to any state or
federal law, including, but not limited to, the Federal Solid Waste Disposal
Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, and any
amendments thereto, and any state or federal regulations promulgated
thereunder;
         (e)   Contains polychlorinated biphenyls or any other substance, the
storage, treatment or disposal of which, is subject to regulation under the
Federal Toxic Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq., and any
amendments thereto, and any state and federal regulations promulgated
thereunder;
         (f)   Contains a “reportable quantity” of one or more “hazardous
substances,” as defined in the Federal Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 9601 et seq., as amended,
and any state or federal regulations promulgated thereunder; or
         (g)   Contains a radioactive material, the storage or disposal of
which, is subject to state or federal law and any regulations promulgated
thereunder.
      RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER or RESIDENCE.  All occupants of residential
districts as set out and defined in the zoning ordinances and maps of the Town
of Lakeside and shall mean every owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee thereof.
      SPECIAL WASTE.  Any waste, even though it may be part of a delivered load
of garbage, trash, or debris, excluding insignificant quantities normally found
in residential waste, which is:
         (a)   Defined as such by the laws of the United States and/or the
State of Texas and any regulations promulgated thereunder;
         (b)   Medical waste, including infectious or pathological waste from
laboratories, research facilities, health care facilities, and veterinary
facilities;
         (c)   Dead animals and/or slaughterhouse waste;
         (d)   Sludge waste, including water supply treatment plant sludges and
stabilized and/or unstabilized sludges from municipal or industrial wastewater
treatment plants;
         (e)   Liquid waste, which for the purposes of this chapter mean any
waste material that is determined to be or contain “free liquid” by the paint
filter test (EPA Method 9095);
         (f)   Waste from an industrial process;
         (g)   Waste from a pollution control process;
         (h)   Waste transported in a bulk tanker;
         (i)   Friable and/or nonfriable asbestos waste;
         (j)   Empty containers which have been used for pesticides,
herbicides, fungicides, or rodenticides not normally sold to or used by
residents or businesses not engaged in the business of treatment for insects,
pests, or rodents or treatment of lawns, shrubbery, and landscapes;
         (k)   Containerized waste (e.g., a drum, barrel, portable tank, box,
pail, and the like) of a type listed in this definition;
         (l)   Residue or debris from the cleanup of a spill or release of
chemical substances, commercial products or other wastes listed in this
definition;
         (m)   Soil, water, residue, debris, or articles which are contaminated
from the cleanup of a site or facility formerly used for the generation,
storage, treatment, recycling, reclamation, or disposal of wastes listed in
this definition, including soil contaminated from underground storage tanks
used or formerly used for the storage of petroleum products; or
         (n)   Residential wastes, only if a change in federal or state law,
statute, regulation, rule, code, permit, or permit condition, which occurs
after the effective date of this chapter, requires special or additional
management that differs from the requirements applicable on the effective date
of this chapter.
      TRASH.  All refuse other than garbage, debris, brush, yard waste,
hazardous waste and special waste and shall include sweepings, rags, glass,
scraps of metal and other refuse normally generated in business and residential
use.
      YARD WASTE.  Grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves, tree limbs less than
four feet in length and other materials accumulated as a result of the care of
lawns, shrubbery, vines and trees, but same shall not include food wastes from
gardens or fruit trees.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972; Ord. 127, passed 12-6-1990)
§ 51.02  DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS OF RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER.
   Every residential customer has the following duties and obligations:
   (A)   To provide and use disposable or permanent containers sufficient in
number to hold the garbage, trash, brush, and yard waste accumulating on the
premises.  A disposable container shall mean any plastic bag or cardboard box
with a capacity or volume of 33 gallons or less and which is capable of
containing garbage, trash, or yard waste without leaking or emitting odors, and
which weighs, when loaded, less than 50 pounds.  A permanent container shall
mean a closed, waterproof, plastic, synthetic or metal container or can with a
capacity or volume of 33 gallons or less and which is capable of containing
garbage, trash, or yard waste without leaking or emitting odors, and which
weighs, when loaded, less than 50 pounds;
   (B)   Shall place all garbage, trash, brush, yard waste, and recyclable
materials in approved permanent or disposable containers;
   (C)   Shall keep all the garbage and trash containers in use securely closed
in such a manner as to prevent the scattering of the contents thereof and to
render the contents inaccessible to insects, rodents, and other animals;
   (D)   Shall place brush or trash which cannot be placed in disposable
containers or permanent containers into lengths not to exceed four feet and tie
same in bundles not to exceed 30 pounds each;
   (E)   Shall place all vines and thorny bushes in appropriate containers;
   (F)   Shall not place for collection, or permit to be placed for collection,
any hazardous waste or special waste;
   (G)   Shall drain all water and other liquids from all garbage, yard waste,
trash, and recyclable materials before placing same into appropriate
containers;
   (H)   Shall place all disposable and permanent containers, recycling
containers, and brush at the curbside on the street bearing the residential
customer’s address in such manner as to be easily accessible for collection and
prevent the garbage, trash, or brush being scattered.  All the containers,
brush, yard waste, and recyclable materials shall be placed at the prescribed
curbside locations not more than 12 hours prior to the scheduled collection day
for pick up.  It is provided, however, that the obligation to place permanent
or disposable containers, yard waste, and brush at curbside shall not apply to
residential customers that have been designated as handicapped customers by an
employee designated by the City Council of the Town of Lakeside to issue the
designation pursuant to rules and regulations issued by the Town of Lakeside
nor shall same apply to a residential customer who shall have made previous
arrangements for the pick up of garbage, trash, yard waste, or brush with the
garbage contractor designated by the Town of Lakeside to be responsible for the
pick up of same at other than the curbside at the customer’s sole expense in
excess of that set herein;
   (I)   Shall remove all permanent containers and recycling containers that
are not disposed of by the garbage contractor on a regular collection day from
the curbside or front area of the property by not later than 7:00 a.m. on the
morning following the regular collection day; and
   (J)   Shall keep all permanent and disposable trash, garbage, and recycling
containers out of public view from any roadway that runs in front of the
property and shall not store same in front of any building line.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972; Ord. 127, passed 12-6-1990; Ord. 205, passed 5-13-
1999)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.03  DEAD ANIMALS.
   Heavy dead animals such as cows, horses, and mules shall be disposed of by
and at the expense of the owner or person having possession of same in a manner
and by a method conforming with accepted health standards.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.04  HEAVY ACCUMULATIONS.
   Heavy accumulations such as brick, broken concrete, lumber, ashes, clinkers,
cinders, dirt and plaster, sand or gravel, automobile frames, dead trees, and
other bulky, heavy material, shall be disposed of by and at the expense of the
owner or person controlling same in a manner and by a method conforming with
accepted health standards.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.05  MANURE.
   Manure from domestic animals and fowls shall be disposed of by and at the
expense of the party responsible for same in a manner and by a method
conforming with accepted health standards.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.06  GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw, or deposit any
brush, debris, garbage, yard waste, hazardous waste, special waste, trash or
dead animals, fish or fowl into, upon or along any drain, drainage ditch,
gutter, alley, sidewalk, street, or vacant lot or upon any public or private
premises within the town limits of the Town of Lakeside other than as is
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any individual person or officer, director,
employee, agent, or partner of any business entity owning, occupying, or
otherwise in control of any land or premises located within the town limits of
the Town of Lakeside to permit any accumulation or deposit of any garbage,
debris, brush, yard waste, hazardous waste, special waste, or trash onto, into,
upon, or along existing property owned, leased, occupied, or controlled by the
individual person or business entity.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any individual person, or officer, director,
employee, agent, or general partner, or for a corporation or partnership, to
allow the accumulation or deposit of any hazardous waste or special waste onto,
into, upon or along any existing property located within the town limits of the
Town of Lakeside.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972; Ord. 127, passed 12-6-1990)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07  MEDDLING AND PILFERING.
   The meddling with garbage cans, trash, or rubbish receptacles, or in any way
pilfering, scattering, contents or junkings in any alley or street within the
town limits is prohibited.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08  COLLECTION AND REMOVAL.
   The collection and/or removal of garbage, trash, and rubbish or of any kind
of junk within the town limits is prohibited except as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09  RECEPTACLES TO BE SANITARY AND TIGHTLY CLOSED.
   Garbage cans shall be kept in sanitary condition and tightly closed.  The
contents of all receptacles shall be so protected that the wind cannot blow out
and scatter over streets, alleys, and premises of the town.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.10  PERMITS FOR COLLECTION, REMOVAL, AND DISPOSAL.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring a permit for the collection,
removal, and disposal of garbage, trash, and rubbish and who proposes to
collect a fee therefor shall make application to the City Council, who shall
make and cause to be made such investigation as they may consider necessary in
order to determine whether or not the public convenience and necessity requires
the granting of the permit and the amount to be charged therefor.  All permits
so granted shall be nontransferable and the permits may be rescinded by the
City Council at any time in its judgment the action is deemed to be in the best
interest of the residents of the town and, in the event of the decision, no
refund shall be made of any permit fee or charge.  The City Council shall
determine if the applicant is fit and proper to conduct the business, and the
application shall set forth the name and address of the applicant; the trade-
name under which the applicant does or proposes to do business; the number of
vehicles the applicant desires to operate; the class, size, and design of each
vehicle; whether or not the applicant has been convicted of the violation of
any national, state, or municipal law (except minor traffic violations); and
whether or not the applicant, or any persons, firms, or corporations with whom
he or she has been associated or employed have a claim or judgment against him
or her for damages resulting from the negligent operation of a vehicle or
vehicles on the streets or public thoroughfares of the town; the nature and
character of the service the applicant proposed to render and the charges to be
made therefor; the experience he or she has had in rendering the service; the
patrons for whom he or she proposes to render this service, and any other
information as the City Council require.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)
§ 51.11  AUTHORIZED AGENTS.
   No person except the duly authorized agents shall empty garbage cans or
trash receptacles, containing kitchen garbage, dry kitchen refuse, trash, or
rubbish or convey or transport garbage or trash on the streets, alleys, and
public thoroughfares of the town without a written permit granted and issued by
the City Council.  Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any
person from the removal of heavy material, old junk (automobile frames, parts,
and the like), furniture, appliances from his or her own premises provided it
is accomplished at the expense of the owner or person controlling same in a
manner and by a method conforming with accepted health standards.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12  SUPERVISION AND SURVEILLANCE.
   Every owner, occupant, tenant, or lessee of a house or building used for
residential, business, or commercial purposes is required to maintain constant
supervision and surveillance over the garbage cans and trash receptacles on his
or her premises.  If either the garbage cans and trash receptacle should not be
emptied and the contents removed by an agent or representative of the town, or
other duly authorized persons, on the pick-up day scheduled, the occupant of
the premises must notify the agent or representative of the garbage collection
service of this fact within five days.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)
§ 51.13  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective and be in full force and effect
immediately after adoption and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be held guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
fined in any sum not more than $100 and each such day the violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 63, passed 11-13-1972)
CHAPTER 52:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Utilities; Generally
   
52.01   Intent and purpose
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Responsibilities of utility companies
   
52.04   Responsibility of private property owners
   
52.05   Effective date
   
52.99   Penalty
UTILITIES; GENERALLY
§ 52.01  INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to protect the public
health, safety, property, and the general welfare of the people, property
owners and to outline and define specifically the responsibilities of the
utility companies and private individuals with regard to the care, maintenance,
and repair of public utilities.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-13-1972)
§ 52.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKWAY-UTILITY EASEMENT.  The area of real property located between the
curb of streets with curbs or edge of the used street for streets without curbs
and the property line of each acre or acres.
   UTILITY COMPANY.  Any public or private utility engaged in the furnishing of
electricity, phone service, or gas service to all or any part of the
incorporated Town of Lakeside.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-13-1972)
§ 52.03  RESPONSIBILITIES OF UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the phone company after notice of
its utility’s failure or breakdown to locate the same and initiate repair or
other corrective measures.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the power company after notice of
its utility’s failure to locate the same and initiate repair or other
corrective measures whenever the failure occurs on or within public streets,
public ways, within parkway-utility easements, ordinary utility easements, and
through the metering device attached to any building or structure.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the gas company after notice of its
utility’s failure or breakdown to locate the same and initiate repair or other
corrective measures whenever the failure occurs on or within public streets,
public ways, within parkway-utility easements and ordinary utility easements. 
The gas utility company shall maintain all gas meters owned by the gas company.
   (D)   No utility company authorized herein to enter upon private property
for the purpose of repairing, maintaining, or servicing of its pipes, conduits,
or lines shall be guilty of a trespass in so doing.
   (E)   The same rights, privileges, and responsibilities herein described
relative to repair and maintenance shall hold forth with regard to original or
subsequent installation of utility services.
   (F)   The utility company may make the usual and customary charges for meter
deposits or other original installation costs against the property owner
involved from the point where its area of responsibility for repair and
maintenance ends.
   (G)   When any utility company shall make or cause to be made excavations or
shall place obstructions in any street, alley, public place or public way, or
parkway-utility easement, the public shall be protected by barriers and lights
placed, erected, and maintained by the utility company, and in the event of
injury to any person or damage to any property by reason of the excavation,
operation or maintenance of the utility, utility company shall indemnify and
hold harmless, the Town of Lakeside from any and all liability in connection
therewith.  The utility company shall repair, cleanup, and restore to the
original or better condition all streets, alleys, public ways, and parkway-
utility easements during the construction and repair of its system or
immediately after completion of the construction or repair.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-13-1972)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04  RESPONSIBILITY OF PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   No private citizen shall cause or attempt to cause an interruption of
power, gas, or water service without first giving notice of the intention to
the utility company involved, and no repair or alternation shall thereafter be
initiated until the property owner and utility company shall have first taken
adequate safeguards to prevent damage to adjacent property and/or injury to
citizens.
   (B)   The repair and maintenance of water, gas, and sewer lines or conduits
within property lines and not within parkway-utility easements, ordinary
utility easements, streets, or public ways shall be the exclusive
responsibility of the property owner whereon the lines exist.  The repair and
maintenance of power lines or conduits from the point that a meter or box is
attached to a structure and from that point on throughout the residence or
structures shall be the exclusive responsibility of the property owner.
   (C)   Excavations occurring incident to repairs and maintenance as outlined
in §
52.03(G), shall be filled immediately after completion of the repairs and in no
event shall the excavations be permitted to remain open for a period of time in
excess of ten consecutive days from the date that the same were initially
made.  The restoration of the excavations shall be to a condition equal to or
better than the original condition prior to excavation.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-13-1972)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-13-1972)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any section of §§
52.01 through
52.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum penalty permitted under State of
Texas law.  Each and every day that the person, firm, or corporation shall be
deemed a separate and distinct offense and punishable as such.
(Ord. 62, passed 11-13-1972)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWER ADMINISTRATION
Section
In General
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Department created; Superintendent
   
53.003   Permit required; compliance with regulations
   
53.004   Permit application; fee
   
53.005   Requirements for connection of residential and commercial garages
   
53.006   Septic tank use; connection to sewer system
   
53.007   Removal of defective septic tanks, cesspools or outdoor facilities
   
53.008   Installation of toilet facilities; required
   
53.009   Prohibited acts
   
53.010   Liability for damage to sewer or street
   
53.011   Unlawful connection to sewer
   
53.012   Depositing obstructing materials prohibited
   
53.013   Damaging sewer system prohibited
   
53.014   Excavation of streets; notice required
   
53.015   Barriers and lights required
   
53.016   Connection of building not within town permitted
   
53.017   Connecting old plumbing; approval required
   
53.018   Specifications for house sewer line connection
   
53.019   Basement drain; release of liability
   
53.020   Prohibited pipe connections
   
53.021   Enforcement; authority; inspection
   
53.022   Application for permit to extend sewer line
   
53.023   Inspection of extensions
   
53.024   Severability
Sewer Use Regulations
   
53.035   Definitions
   
53.036   Prohibited discharge
   
53.037   Industrial waste; permit required
   
53.038   Structures required
   
53.039   Disconnection of service line
   
53.040   Inspection; town not liable
   
53.041   Measurement of flow
   
53.042   Determining the character and concentration of flow
   
53.043   Pretreatment of waste
   
53.044   Abnormal sewage surcharge
   
53.045   Plans and specifications of pretreatment facilities
   
53.046   Waste from acid sinks
Computation of Charges
   
53.060   Determination
   
53.061   Intent
   
53.062   Wastewater Operation and Maintenance Fund
   
53.063   User contribution to costs; review by Town Administrator
   
53.064   Rates for user charges; formula
   
53.065   1986-87 rates for user charges; basis for computation
   
53.066   Discharge of toxic pollutants; increased rates
   
53.067   Rates; notification to user
   
53.068   Consistency with Clean Water Act requirements
   
53.069   Discontinuation of service for nonpayment of bills
   
53.070   Use of water meter to determine wastewater charge
   
53.071   Customer rates for user classes; basis for determination
   
53.072   1986-87 customer charges; basis for computation
   
53.073   Rules and regulations for enforcement
Connection to Sewer System
   
53.085   Definitions
   
53.086   Service permit required; application; exception
   
53.087   Sewer tap fees
   
53.088   Permit requirements
   
53.089   Minimum monthly charge
   
53.090   Private sewer facilities
Connections to Utilities
   
53.100   Unauthorized connection prohibited
Deposits for Public Services
   
53.110   Generally
   
53.111   Outside the town limits
   
53.112   Additional deposits
   
53.113   Exceptions
 
   
53.999   Penalty
IN GENERAL
§ 53.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOMESTIC SERVICE CONNECTION. Service to any dwelling unit occupied as living
quarters for one or more persons, which establishment or unit has sanitary
water or sewage facilities.
   EXISTING SEPTIC TANK. A sanitary septic tank in continued use serving a
structure or structures on property within the town as of March 21, 2013.
   FIXTURE CONNECTION. Either a kitchen, bathtub or shower, commode, washing
machine, floor drain, dishwashing vats and any other plumbing fixture from
which wastewater or sewage passes through and into the house drain and into the
house sewer, not including wash racks in garages and filling stations, provided
that when three or less dishwashing vats are connected as one unit, with one
dram, same shall be considered as the one FIXTURE CONNECTION.
   FUNCTIONING SEPTIC TANK. A sanitary septic tank which does not pose a threat
to the public health by virtue of overflow, requirement for pumping, emission
of odors, or improper filtration as determined by the building official of the
town.
   HOUSE DRAIN. A part of the main horizontal drain and its branches inside the
wall of the building and extending to and connecting with the house sewer.
   HOUSE SEWER. That part of the main drain or sewer extending from a point
four feet outside of the outer space of the outer wall or floor line to a
connection with the public sewer.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. The waste from water closets, lavatories, sinks, bathtubs,
urinals, household laundries, cellar floor drains, garage floor drains,
storerooms, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips, drinking fountains,
stable floors, drains and other fixture connections.
   SEWER AVAILABILITY. A sanitary sewer line has been installed by the town to
a point within 100 feet of property being served by an existing privately owned
sanitary septic system.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.002  DEPARTMENT CREATED; SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of providing for the efficient operation of the sewage
disposal system situated in the town, there is created with the town a
department to be known and identified as the Sewer Department, which department
shall be under the supervision of a Superintendent who shall be the
administrative officer of the Department and such other employees as the City
Council may direct. The Superintendent of the Sewer Department shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council for the
term as may be fixed by the governing body, and is to be paid such salary as
the City Council may provide. The Superintendent of the Sewer Department shall
leave general supervision over all employees of the sewer system and shall make
frequent trips of inspection over all pipelines and other property used in or
connected with the sewer systems, including the sewage disposal plant, and
shall make all repairs deemed necessary and consistent with his or her duties;
provided that the City Council, when deemed expedient, shall have the right to
consolidate the Department and/or position herein created with any other
department and or administrative position or positions, heretofore and
hereafter created, and assign all of the duties provided for the Sewer
Superintendent and authority herein conferred upon such officer to the officer
in charge of the office with which such consolidation is had.
   (B)   The Superintendent shall also report all violations of this chapter to
the Mayor, and shall forthwith proceed to have prosecuted, offenders as set
forth in this chapter, or any amendment thereof.
   (C)   In the performance of his or her duties as required by this section,
the Superintendent shall be subject to all town ordinances, rules and
regulations made pursuant thereto, at all times.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.003  PERMIT REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, persons, firm or corporation shall have the right to
connect any property with the sewer system of the town, and no connection with
the sanitary sewer system of the town shall be made until the owner of such
property, or his or her agent duly authorized shall have received from the town
a permit to do so, after having met the requirements herein specified to obtain
such permit. The owner of any property desired to be connected with the sewer
system of the town, or his or her duly authorized agent, shall first make an
application in writing signed by such owner, or his or her agent, duly
authorized in writing to sign such application for and in the name of the
owner, upon blanks furnished by the town and delivered to the officer in charge
of the Sewer Department of the town, for a permit to connect any such property
with the town sewer system. Such application shall contain the precise location
of the property to be drained; the type of structure and the purpose for which
same is used; give the name of the owner of the property and the number and
class of plumbing fixture to be contained within the private system or property
to be drained; the name of the person or firm employed to do the plumbing work
contemplated to be done and connected with the sewer system. Such application
shall further contain an agreement on the part of such applicant owner of the
property sought to be connected and drained by the sewer system of the town;
that he or she will promptly pay to the town the rental charges then or
thereafter to be prescribed by the town for the use of the sewer system at the
times and in the manner prescribed now or hereafter by the ordinances of the
town, that he or she will abide by and observe the rules and regulations
governing the use of the town sewer system and that he or she will be
responsible for the rental charges accruing up to the time that he or she gives
actual notice, in writing, to the town of a change in ownership of the
property, or to discontinue service thereto.
   (B)   Any such permit issued shall remain in force only so long as the owner
of the property, and the applicant therefor, shall comply with the rules and
regulations now or hereafter prescribed for the use of the sewer system, and
shall pay the rental charges as provided, and upon the failure of such property
owner in either or any respect to fully comply with the provisions hereof, said
permit shall be subject to cancellation, and the town shall have the right to
discontinue sewer service to such property. This stipulation shall also be
contained in the application for a permit.
   (C)   Before any application for a permit shall be received and permit
granted there must be paid to the town, inspection fees and one month rental
for sewer service in advance, said advance payment to be applied in payment for
the rental and service charge for the first month following commencement of
service, if the permit is issued following the fifteenth day of any calendar
month. If the permit is issued on or prior to such day charge for sewer service
shall commence on the first day of the month in which the permit is issued.
   (D)   Whenever any property for which a permit has been issued and sewer
service is being furnished changes ownership, the new owner shall make
application for a continuation of sewer service to such property, and such
application shall be made upon the same blanks and be subject to the same terms
and conditions, and contain the same stipulations as an original application,
and such application shall be marked application for continuation of sewer
service.
   (E)   When any person owning any property served by the sewer system in the
town shall change the plumbing in premises, other than single-family dwellings
used exclusively as such, to be connected with the sewer system so as to
increase the number of plumbing fixtures connected with the town sewer system,
such person shall make a new application, upon the same blanks, terms and
conditions as an original application as set out in this section.
   (F)   When sewer service for any property has been discontinued for any
reason, same shall not again be continued until the owner of such property
shall have made application as is set out in this section for original
application.
   (G)   No permit shall be deemed to authorize anything not stated in the
application.
   (H)   A permit to make a connection with the sewer system or for a
continuation of sewer service will be issued only when the plumbing in the
structure or property to be connected and drained, is in accordance with the
provisions for plumbing as are provided in the plumbing code for the town, now
in effect and hereinafter adopted, and has been inspected and approved by the
Town Plumbing Inspector.
   (I)   There shall be no reduction or abatement of sewer rental charge for
any property so long as said property is connected with the sewer system of the
town.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.004  PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE.
   Every application for permit filed to connect with the town sewer system
shall be accompanied by a fee, as provided for in the town fee schedule, to
cover the issuance of the permit, and inspection charges, as provided for in
the town fee schedule found, plus one month sewer rental charge in advance,
which sum shall be paid directly to the Town Secretary, and no permit shall be
issued unless such fee and charge has heed so paid; provided, however, that all
owners of property situated within the town who apply for sewer connection or
connections to their respective premises, prior to the initial construction and
installation of sewer mains in the immediate area where such property is
situated, the town will install a street service line running from the street
sewer main to such owner’s curb and gutter or sidewalk line, or to owner’s
property line when no curb and gutter or sidewalk exists, free of any cost to
the owner other than the payment of inspection fees at the time of filing
application for the sewer connection, and of the rental and service charge for
the first month beginning on the first day of the calendar month after sewer
service is made available to owner’s property, notwithstanding the available
sewer service is not being utilized by owner at such time.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.005  REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTION OF RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL GARAGES.
   (A)   Before any residential garage may be connected to the town sewer, same
shall be equipped with a cast iron sand trap, provided with removal receptacle
inside of trap to remove mud, sand and other refuse washed into same. This
provision does not apply where such drain is located in such a manner as to
receive drainage exclusively from a washing machine used for laundry purposes.
   (B)   Before any wash racks at all commercial garages and filling stations
may be connected to the town sewer system, same shall be equipped so that waste
water therefrom shall discharge into a two-compartment sand and grease trap
made of concrete.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.006  SEPTIC TANK USE; CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   From and after March 21, 2013, the policy set out in this section applies to
the connection of service to the town’s sanitary sewer system:
   (A)   If town sanitary sewer system service is available within 100 feet of
the subject property, the use of an existing septic tank may be continued until
the privately owned sanitary septic system ceases to be a functioning septic
tank. No privately owned sanitary septic system can be installed after the date
of sewer availability.
   (B)   The charge to the property owner by the town for connecting to
available town sewer shall be a tap fee, plus the applicable capital recovery
fee as set forth in the town fee schedule.
   (C)   A 50% discount on the tap fee will be allowed for any connection made
to the town sanitary sewer system if the tap fee, plus the capital recovery fee
is paid within 30 days from the date of sewer availability.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.007  REMOVAL OF DEFECTIVE SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS OR OUTDOOR FACILITIES.
   All defective septic tanks, cesspools and other structures, devices or other
class outdoor facilities used for the purpose of receiving human sewage that
may be on any premises, as of March 21, 2013, the property line of which, at
any point, extends to within 100 feet of a town sanitary sewer, shall be
removed or abated after the giving of notice as provided in this chapter for
removal and abatement of same.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.008  INSTALLATION OF TOILET FACILITIES; REQUIRED.
   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town and abutting
on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located or may in
the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the town is required at his or
her expense to install suitable toilet facilities and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer, within 90 days after the date
of official notice to do so, provided that the public sewer is within 100 feet
of the property line. All connections to the public sewer system shall be made
under the supervision of the town and its representatives.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.009  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It is unlawful:
   (A)   To uncover the public sewer or branches thereof unless by consent and
under the supervision of the officer in charge of the Sewer Department of the
town;
   (B)   For the owner or occupant of any building located on any lot reaching
within 100 feet of any town sanitary sewer, any portion of which is used for
any purpose during any portion of the day, to fail to have at least one water
closet connection with the public sewer or with any functioning septic tank in
place or in use prior to the availability of public sewer;
   (C)   For the owner or occupant of any building, located on any lot reaching
within 100 feet of any town sanitary sewer, in which food is cooked or clothing
washed, to fail to have a suitable sink, slop stone or hopper for the reception
of water and connected with the town sewer system or with a functioning septic
tank which was in place or in use prior to the availability of public sewer;
   (D)   To throw or allow to be thrown or deposited upon the surface of the
ground or in any hole or vault in or under the surface of the ground on any lot
within 100 feet of any town sanitary sewer, any water which has been used for
domestic or manufacturing purposes, or any liquid or any solid filth, feces or
urine;
   (E)   To throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited, in any vessel
or receptacle connected with the town sewer system, any newspaper, garbage,
hair, fruit, ashes, vegetable peelings or refuse, rags, cotton, cinders, or any
other matter whatsoever, except feces, urine, the necessary closet paper or
liquid slops;
   (F)   To allow any slops, wash or waste of any kind to flow over or under
the pavement into the streets or alleys;
   (G)   To enter in or upon the premises of the sewage disposal plant site and
to in anyway tamper with, or injure in any manner whatsoever, the buildings,
fixtures and equipment of the sewage disposal plant, or any fixtures, equipment
or supplies that may be stored on the site;
   (H)   To discharge any natural outlet within the town or in any area under
the jurisdiction of the town any sanitary sewage, industrial waste, or other
polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided;
   (I)   To construct or maintain within the town, any nonfunctioning septic
tank within 100 feet of any town sanitary sewers or to maintain within the
town, any privy, privy vault, cesspool or other facility, intended for the
disposal of sewage;
   (J)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works;
   (K)   To discharge or cause to be discharged into any public sewer any of
the following described waters or wastes:
      (1)   Any waste or water which contains more than 75 parts per million by
weight of fats, oil or grease;
      (2)   Any gasoline, benzine, naphtha, fuel oil, or other inflammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (4)   Any solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction to
flow in sewers or other interferences with the proper operation of the sewage
works;
      (5)   Any waters or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.010  LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE TO SEWER OR STREET.
   The property owner, or plumber, or both, shall be held responsible for any
injuries the plumber shall cause to the sewer or street in making such
connection.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.011  UNLAWFUL CONNECTION TO SEWER.
   No person or corporation shall connect any open gutter, septic tank,
cesspool, privy, vault or cistern with any public sewer or any private sewer
connected with the public sewer.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.012  DEPOSITING OBSTRUCTING MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   No person or corporation shall deposit any garbage, offal, dead animals,
filth or any substance having a tendency to obstruct the flow of sewage in any
manhole, flush tank or sewer opening.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.013  DAMAGING SEWER SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person or corporation to obstruct or in any way
injure any of the pipes, drains, works or machinery belonging to or connected
with the sewer system of the town, or to place any substance whatever into any
sink, water closet, bathtub, vessels, drains, or other receptacles, belonging
to or connected with the sewer system which may obstruct or injure same.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.014  EXCAVATION OF STREETS; NOTICE REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to lay pipes for water, gas, steam
or any purpose, in any street or alley where sewers are laid, shall give at
least 24-hour notice to the town officer in charge of the Sewer Department
before opening the street or alley, and the manner of excavating the trenches
and laying the pipe and backfilling over the same shall be subject to the
approval of the officer in charge of the Sewer Department. All such work shall
be planned and executed in accordance with the provisions of the plumbing and
other ordinances of the town so that no injury shall occur to any street,
public sewer or drain or to any house or other sewer drain connected therewith.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.015  BARRIERS AND LIGHTS REQUIRED.
   A proper, barrier and lights must be maintained on the banks of the house or
other sewer trench to guard the public against accidents during the progress of
work. In backfilling, no stone shall be used and the earth shall be carefully
rammed or flooded so as to keep the pipe in proper position and to avoid
settling.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016  CONNECTION OF BUILDING NOT WITHIN TOWN PERMITTED.
   The owner or occupant of any building not located within the town shall be
allowed to make connection with the sewer system after obtaining a permit as
provided in this chapter, and such work of connection shall be subject to the
regulations and inspections provided for in this chapter, and the owner or
occupant of any building thus connected shall be required to pay the
inspection, installation and the service charges exacted in this chapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.017  CONNECTING OLD PLUMBING; APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to connect any old housing plumbing to the town sanitary
sewer system unless same conforms in all respects to all requirements of the
plumbing code of the town and shall be approved by the Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.018  SPECIFICATIONS FOR HOUSE SEWER LINE CONNECTION.
   All connections of house sewer lines into the main and lateral sewer lines
shall be in accordance with the specification as it provided in the plumbing
code of the town.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.019  BASEMENT DRAIN; RELEASE OF LIABILITY.
   No permit for a basement drain shall be granted until the owner of the
building has executed and signed a written agreement releasing the town from
any damage that may result from basement being flooded by the stoppage of
sewers, which agreement shall be filed with the Town Secretary.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.020  PROHIBITED PIPE CONNECTIONS.
   No rainwater or downspout pipes, range boiler pipes or other pipe used to
convey water or other substances of like character, except the pipes necessary
to plumbing systems shall be connected to the sewer system.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.021  ENFORCEMENT; AUTHORITY; INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the officer in charge of the Sewer Department, or
his or her duly authorized agents, to enter all premises as may be necessary in
the enforcement of this chapter and he or she is so empowered; and it is
unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to interfere with any inspection
being made by the Town Plumbing Inspector, or the officer in charge of the
Sewer Department, or his or her authorized agents, in carrying out the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.022  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT TO EXTEND SEWER LINE.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring to construct, extend or make
extensions of any sewer main or sublateral lines to be attached to any sewer
mains or manholes in the sewer system shall be required to file an application
to secure a permit from the town.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit four copes of the plans and specifications
for the proposed extensions and any subsequent changes thereof. Such plans and
specifications shall be approved by the Town Engineer before any permit shall
be granted.
   (C)   All construction performed under any such permit shall be subject to
inspection by representatives of the town and all plumbing from all structures
connected by any such extensions shall be in compliance with all applicable
ordinances of the town.
   (D)   All extensions shall be constructed within easements dedicated to the
town without reservation.
   (E)   All plans and specifications for sewer improvements and extensions
shall be prepared by registered professional engineers and conform to standard
engineering practices.
   (F)   All such extensions and improvements shall be constructed as designed.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.023  INSPECTION OF EXTENSIONS.
   All new extensions to the town sewer system and appurtenances thereto shall
be inspected and approved by the officer in charge of the sewer system, and the
consulting engineer of the town, or his or her duly authorized representative,
before backfilling any part thereof. Any person, firm or corporation violating
this provision shall be subject to the penalty provided for in §
53.999, and shall be compelled to uncover the extension or any part thereof, so
that same may be fully inspected as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.024  SEVERABILITY.
   Should the courts declare any part of a section of this chapter invalid or
unconstitutional, or in conflict with any other section or part of a section,
then such decision shall affect only that section or part of a section of this
chapter. It is further expressly provided that each section and part of a
section herein, so far as an inducement for the passage of the ordinance
codified in this chapter is concerned, is independent of every other section
and every other part of a section is an inducement for the enactment of any
other section or part of section of this chapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 53.035  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABNORMAL SEWAGE. Any industrial waste having a suspended solids or B.O.D.
content in excess of that found in normal sewage but which is otherwise
acceptable into a public sewer under the terms of this subchapter.
   ABNORMAL SEWAGE PERMIT. A permit approved by and received from the Director
permitting the discharge or deposit of abnormal sewage into a sanitary sewer
upon payment of a surcharge.
   ABNORMAL SEWAGE SURCHARGE. The charge levied against any person for services
rendered during treatment of abnormal sanitary sewage or waste. This charge is
intended to partially defray the added cost of transporting and treating
abnormal sewage or waste. This charge shall be in addition to the usual monthly
charge for sanitary sewerage service.
   B.O.D. Biochemical oxygen demand, the quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure, as
specified in Standard Methods in five days at 20 degrees Centigrade expressed
as parts per million by weight (milligrams per liter).
   B.O.D. STRENGTH INDEX. The measure of the biochemical oxygen demand content
of sewage in parts per million (milligrams per liter).
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any system of condensation such as
air conditioning, cooling or refrigeration. COOLING WATER shall not be
discharged into any public sewer unless it is unpolluted and below 150 degrees
Fahrenheit.
   DIRECTOR. The Superintendent of the Water Works Department, or his or her
authorized representative.
   GARBAGE. Solid waste from domestic or commercial preparation, cooking or
dispensing of food or from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any and all liquid or waterborne waste from industrial or
commercial processes and does not include domestic sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE PERMIT. A permit to deposit or discharge industrial waste
into any sanitary sewer in the town.
   NORMAL SEWAGE. Sewage which, when analyzed, shows by weight a daily average
of not more than 2,500 parts per million gallons (300 parts per million) of
suspended solids and not more than 2,500 pounds per million gallons (300 parts
per million) of B.O.D., and which is otherwise acceptable into a public sewer
under the terms of this subchapter.
   OWNER or OCCUPANT. The person, firm or public or private corporation, using
the lot, parcel of land, building or premises connected to and discharging
sewage, industrial wastewater or liquid, into the sanitary sewage system of the
town, and who pays, or is legally responsible for the payment of, water rates
or charges made against the lot, parcel of land, building or premises, if
connected to the water distribution system of the town, or who would pay or be
legally responsible for such payment if so connected.
   PERSON. Any individual, business entity, partnership, corporation,
governmental agency or political subdivision.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams
per liter of solution, measured and calculated in accordance with Standard
Methods.
   POLLUTED WATER OR WASTE. Any water or liquid waste containing any of the
following: phenols or other substances to an extent imparting taste and odor in
receiving waters; toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state
or solution; noxious or odorous gases; more than 1,000 parts per million, by
weight, of dissolved solids, of which more than 500 parts per million are
chloride; more than 15 parts per million each of suspended solids and/or
B.O.D.; color exceeding an objectionable limit; or having a pH value of less
than 5.5 or more than 10.0 and/or any water or waste not approved for discharge
into a stream or waterway by the appropriate state authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to such a degree
that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any
dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any publicly owned sanitary sewer, storm drain or watercourse.
   SANITARY SEWER. A publicly owned pipe or conduit designed to collect and
transport industrial waste and domestic sewage.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices or structures used for
treating sewage.
   S.S. STRENGTH INDEX. The measure of the suspended solids content of sewage
in parts per million (milligrams per liter).
   STANDARD METHODS. “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater,” prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, American Waterworks Association and the Water Pollution Control
Federation, 12th Edition, Second Printing, March, 1966.
   STRENGTH INDEX. Both the biochemical oxygen demand index and the suspended
solids strength index.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquid and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER OR WASTE. Any water or liquid waste containing none of the
following: phenols or other substances to an extent imparting taste and odor in
receiving waters; toxic or poisonous substances in suspension colloidal state
or solution; noxious or odorous gases; not more than 1,000 parts per million by
weight, of dissolved solids, of which not more than 500 parts per million are
chloride; not more than 500 parts per million are chloride; nor more than ten
parts per million of each of suspended solids and B.O.D.; color not exceeding
objectionable limit, nor a pH value of less than 5.5 nor higher than 10.0 and/
or any water or waste approved for discharge into a stream or waterway by the
appropriate state authority.
   WASTEWATER. Water that has been used by and discharged from an industry,
commercial enterprise, household or other water consumer, which water may be
either polluted or unpolluted.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.036  PROHIBITED DISCHARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any polluted water or corrosive waste into any storm drain or
watercourse within the town.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, or drainage from downspouts,
yard drains, yard fountains and ponds, or lawn sprays into any sanitary sewer,
except as provided by town ordinance. Water from swimming pools, unpolluted
industrial water, such as water drains, blow-off pipes, or cooling water from
various equipment shall not be discharged into sanitary sewers if a closed
storm sewer is available. If a closed storm sewer is not available, such water
may be discharged into the sanitary sewer by indirect connection whereby such
discharge is cooled, if required, and flows into the sanitary sewer at a rate
not in excess of five gallons per minute, provided that the waste does not
contain materials or substances in suspension or solution in violation of the
limits prescribed by this subchapter.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any public
sewer any of the following described substances, materials, waters or waste:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit (65 degrees Centigrade);
      (2)   Any water or waste which contains wax, grease or oil, plastic or
other substance that will solidify or become discernibly viscous at
temperatures between 32 degrees to 150 degrees Fahrenheit;
      (3)   Flammable or explosive liquid, solid or gas, such as gasoline,
kerosene, benzene, naphtha, and the like;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities capable of causing
obstruction in the flow in sewers or other interference with proper operation
of the sewage works, such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, whole
blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, lime slurry, lime residues,
slops, chemical residues, paint residues, or bulk solids;
      (5)   Any garbage that has not been properly comminuted or shredded. If
properly comminuted or shredded, then it may be accepted if suitably
pretreated;
      (6)   Any noxious or malodorous substances which can form a gas which,
either singly or by interaction with other waste, is capable of causing
objectionable odors or hazards to life or form solids in concentration
exceeding limits established in this subchapter, or creates any other condition
deleterious to structures or treatment processes, or requires unusual
provisions, attentions or expense to handle such material. Any toxic or
poisonous substances as defined by the Texas Water Quality Board.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into any public
sewer any of the following, except in quantities or concentrations, or with
provisions as stipulated in this division (D):
      (1)   Free or emulsified oil and grease exceeding 100 parts per million
(834 pounds per million gallons) of either or both, or combinations of, free or
emulsified oil and grease;
      (2)   Acids or alkalis which attack or corrode sewers or sewage disposal
structures or have a pH value lower than 5.5 or higher than 10.0;
      (3)   Salts of a heavy metal and/or other toxic material in
concentrations exceeding those established by the Texas Water Quality Board as
effluent limitations, including, but not limited to, the following:
 
Chromium as Cr 3 parts per million
Copper as Cu   1.0 parts per million
Zinc as Zn     3 parts per million
Nickel as Ni   1.0 parts per million
Cadmium as CD  0.02 part per million
 
or elements which will damage collection facilities or are detrimental to
treatment process;
      (4)   Cyanide or cyanogen compounds in excess of two parts per million by
weight as CN;
      (5)   Any water or, waste that contains more than ten parts per million
of the following gases: hydrogen sulphide, sulphur dioxide or nitrous oxide;
      (6)   Radioactive materials, in the absence of a specific permit issued
by the Director for the discharge of such waste.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.037  INDUSTRIAL WASTE; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   From and after 90 days after the effective date of the ordinance codified in
this subchapter, it is unlawful for any person to deposit or discharge
industrial waste into any sanitary sewer in the town without having first
obtained an industrial waste permit from the town and having complied with all
of the applicable provisions hereof. Within 90 days after the effective date of
the ordinance codified in this subchapter, any person desiring to deposit or
discharge, or who is now depositing or discharging industrial waste into any
sanitary sewer in the town shall make application to the Chief Plumbing
Inspector for a permit. Application forms will be furnished by the Chief
Plumbing Inspector on request. The Chief Plumbing Inspector shall refer all
such applications to the Director for his or her approval or disapproval. The
Director shall approve such applications and grant an industrial waste permit
only when the evidence submitted by the applicant demonstrates that the waste
or wastewater to be deposited by the applicant in the sanitary sewer will
comply with all the regulations of this subchapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.038  STRUCTURES REQUIRED.
   Within 180 days after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
subchapter, any person discharging industrial waste into a sanitary sewer in
the town shall construct a suitable control manhole, downstream from any
treatment or storage tanks or other approved works utilized by such person for
pretreatment, such control manhole to be for the purpose of facilitating
observations, measurements and sampling of all waste created and discharged by
such person. The control manhole shall be constructed at a location and in a
manner approved by the Director. The control manhole shall be constructed and
installed at the expense of the person discharging the waste, and it shall be
maintained at the expense of such person at all times in a safe, acceptable and
proper operating condition.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.039  DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE LINE.
   If any person, depositing or discharging industrial waste into the sanitary
sewer fails to secure an industrial waste permit within the time prescribed in
this subchapter, or if any person allows or causes waste of unacceptable
quality under the requirements of this section to be discharged into any
sanitary sewer in the town, the Director is authorized, if such person is using
town water, to disconnect such person’s service line from the town water system
and/or the town sanitary sewer system and the same shall only be reconnected at
the owner’s expense. If such person does not use town water, the Director is
authorized to disconnect such person’s service line from the town’s sanitary
sewer system and the same shall only be reconnected at the owner’s expense. The
Director shall notify the occupant or user of the premises where the waste is
generated 24 hours before disconnecting the service line. No sanitary sewer
connection or water connection disconnected hereunder shall be reconnected
until the condition causing the disconnection has been corrected.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.040  INSPECTION; TOWN NOT LIABLE.
   The inspectors, agents or representatives of the town charged with the
enforcement of this chapter shall be deemed to be performing a governmental
function for the benefit of the general public and neither the town, the
Director nor the individual inspector, agent or representative shall ever be
held liable for any loss or damage, whether real or asserted, caused or alleged
to have been caused as a result of the performance of such governmental
function. The owners or occupants of premises where industrial waste is created
or discharged into the sanitary sewer shall allow the Director, his or her
inspectors, agents or representatives free access at all reasonable times to
all parts of such premises for the purpose of inspection or sampling or the
performance of any of their duties hereunder, and the failure or refusal of
such owners or occupant to comply with this provision shall be grounds for the
disconnection of water and/or sewer service.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.041  MEASUREMENT OF FLOW.
   (A)   The volume of flow used in computing abnormal sewage surcharges shall
be based upon metered water consumption as shown in the records of meter
readings maintained by the Water Department. In the event that a person
discharging waste into the town’s sanitary sewer system produces evidence to
the Director demonstrating that a substantial portion of the total amount of
water used for all purposes does not reach the town’s sewer system, an
estimated percentage of total water consumption to be used in computing charges
may be established by the Director.
   (B)   Any person discharging industrial waste into the sanitary sewers of
the town who procures any part or all of his or her water supply from sources
other than the Water Department, all or part of which is discharged into the
sanitary sewer, shall install and maintain at his or her expense water meters
of the type approved by the Director for the purpose of determining the proper
volume of flow to be used in computing sewer service charges. Such meters shall
be read monthly and tested for accuracy when deemed necessary by the Director.
Where it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Director that a substantial
portion of the water as measured by the aforesaid meter, or meters, does not
enter the sanitary sewer system of the town, then the Director may require or
permit the installation of additional meters at the owner’s expense in such
manner as to measure the quantity of water actually entering the sanitary
sewerage system from the lot, parcel of land, building or premises of such
owner or occupant, and the quantity of water used to determine the sewer
service charge and abnormal sewage surcharge may be the quantity of water
actually entering the sewerage system as so determined, if the Director so
elects.
   (C)   If the Director finds that it is not practicable to measure the
quantity or quality of waste by the aforesaid meters or monitoring devices, he
or she shall determine the quantity or quality of the waste in any manner or
method he or she may find practicable in order to arrive at the percentage of
water entering the sanitary sewerage system of the town and/or the quality of
the sewage to be used to determine the sewer service charge and surcharge.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.042  DETERMINING THE CHARACTER AND CONCENTRATION OF FLOW.
   The industrial waste discharged or deposited into the sanitary sewers shall
be subject to periodic inspection and sampling as often as may be deemed
necessary by the Director. Samples shall be collected in such manner as to be
representative of the character and concentration of the waste under
operational conditions. The laboratory methods used in the examination of the
waste shall be made by the Director at such times and on such schedules as may
be established by the Director. Should an owner or occupant discharging
industrial waste to the sanitary sewers desire a determination of the quality
of such industrial waste be made at some time other than that scheduled by the
Director, then the unscheduled determination shall be at the expense of the
owner or occupant discharging the waste.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.043  PRETREATMENT OF WASTE.
   Owners or occupants, or any other person, generating waste prohibited from
discharge into public sewers by the foregoing shall pretreat or otherwise
dispose of such prohibited waste so as to make the waste discharged to the
public sewer acceptable under the standards established in this subchapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.044  ABNORMAL SEWAGE SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Persons generating abnormal sewage may discharge such sewage into the
sanitary sewer provided:
      (1)   The waste will not cause damage to the collection system;
      (2)   The waste will not impair the treatment processes;
      (3)   The person discharging such waste pays a monthly surcharge to the
Water Department in addition to the usual monthly sewer service charges.
Computations of such surcharges shall be based on the following formula:
S - V x 62.4 x (0.01 l(B.O.D. - 300) + 0.007(S.S. - 300)) S - surcharge in
dollars
V = water consumption in millions of cubic feet during the billing period
62.4 = pounds per cubic foot of water
0.011 = unit charge per pound for B.O.D. in dollars
B.O.D. = B.O.D. strength index in parts per million by weight
300 = normal B.O.D. strength in parts per million by weight
0.007 = unit charge per pound for suspended solids in dollars
S.S = suspended solids strength index in parts per million by weight
300 = normal suspended solids strength in parts per million by weight
 
   (B)   Abnormal sewage surcharges payable under this section shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Commencing January 1, 1970, 33% of charges computed by formula;
      (2)   Commencing October 1, 1970, 66% of charges computed by formula;
      (3)   Commencing October 1, 1971, 100% of charges computed by formula.
   (C)   If the strength index for either B.O.D. or S.S. is less than the
normal strength index for that category, then there shall be no surcharge for
that category, nor shall there be credit given to the total surcharge.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.045  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS OF PRETREATMENT FACILITIES.
   It shall be the responsibility of any person, owner or occupant discharging
waste into the sanitary sewerage system of the town to furnish the town with
drawings or plans and specifications in such detail as may be required to
determine if the pretreatment structure planned by such person, or in use by
such person, is suitable for the purpose intended. However, the approval of
such plans by the town will in no way relieve such person of the responsibility
for modifying the structure once constructed as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable under the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.046  WASTE FROM ACID SINKS.
   Drains receiving acid waste shall be constructed of any acid-resisting
material. Such drains located outside of a building shall be constructed of
vitrified clay or earthenware pipe or other approved acid-resisting material.
Joints shall be constructed by caulking with asbestos rope wicking and by
pouring a heated sulphur and carbon compound or a heated bituminous compound in
such manner as to secure tight joints. In no case shall corrosive waste be
discharged into a drain, sanitary sewer, storm sewer or soil or waste pipe
without being first diluted or neutralized in such manner as to render such
wastes noncorrosive. These wastes shall be treated by passing through a
properly trapped dilution or neutralizing catchbasin which shall function
automatically.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
COMPUTATION OF CHARGES
§ 53.060  DETERMINATION.
   It is determined and declared to be necessary for the due protection of the
public health, safety and welfare of the town to establish and collect charges
for the use of the wastewater system on all lots, lands and premises served by
or having connection with the system.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.061  INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to ensure that each recipient of waste
treatment services will pay its proportionate share of the costs of operation
and maintenance (including replacement) and to provide the town’s waste
treatment system with a self-sufficient source of funds with respect to
operation and maintenance costs.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.062  WASTEWATER OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUND.
   The funds received for the collection of the rates and charges provided in
this chapter shall be deposited as received with the Town Secretary, who shall
keep the same in a separate fund designated as the Wastewater Operation and
Maintenance Fund. Subject to the provisions of any ordinance, monies in said
Fund shall be used for the payment of the cost and expense of operation,
maintenance, repair and management of the system.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.063  USER CONTRIBUTION TO COSTS; REVIEW BY TOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator shall review, not less often than every two years,
the wastewater contribution of users and user classes, the total costs of
operation and maintenance of the treatment works, and this user charge system.
The Town Administrator, with approval of the City Council, shall revise the
charges for users or user classes at that time to accomplish the following:
   (A)   Maintain the proportionate distribution of operation and maintenance
costs among the users and user classes as required in this subchapter;
   (B)   Generate sufficient revenue to pay the total operation and maintenance
costs necessary to the proper operation and maintenance (including replacement)
of the wastewater treatment system; and
   (C)   Apply excess revenues collected from a class of users to the costs of
operation and maintenance attributable to that class for the next year and
adjust the rate accordingly.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.064  RATES FOR USER CHARGES; FORMULA.
   (A)   The rate for user charges shall be based on the following formula:
UC = UCv + UCq
UC - VcVu + BcBu + ScSu
The symbols used in the above formula are defined as follows: UC = Annual user
charge
Vc = Annual operation and maintenance cost for treatment of a unit of
wastewater volume
Vu = Annual volume contribution from a user
Be = Annual operation and maintenance cost for treatment of a unit of
biochemical oxygen demand (BOD)
Bu = Annual BOD contribution from a user
Sc = Annual operation and maintenance cost for treatment of a unit of suspended
solids
Su = Annual suspended solids contribution from a user
 
   (B)   When a user or user class discharges wastewaters other than normal
sewage, as defined in §
53.035, a surcharge shall be imposed to cover any added costs of collection and
treatment. If the discharge contains BOD or suspended solids in excess of
normal sewage, Bu and Su for the base user charge formula shall be adjusted. If
any other identifiable pollutant is increasing the cost of treatment, the
following term shall be added to the base formula: + PcPu. Pc is defined as O
and M cost for treatment of any pollutant. Pu is defined as total contribution
of any pollutant from a user per unit of time.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.065  1986-87 RATES FOR USER CHARGES; BASIS FOR COMPUTATION.
   (A)   For the purposes provided in §
53.064, the following shall be used as a basis for user charges for the ensuing
year of operation of the wastewater treatment facility:
 
Vc = $0,164 per 1,000 gallons of wastewater
Be = $0,081 per pound of BOD
Sc - $0,074 per pound of SS
 
   (B)   For users who discharge wastewater defined in §
53.035 as normal sewage, the user charge per one thousand gallons of wastewater
will be based on 200 milligrams per liter of BOD and two 220 milligrams per
liter of SS. The resulting charge for dischargers of normal domestic wastewater
shall be provided for in the town fee schedule.
   (C)   For the purposes of §§
53.069 and
53.070, the return of wastewater to the wastewater treatment system shall be
assumed to be 70% of the quantity of water used. The resulting charge for
normal sewage’ determined by §§
53.069 and
53.070 shall be provided for in the town fee schedule.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.066  DISCHARGE OF TOXIC POLLUTANTS; INCREASED RATES.
   Any user which discharges any toxic pollutants which causes an increase in
the cost of managing the effluent or the sludge of the town’s treatment works
shall pay for such increased costs.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.067  RATES; NOTIFICATION TO USER.
   Each user shall be notified, at least annually, in conjunction with a
regular bill, of the rate and that portion of the user charges which is
attributable to wastewater treatment services.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.068  CONSISTENCY WITH CLEAN WATER ACT REQUIREMENTS.
   This subchapter shall take precedence over any terms or conditions of
agreements or contracts between the town and wastewater treatment system users
which are inconsistent with the requirements of Section 204(b)(1)(A) of the
Clean Water Act (33 USC 1251 et seq., as amended).
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.069  DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT OF BILLS.
   The wastewater charges levied at the rates established by §
53.064 shall be effective March 21, 2013. Bills are due when rendered and
become past due if not paid after the fifteenth day of each month. Service to
customers having past due bills will be discontinued as provided in the town’s
service regulations.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.070  USE OF WATER METER TO DETERMINE WASTEWATER CHARGE.
   (A)   On premises using water exclusively supplied by the municipal
waterworks of the town, and having a water meter acceptable to the City
Council, the quantity of water used, as measured by such meter, shall determine
the wastewater charge thereon, as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   On premises using water exclusively supplied from other sources than
said municipal waterworks where the quantity of water used thereon is not
measured by a water meter or is measured by water meter not acceptable to the
City Council, the owner or other interested party may be required, at his or
her expense, to install and maintain an acceptable water meter, and the
quantity of water used as measured by such meter shall determine the wastewater
charge as provided in this subchapter, or said quantity of water used may be
established by agreement between such owner or interested party and the town.
   (C)   On premises using water supplied in part by said municipal waterworks
and in part from other sources not measured by a water meter acceptable to the
town, such owner or other interested party may be required, at his or her
expense, to install and maintain an acceptable water meter to measure water
from such other sources and the quantity of water used as measured by said
meter, plus such measured quantity for the wastewater charge as provided in
this subchapter, or the quantity of water used may be established by agreement
between such owner or interested party and the town.
   (D)   In the event it can be shown to the satisfaction of the Town
Administrator of the town, with respect to any premises, that a portion of the
water from any source used thereon does not and cannot enter the system, then
in each such case, the owner or other interested party may, at his or her
expense, install and maintain separate water meters where necessary, so as to
show to the satisfaction of the town that portion only of the water used that
is discharged into the system, and that quantity of water so used, as measured
by such meter or meters showing discharge into the system, shall determine the
wastewater charge thereon, at the rates provided in this subchapter or, if the
quantity of water being discharged into the system is established by agreement,
such negotiated quantity, at the rate provided in this subchapter, shall
determine the wastewater charges.
   (E)   The owner of any building or premises receiving water from any source
other than said municipal waterworks shall register the same with the town, and
shall install, at his or her own expense, metering equipment satisfactory to
the town to measure such private supply, or, at the option of the town, may
establish, by agreement, the quantity of water to be discharged into the
system. In an interim period allowed by the City Council prior to such
installation or agreement, the City Council may establish such charges as it
deems equitable.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.071  CUSTOMER RATES FOR USER CLASSES; BASIS FOR DETERMINATION.
   The monthly customer rate for administration and transportation of the
wastewater of each user class (residential, commercial and industrial) is based
on the demand that the class has placed on the system during the month of peak
use.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.072  1986-87 CUSTOMER CHARGES; BASIS FOR COMPUTATION.
   For the purposes provided in §
53.071, the following 1985-86 results shall be used as a basis for customer
charges for the ensuing year of operation of the wastewater transportation and
administration facilities: Dr = 80.04%, Dc =14.56%, Di = 5.40%.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.073  RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Council of the town shall make and enforce such rules and
regulations as it may deem necessary for the enforcement of the provisions of
this subchapter, for the proper determination and collection of the rates and
charges herein provided and for the safe, efficient and economical management
of the system, and such rules and regulations, when not repugnant to existing
ordinances of the town or the laws of the State of Texas, shall have the same
force and effect as ordinances of the City Council.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
CONNECTION TO SEWER SYSTEM
§ 53.085  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENTS. Any complex which contains living units in excess of a fourplex.
   BUILDING SEWER. That part of the sewer extending from a point five feet
outside of the outer wall of a building to a connection with the sewer service
line, at the property line.
   CITY. The Town of Lakeside, Texas.
   COMMERCIAL UNIT. Any business or non-residential occupancy which includes
but is not limited to hotels, motels, inns, lodging houses, churches,
apartments servicing multiple units on a single meter, buildings constructed
for homeowner’s associations and non-profit organizations.
   HOTEL, MOTEL, INNS AND LODGING HOUSES. An establishment with units for
temporary lodging with a sleeping area and restroom facilities.
   IMPROVED PROPERTY. That lot or tract of land which contains a building
constructed for residential, commercial, apartments, hotels, motels, inns,
lodging houses and mobile home parks.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. A zoned tract of land with spaces for the accommodation of
either travel trailer or fixed mobile homes, under one property ownership.
   POTW. Public-owned treatment works.
   PUBLIC SEWER AVAILABLE. The sewer main is within 100 feet of the center of
the property, as measured perpendicular from the front, rear or sides of the
property.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any building or portion thereof which contains kitchen,
restroom, sleeping facilities or any combination thereof that is intended and
used for single family occupancy.
   SEWER MAIN. Any line six inches or larger lying within a dedicated street
right-of-way or dedicated utility easement which conveys waste from sewer
service lines, beginning at the tap.
   SEWER SERVICE LINE. That part of the sewer line extending from the property
line to the main, including the tap.
   TAP. The actual connection to the sewer main.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.086  SERVICE PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for anyone to make any connection to the town sewer
system without first obtaining a permit from the town and paying all required
fees.
   (B)   All requests for sewer service shall be in writing on forms furnished
by the town.
   (C)   Customers for town sewer service shall be current on the mandatory
minimum water charge, if required, or connected to the town water system if
available before sewer service will be allowed.
   (D)   Sewer service will not be available outside the town limits unless the
property owner has formally requested annexation by the town or service is
approved by the Director of Public Works.
   (E)   All newly constructed real property shall connect to the town sewer
system if available before occupancy is allowed.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.087  SEWER TAP FEES.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, the town shall charge
and collect the following fees for making sewer taps into its sewer system: 
All sewer taps will be the responsibility of the land owner and will be
permitted when the correct permit and inspection fee has been paid to the town
according to the town fee schedule.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.088  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to install, repair or relocate any sewer
service line.
   (B)   All work shall be inspected and approved by the town before being
covered.
   (C)   All new sewer service lines shall be installed to the town’s
construction specifications.
   (D)   All sewer service lines shall be installed at the center of the lot as
measured perpendicular to the property line unless otherwise approved by the
Town Administrator.
   (E)   Sewer service lines shall be sized in accordance with the town’s
plumbing code.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.089  MINIMUM MONTHLY CHARGE.
   (A)   There is established a mandatory minimum monthly charge for all
occupied improved real property or properties to which sewer service is
available, whether the premises is connected or not connected to the sewer
main.
   (B)   Each occupied residential unit and each occupied commercial unit shall
be charged a minimum charge or minimum charge plus a volume charge, whichever
is greater.
   (C)   Apartments on one meter shall be charged minimum sewer charges based
on 90% of total living units served by that meter or required minimum plus a
volume charge, whichever is greater.
   (D)   Mobile home parks on one meter shall be charged a minimum sewer charge
based on 90% of actual mobile home and/or travel trailer spaces served by that
meter or the required minimum plus volume charge, whichever is greater.
   (E)   Hotel, motel, inn or lodging house units on one meter shall be charged
a minimum charge based on 90% of total units under the same ownership or a
minimum charge plus a volume charge in combination with other units on the same
sewer tap, whichever is greater.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.090  PRIVATE SEWER FACILITIES.
   It is unlawful for anyone to construct, maintain or operate a private sewer
facility within the town other than a connection to the POTW unless it meets
the following criteria:
   (A)   The private sewer facility shall meet the requirements of the Texas
Department of Health rules and regulations as contained in Construction
Standards for On-Site Sewage Facilities.
   (B)   All new private sewer facilities or any part thereof may not be
constructed on property within 100 feet of any town sewer main.
   (C)   Existing private sewer facilities may continue in operation if the
system conforms to §
53.006(A) of this code.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
CONNECTIONS TO UTILITIES
§ 53.100  UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to serve or connect any
new building or structure, or any part thereof, for either temporary or
permanent use of the owner, builder or purchaser of the new building or
structure with any public utility, including water, sewer, electricity, power,
gas or any other like service which may be owned, controlled or distributed by
the town or any public utility company operating within the town limits, unless
authorized in writing by the town. It shall be unnecessary to procure the
authorization from the town as provided for in this section in the event that
the owner, builder or purchaser of such new building or structure shall present
to the public utility a building permit issued by the town.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)  Penalty, see §
53.999
DEPOSITS FOR PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 53.110  GENERALLY.
   From and after the effective date of this subchapter, the town shall receive
from each sewer, water and garbage customer an initial deposit as provided for
in the town fee schedule. For the purposes of water accounts, each meter shall
be considered a separate account and shall require a separate deposit.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.111  OUTSIDE THE TOWN LIMITS.
   The City Council has determined that the town incurs more expenses in
servicing sewer and water customers living outside its corporate town limits;
therefore, the deposit for such service shall be as provided for in the town
fee schedule.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.112  ADDITIONAL DEPOSITS.
   The town may collect an additional deposit not to exceed the amount of the
initial deposit, from the following customers:
   (A)   A customer who has been disconnected for nonpayment of their utility
service;
   (B)   A customer who has received late notices in four of the previous 12
months.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.113  EXCEPTIONS.
   The owner of rental property shall be exempt from the deposits required by
§§
53.110 and
53.111 when initiating service on a particular rental property if:
   (A)   The property is vacant;
   (B)   The owner is not in violation of any provision of, or delinquent in,
the payment of any fees or charges imposed by this chapter; and
   (C)   The owner executes a contract with the town containing the following
terms and conditions:
      (1)   Statements for water service, sewer service, and garbage service
furnished by the town to the rental property will be paid in conformance with
the appropriate rate ordinances of the town;
      (2)   The owner shall notify the town immediately when the property is
leased; and
      (3)   If the owner fails to notify the town that the property has been
leased, the owner will be responsible for all water, sewer and garbage fees
incurred by the tenant.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 53.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   From and after the date of publication of the ordinance codified in
this chapter, any person, firm or corporation, partnership, association, or any
agent or employees thereof, who shall violate any of the rules, regulations or
provisions of this chapter, or any part of it, or portion thereof, by any act,
either of omission or commission, or cause same to be done, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed $2,000 for each and every such violation. Each violation of
each part of this chapter shall be and constitute a separate offense, and where
such violation is a continued act, each day such violation is continued or
permitted to continue shall be and constitute a separate offense and punishable
accordingly.
   (B)   But in case of any willful or continued violation of the terms,
conditions and provisions of this chapter, the town, in addition to imposing
the penalties above provided, may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings in any court having jurisdiction to retrain, correct or abate such
violation; and the definition of any violation of the terms, conditions and
provisions of this chapter as a misdemeanor shall not preclude the town from
invoking the civil remedies given it by the laws of the state, but same shall
be cumulative and subject to the prosecution as hereinabove prescribed for such
violation.
   (C)   The violation of any provision of §§
53.035 through
53.046 relating to the pretreatment, disposition or discharge of an abnormal
sewage surcharge shall be deemed an offense. Any person who is found guilty of
any violation of the provisions of that subchapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $2,000. Each day of
violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 345, passed 3-21-2013)
CHAPTER 54:  STORMWATER
Section
   
54.01   General provisions
   
54.02   General prohibition
   
54.03   Specific prohibitions and requirements
   
54.04   Release reporting and cleanup
   
54.05   Stormwater discharges from construction activities
   
54.06   Stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity
   
54.07   Compliance monitoring
   
54.08   Citizen participation (and publication)
   
54.09   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
54.10   Right to reconsideration, hearing and appeal
   
54.11   Judicial enforcement remedies
   
54.12   Supplemental enforcement action
   
54.13   Miscellaneous provisions
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purposes.  The purposes and objectives of this chapter are as follows:
      (1)   Maintain and improve the quality of surface water and groundwater
within the town, the North Central Texas Region and the state.
      (2)   Prevent the discharge of contaminated stormwater runoff from
industrial, commercial, residential and construction sites into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) and natural waters within the town.
      (3)   Promote public awareness of the hazards involved in the improper
discharge of hazardous substances, petroleum products, household hazardous
waste, industrial waste, sediment from construction sites, pesticides,
herbicides, fertilizers and other contaminants into the storm sewers and
natural waters of the city.
      (4)   Encourage recycling of used motor oil and safe disposal of other
hazardous consumer products.
      (5)   Facilitate compliance with state and federal standards and permits
by owners and operators of industrial and construction sites within the city.
      (6)   Enable the city to comply with all federal and state laws and
regulations applicable to stormwater discharges.
   (B)   Administration.  Except as otherwise provided herein, the Town
Administrator, the Building Inspector or whoever designated shall administer,
implement and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted to or
duties imposed upon the city engineer may be delegated by the city engineer to
other city personnel.
   (C)   Abbreviations.  The following abbreviations when used in this chapter
shall have the designated meanings:
      BMP.   Best Management Practices.
      BTEX.   Benzene, Toluene, Ethylbenzene, and Xylene.
      CFR.   Code of Federal Regulations.
      EPA.   U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
      HHW.   Hazardous Household Waste.
      mg/l.   Milligrams per liter.
      MS4.   Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System.
      NOI.   Notice of Intent.
      NOT.   Notice of Termination.
      NPDES.   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      Ppb.   Parts per billion.
      PST.   Petroleum Storage Tank.
      RLA.   Registered Landscape Architect.
      RPE.   Registered Professional Engineer.
      RQ.   Reportable Quantity.
      SWPPP.   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
      TPH.   Total Petroleum Hydrocarbons.
      USC.   United States Code.
   (D)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this chapter the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL STORMWATER RUNOFF.   Any stormwater runoff from orchards,
cultivated crops, pastures, range lands and other non-point source agricultural
activities, but not discharges from concentrated animal feeding operations as
defined in 40 CFR § 122.23 or discharges from concentrated aquatic animal
production facilities as defined in 40 CFR § 122.24.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP).   Schedules of activities, prohibitions
of practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to prevent
or reduce the pollution of waters of the United States. BMPs also include
treatment requirements, operating procedures and practices to control plant
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal or drainage from raw
material storage.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR.   The person appointed to the position of Building
Inspector by the City Council of the Town of Lakeside, or his or her duly
authorized representative.
      CITY.   The Town of Lakeside, Texas, or the City Council of Lakeside.
      CITY ENGINEER.   The person appointed to the position of city engineer by
the City Council of the Town of Lakeside, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
      COAL PILE RUNOFF.   The rainfall runoff from or through any coal storage
pile.
      COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION.   The disturbance of soils associated with
clearing, grading or excavating activities or other construction activities.
      COMMERCIAL.   Pertaining to any business, trade, industry or other
activity engaged in for profit.
      DISCHARGE.   Any addition or introduction of any pollutant, stormwater or
any other substance whatsoever into the municipal separate storm sewer system
(MS4) or into waters of the United States.
      DISCHARGER.   Any person who causes, allows, permits or is otherwise
responsible for a discharge, including without limitation any operator of a
construction site or industrial facility.
      DOMESTIC SEWAGE.   Human excrement, gray water (from home clothes
washing, bathing, showers, dishwashing and food preparation), other wastewater
from household drains, and waterborne waste normally discharged from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels),
office buildings, factories and institutions, that is free from industrial
waste.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA).   The United States Environmental
Protection Agency, the regional office thereof, any federal department, agency
or commission that may succeed to the authority of the EPA, and any duly
authorized official of EPA or such successor agency.
      EXTREMELY HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE.   Any substance listed in the Appendices
to 40 CFR Part 355, Emergency Planning and Notification.
      FACILITY.   Any building, structure, installation, process or activity
from which there is or may be a discharge of a pollutant.
      FERTILIZER.   A solid or non-solid substance or compound that contains an
essential plant nutrient element in a form available to plants and is used
primarily for its essential plant nutrient element content in promoting or
stimulating growth of a plant or improving the quality of a crop, or a mixture
of two or more fertilizers. The term does not include the excreta of an animal,
plant remains or a mixture of those substances, for which no claim of essential
plant nutrients is made.
      FINAL STABILIZATION.   The status when all soil disturbing activities at
a site have been completed, and a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a
density of 70% of the cover for unpaved areas and areas not covered by
permanent structures has been established, or equivalent permanent
stabilization measures (such as the use of riprap, gabions, or geotextiles)
have been employed.
      FIRE DEPARTMENT.   The Fire Department of the Town of Lakeside, or any
duly authorized representative thereof.
      FIRE PROTECTION WATER.   Any water and any substances or materials
contained therein used by any person other than the Fire Department to control
or extinguish a fire.
      GARBAGE.   Putrescible animal and vegetable waste materials from the
handling, preparation, cooking or consumption of food, including waste
materials from markets, storage facilities and the handling and sale of produce
and other food products.
      HARMFUL QUANTITY.   The amount of any substance that will cause pollution
of water in the state.
      HAZARDOUS HOUSEHOLD WASTE (HHW).   Any material generated in a household
(including single and multiple residences, hotels and motels, bunk houses,
ranger stations, crew quarters, camp grounds, picnic grounds, and day use
recreational areas) by a consumer which, except for the exclusion provided in
40 CFR § 261.4(b)(1), would be classified as a hazardous waste under 40 CFR
Part 261.
      HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE.   Any substance listed in Table 302.4 of 40 CFR Part
302.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE.   Any substance identified or listed as a hazardous
waste by the EPA pursuant to 40 CFR Part 261.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT, DISPOSAL AND RECOVERY FACILITY.   All
contiguous land and structures, other appurtenances and improvements on the
land, used for the treatment, disposal or recovery of hazardous waste.
      HERBICIDE.   A substance or mixture of substances used to destroy a plant
or to inhibit plant growth.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE.   Any waterborne liquid or solid substance that results
from any process of industry, manufacturing, mining, production, trade or
business.
      MOTOR VEHICLE FUEL.   Any vehicle crankcase oil, antifreeze, transmission
fluid, brake fluid, differential lubricant, gasoline, diesel fuel, gasoline/
alcohol blend and any other fluid used in a motor vehicle.
      MUNICIPAL LANDFILL (OR LANDFILL).   An area of land or an excavation in
which municipal solid waste is placed for permanent disposal, and which is not
a land treatment facility, a surface impoundment, an injection well or a pile
(as these terms are defined in regulations promulgated by the Texas Water
Commission).
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4).   The system of conveyances
(including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch basins, curbs,
gutters, ditches, man-made channels or storm drains) owned and operated by the
city and designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater and which is
not used for collecting or conveying sewage.
      MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE.   Solid waste resulting from or incidental to
municipal, community, commercial, institutional or recreational activities, and
includes garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals, abandoned
automobiles and other solid waste other than industrial waste.
      NPDES GENERAL PERMIT FOR STORMWATER DISCHARGES ASSOCIATED WITH INDUSTRIAL
ACTIVITY (OR INDUSTRIAL GENERAL PERMIT).   The industrial general permit issued
by EPA on August 27, 1992, and published in Volume 57 of the Federal Register
at page 45304 on September 9, 1992, and any subsequent modifications or
amendments thereto.
      NPDES GENERAL PERMIT FOR STORMWATER DISCHARGES FROM CONSTRUCTION SITES
(OR CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PERMIT).   The Construction General Permit issued by
EPA on August 27, 1992, and published in Volume 57 of the Federal Register at
page 41217 on September 9, 1992, and any subsequent modifications or amendments
thereto.
      NPDES PERMIT.   A permit issued by EPA (or by the state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 5342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group or general area-wide basis.
      NON-POINT SOURCE.   Any source of any discharge of a pollutant that is
not a "point source."
      NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI).   The notice of intent that is required by either
the industrial general permit or the construction general permit.
      NOTICE OF TERMINATION (NOT).   The notice of termination that is required
by either the industrial general permit or the construction general permit.
      OIL.   Any kind of oil in any form, including but not limited to
petroleum, fuel oil, crude oil or any fraction thereof which is liquid at
standard conditions of temperature and pressure, sludge, oil refuse and oil
mixed with waste.
      OPERATOR.   The person or persons who, either individually or taken
together, meet the following two criteria: (1) they have operational control
over the facility specifications (including the ability to make modifications
in specifications); and (2) they have the day-to-day operational control over
those activities at the facility necessary to ensure compliance with pollution
prevention requirements and any permit conditions.
      OWNER.   The person who owns a facility or part of a facility.
      PERSON.   Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns. This definition includes all federal, state and local governmental
entities.
      PESTICIDE.   A substance or mixture of substances intended to prevent,
destroy, repel or mitigate any pest, or any substance or mixture of substances
intended for use as a plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant (as these terms
are defined in Tex. Agriculture Code § 76.001).
      PETROLEUM PRODUCT.   A petroleum product that is obtained from distilling
and processing crude oil and that is capable of being used as a fuel for the
propulsion of a motor vehicle or aircraft, including motor gasoline, gasohol,
other alcohol blended fuels, aviation gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oil,
and # 1 and # 2 diesel. The term does not include naphtha-type jet fuel,
kerosene-type jet fuel or a petroleum product destined for use in chemical
manufacturing or feedstock of that manufacturing.
      PETROLEUM STORAGE TANK (PST).   Any one or combination of aboveground or
underground storage tanks that contain petroleum products and any connecting
underground pipes.
      POINT SOURCE.   Any discernable, confined and discrete conveyance,
including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding
operation, landfill leachate collection system, vessel or other floating craft
from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include
return flows from irrigated agriculture or agricultural stormwater runoff.
      POLLUTANT.   Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical waste, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged into water.
The term POLLUTANT does not include tail water or runoff water from irrigation
or rainwater runoff from cultivated or uncultivated range land, pasture land
and farm land.
      POLLUTION.   The alteration of the physical, thermal, chemical or
biological quality of, or the contamination of, any water in the state that
renders the water harmful, detrimental or injurious to humans, animal life,
vegetation, or property, or to the public health, safety or welfare, or impairs
the usefulness or the public enjoyment of the water for any lawful or
reasonable purpose.
      QUALIFIED PERSONNEL.   Persons who possess the appropriate competence,
skills and ability (as demonstrated by sufficient education, training,
experience, and/or, when applicable, any required certification or licensing)
to perform a specific activity in a timely and complete manner consistent with
the applicable regulatory requirements and generally accepted industry
standards for such activity.
      REGISTERED LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT (RLA).   A person who has been duly
licensed and registered to practice landscape architecture by the Texas Board
of Architectural Examiners.
      REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER (RPE).   A person who has been duly
licensed and registered by the State Board of Registration for Professional
Engineers to engage in the practice of engineering in the State of Texas.
      RELEASE.   Any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing into the
municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) or the waters of the United States.
      REPORTABLE QUANTITY (RQ).   For any "hazardous substance," the quantity
established and listed in Table 302.4 of 40 CFR Part 302; for any "extremely
hazardous substance," the quantity established in 40 CFR Part 355 and listed in
Appendix A thereto.
      RUBBISH.   Nonputrescible solid waste, excluding ashes, that consist of:
(1) combustible waste materials, including paper, rags, cartons, wood,
excelsior, furniture, rubber, plastics, yard trimmings, leaves, and similar
materials; and (2) noncombustible waste materials, including glass, crockery,
tin cans, aluminum cans, metal furniture and similar materials that do not burn
at ordinary incinerator temperatures (1600 to 1800 degrees Fahrenheit).
      SANITARY SEWER (OR SEWER).   The system of pipes, conduits and other
conveyances which carry industrial waste and domestic sewage from residential
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial and manufacturing facilities, and
institutions, whether treated or untreated, to the city sewage treatment plant
(and to which stormwater, surface water and groundwater are not intentionally
admitted).
      SEPTIC TANK WASTE.   Any domestic sewage from holding tanks such as
vessels, chemical toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
      SERVICE STATION.   Any retail establishment engaged in the business of
selling fuel for motor vehicles that is dispensed from stationary storage
tanks.
      SEWAGE (OR SANITARY SEWAGE).   The domestic sewage and/or industrial
waste that is discharged into the city sanitary sewer system and passes through
the sanitary sewer system to the city sewage treatment plant for treatment.
      SITE.   The land or water area where any facility or activity is
physically located or conducted, including adjacent land used in connection
with the facility or activity.
      SOLID WASTE.   Any garbage, rubbish, refuse, sludge from a waste
treatment plant, water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control
facility, and other discarded material, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or
contained gaseous material resulting from industrial, municipal, commercial,
mining and agricultural operations, and from community and institutional
activities.
      STATE.   The State of Texas.
      STORMWATER.   Stormwater runoff, snow melt runoff and surface runoff and
drainage.
      STORMWATER DISCHARGE ASSOCIATED WITH INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.   The discharge
from any conveyance which is used for collecting and conveying stormwater and
which is directly related to manufacturing, processing or raw materials storage
areas at an industrial plant which is within one of the categories of
facilities listed in 40 CFR § 122.26(b)(14), and which is not excluded from
EPA's definition of the same term.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP).   A plan required by either
the construction general permit or the industrial general permit and which
describes and ensures the implementation of practices that are to be used to
reduce the pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with construction or
other industrial activity at the facility.
      UNCONTAMINATED.   Not containing a harmful quantity of any substance.
      USED OIL (OR USED MOTOR OIL).   Any oil that has been refined from crude
oil or a synthetic oil that, as a result of use, storage, or handling, has
become unsuitable for its original purpose because of impurities or the loss of
original properties but that may be suitable for further use and is recyclable
in compliance with state and federal law.
      WATER IN THE STATE (OR WATER).   Any groundwater, percolating or
otherwise, lakes, bays, ponds, impounding reservoirs, springs, rivers, streams,
creeks, estuaries, marshes, inlets, canals, the Gulf of Mexico, inside the
territorial limits of the state and all other bodies of surface water, natural
or artificial, inland or coastal, fresh or salt, navigable or non-navigable,
and including the beds and banks of all water courses and bodies of surface
water, that are wholly or partially inside or bordering the state or inside the
jurisdiction of the state.
      WATER QUALITY STANDARD.   The designation of a body or segment of surface
water in the state for desirable uses and the narrative and numerical criteria
deemed by the state to be necessary to protect those uses, as specified in Tex.
Administrative Code Title 31, Ch. 307.
      WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES.   All waters which are currently used, were
used in the past or may be susceptible to use in interstate or foreign
commerce, including all waters which are subject to the ebb and flow of the
tide; all interstate waters, including interstate wetlands; all other waters
the use, degradation or destruction of which would affect or could affect
interstate or foreign commerce; all impoundment's of waters otherwise defined
as waters of the United States under this definition; all tributaries of waters
identified in this definition; all wetlands adjacent to waters identified in
this definition; and any waters within the federal definition of "waters of the
United States" at 40 CFR § 122.2; but not including any waste treatment
systems, treatment ponds, or lagoons designed to meet the requirements of the
federal Clean Water Act.
      WETLAND.   An area that is inundated or saturated by surface or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances does support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps,
marshes, bogs and similar areas.
      YARD WASTE.   Leaves, grass clippings, yard and garden debris, and brush
that results from landscaping maintenance and land-clearing operations.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.02  GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the municipal
separate storm sewer system (MS4) any discharge that is not composed entirely
of stormwater.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to any enforcement action for violation
of division (A) above that the discharge was composed entirely of one or more
of the following categories of discharges:
      (1)   A discharge authorized by, and in full compliance with, an NPDES
permit (other than the NPDES permit for discharges from the MS4);
      (2)   A discharge or flow resulting from fire fighting by the Fire
Department;
      (3)   A discharge or flow of fire protection water that does not contain
oil or hazardous substances or materials (that the fire code in this code of
ordinances requires to be contained and treated prior to discharge, in which
case treatment adequate to remove harmful quantities of pollutants must have
occurred prior to discharge);
      (4)   Agricultural stormwater runoff;
      (5)   A discharge or flow from water line flushing, but not including a
discharge from water line disinfection by superchlorination or other means
unless the total residual chlorine (TRC) has been reduced to contain no harmful
quantity of chlorine or any other chemical used in line disinfection;
      (6)   A discharge or flow from lawn watering or landscape irrigation or
other irrigation water;
      (7)   A discharge or flow from a diverted stream flow or natural spring;
      (8)   A discharge or flow from uncontaminated pumped groundwater or
rising groundwater;
      (9)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration (as defined as 40 CFR §
35.2005(20) to the MS4;
      (10)   Uncontaminated discharge or flow from a foundation drain, crawl
space pump, footing drain or sump pump;
      (11)   A discharge or flow from a potable water source not containing any
harmful substance or material from the cleaning or draining of a storage tank
or other container;
      (12)   A discharge or flow from air conditioning condensation that is
unmixed with water from a cooling tower, emissions scrubber, emissions filter
or any other source of pollutant;
      (13)   A discharge or flow from individual residential car washing;
      (14)   A discharge or flow from a riparian habitat or wetland;
      (15)   A discharge or flow from water used in street washing that is not
contaminated with any soap, detergent, degreaser, solvent, emulsifier,
dispersant or any other harmful cleaning substance;
      (16)   Stormwater runoff from a roof that is not contaminated by any
runoff or discharge from an emissions scrubber or filter or any other source of
pollutant; or
      (17)   Swimming pool water that has been dechlorinated so that total
residual chlorine (TRC) contains no harmful quantity of chlorine, muriatic acid
or other chemical used in the treatment or disinfection of the swimming pool
water or in pool cleaning.
   (C)   No affirmative defense shall be available under division (B) above if
the discharge or flow in question has been determined by the Town Administrator
to be a source of a pollutant or pollutants to the waters of the United States
or to the MS4, written notice of such determination has been provided to the
discharger and the discharge has occurred more than 15 days beyond such notice.
The correctness of the Town Administrator determination that a discharge is a
source of a pollutant or pollutants may be reviewed in any administrative or
judicial enforcement proceeding.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.03  SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The specific prohibitions and requirements in this section are not
inclusive of all the discharges prohibited by the general prohibition in §
54.02.
   (B)   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4 any
discharge that causes or contributes to causing the city to violate a water
quality standard, the city's NPDES permit or any state-issued discharge permit
for discharges from its MS4.
   (C)   No person shall dump, spill, leak, pump, pour, emit, empty, discharge,
leach, dispose or otherwise introduce or cause, allow or permit to be
introduced any of the following substances into the MS4:
      (1)   Any used motor oil, antifreeze or any other motor vehicle fluid;
      (2)   Any industrial waste;
      (3)   Any hazardous waste, including hazardous household waste;
      (4)   Any domestic sewage or septic tank waste, grease trap waste or grit
trap waste;
      (5)   Any garbage, rubbish or yard waste;
      (6)   Any wastewater from a commercial carwash facility; from any vehicle
washing, cleaning or maintenance at any new or used automobile or other vehicle
dealership, rental agency, body shop, repair shop or maintenance facility; or
from any washing, cleaning or maintenance of any business or commercial or
public service vehicle, including a truck, bus or heavy equipment, by a
business or public entity that operates more than two such vehicles;
      (7)   Any wastewater from the washing, cleaning, de-icing or other
maintenance of aircraft;
      (8)   Any wastewater from a commercial mobile power washer or from the
washing or other cleaning of a building exterior that contains any soap,
detergent, degreaser, solvent or any other harmful cleaning substance;
      (9)   Any wastewater from floor, rug or carpet cleaning;
      (10)   Any wastewater from the washdown or other cleaning of pavement
that contains any harmful quantity of soap, detergent, solvent, degreaser,
emulsifier, dispersant or any other harmful cleaning substance; or any
wastewater from the washdown or other cleaning of any pavement where any spill,
leak or other release of oil, motor fuel or other petroleum or hazardous
substance has occurred, unless all harmful quantities of such released material
have been previously removed;
      (11)   Any effluent from a cooling tower, condenser, compressor,
emissions scrubber, emissions filter or the blowdown from a boiler;
      (12)   Any ready-mixed concrete, mortar, ceramic or asphalt base material
or hydromulch material, or from the cleaning of vehicles or equipment
containing, or used in transporting or applying such material;
      (13)   Any runoff or washdown water from any animal pen, kennel or fowl
or livestock containment area;
      (14)   Any filter backwash from a swimming pool, fountain or spa;
      (15)   Any swimming pool water containing any harmful quantity of
chlorine, muriatic acid or other chemical used in the treatment or disinfection
of the swimming pool water or in pool cleaning;
      (16)   Any discharge from water line disinfection by superchlorination or
other means if the total residual chlorine (TRC) contains any harmful quantity
of chlorine or any other chemical used in line disinfection;
      (17)   Any fire protection water containing oil or hazardous substances
or materials that the fire code in this code of ordinances requires to be
contained and treated prior to discharge, unless treatment adequate to remove
pollutants occurs prior to discharge. (This prohibition does not apply to
discharges or flow from fire fighting by the Fire Department);
      (18)   Any water from a water curtain in a spray room used for painting
vehicles or equipment;
      (19)   Any contaminated runoff from a vehicle wrecking yard;
      (20)   Any substance or material that will damage, block or clog the MS4;
      (21)   Any release from a petroleum storage tank (PST), or any leachate
or runoff from soil contaminated by a leaking PST or any discharge of pumped,
confined, or treated wastewater from the remediation of any such PST release,
unless the discharge satisfies all of the following criteria:
         (a)   Compliance with all state and federal standards and
requirements;
         (b)   No discharge containing a harmful quantity of any pollutant; and
         (c)   No discharge containing more than 50 parts per billion of
benzene; 500 parts per billion combined total quantities of benzene, toluene,
ethylbenzene and xylene (BTEX); or 15 mg/l of total petroleum hydrocarbons
(TPH).
   (D)   No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the MS4 any
harmful quantity of sediment, silt, earth, soil or other material associated
with clearing, grading, excavation or other construction activities, or
associated with landfilling or other placement or disposal of soil, rock or
other earth materials, in excess of what could be retained on site or captured
by employing sediment and erosion control measures to the maximum extent
practicable under prevailing circumstances.
   (E)   No person shall connect a line conveying sanitary sewage, domestic or
industrial, to the MS4 or allow such a connection to continue.
   (F)   No person shall cause or allow any pavement washwater from a service
station to be discharged into the MS4 unless such washwater has passed through
a properly functioning and maintained, grease, oil and sand interceptor before
discharge into the MS4.
   (G)   Regulation of pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers.
      (1)   Any sale, distribution, application, labeling, manufacture,
transportation, storage or disposal of a pesticide, herbicide or fertilizer
must comply fully with all state and federal statutes and regulations including
without limitation the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act
(FIFRA) and all federal regulations promulgated pursuant to FIFRA; Tex.
Agriculture Code Chs. 63, 75 and 76 and all state regulations promulgated
pursuant thereto; and any other state or federal requirement.
      (2)   Any license, permit, registration, certification or evidence of
financial responsibility required by state or federal law for sale,
distribution, application, manufacturer, transportation, storage or disposal of
a pesticide, herbicide or fertilizer must be presented to the Town
Administrator or his or her delegate and any city law enforcement officer for
examination upon request.
      (3)   No person shall use or cause to be used any pesticide or herbicide
contrary to any directions for use on any labeling required by state or federal
statute or regulation.
      (4)   No person shall use or cause to be used any pesticide, herbicide or
fertilizer in any manner that the person knows, or reasonably should know, is
likely to cause or does cause a harmful quantity of the pesticide, herbicide or
fertilizer to enter the MS4 or waters of the United States.
      (5)   No person shall dispose of, discard, store or transport a
pesticide, herbicide or fertilizer, or a pesticide, herbicide or fertilizer
container in a manner that the person knows or reasonably should know, is
likely to cause or does cause, a harmful quantity of the pesticide, herbicide
or fertilizer to enter the MS4 or waters of the United States.
      (6)   If provided with a display notice containing the provisions of this
section, pertaining to the regulation of pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers
(or a reasonable description thereof), and the information that any user of the
product may obtain further information from the Town Administrator any person
selling pesticides, herbicides or fertilizers at retail or wholesale shall post
the notice prominently where it may be read by purchasers of the product.
   (H)   Used oil regulation.  No person shall:
      (1)   Discharge used oil into the MS4 or a sewer, drainage system, septic
tank, surface water, groundwater or water course.
      (2)   Knowingly mix or commingle used oil with solid waste that is to be
disposed of in a landfill or knowingly directly dispose of used oil on land or
in a landfill.
      (3)   Apply used oil to a road or land for dust suppression, weed
abatement or other similar use that introduces used oil into the environment.
      (4)   All businesses that change motor oil for the public, municipal
waste landfills and fire stations are encouraged to serve as public used oil
collection centers as provided by state statute in Tex. Health and Safety Code
§ 371.024.
      (5)   A retail dealer who annually sells directly to the public oil in
containers for use off-premises shall post in a prominent place a sign provided
by the city or by the state informing the public that improper disposal of used
oil is prohibited by law. The sign shall prominently display the toll-free
telephone number of the state used oil information center. If a sign is
provided by the city, it shall also prominently display the city telephone
number where information concerning the proper disposal of used oil may be
obtained.
   (I)   Any prohibitions or requirements deemed necessary to carry out any
"hazardous household waste" collection program that the city chooses to adopt
(in compliance with the wishes of Region 6 expressed in its draft, draft
permit); for example, requirements that household hazardous waste be segregated
from other household waste, be discarded only at certain specified locations
and/or be placed at curbside for collection only at specified times. Certain
containers and security measures might also be required. Caution: Any hazardous
household waste program must comply with Tex. Administrative Code Title 31, Ch.
330, Subch. L.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.04  RELEASE REPORTING AND CLEANUP.
   (A)   The person in charge of any facility, vehicle or other source of any
spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, discharging, escaping,
leaching, dumping, disposing or any other release of any of the following
quantities of any of the following substances that may flow, leach, enter or
otherwise be introduced into the MS4 or waters of the United States, shall
immediately telephone and notify the Town Administrator concerning the
incident:
      (1)   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
hazardous substance, as established under 40 CFR Part 302;
      (2)   An amount equal to or in excess of a reportable quantity of any
extremely hazardous substance, as established under 40 CFR Part 355;
      (3)   An amount of oil that either:
         (a)   Violates applicable water quality standards; or
         (b)   Causes a film or sheen upon or discoloration of the surface of
the water or an adjoining shoreline or causes a sludge or emulsion to be
deposited beneath the surface of the water or upon an adjoining shoreline; or
      (4)   Any harmful quantity of any pollutant.
   (B)   The immediate notification required by division (A) shall include the
following information:
      (1)   The identity or chemical name of the substance released and whether
the substance is an extremely hazardous substance;
      (2)   The exact location of the release, including any known name of the
waters involved or threatened and any other environmental media affected;
      (3)   The time and duration (thus far) of the release;
      (4)   An estimate of the quantity and concentration (if known) of the
substance released;
      (5)   The source of the release;
      (6)   Any known or anticipated health risks associated with the release
and where appropriate, advice regarding medical attention that may be necessary
for exposed individuals;
      (7)   Any precautions that should be taken as a result of the release;
      (8)   Any steps that have been taken to contain and/or clean up the
released material and minimize its impacts; and
      (9)   The names and telephone numbers of the person or persons to be
contacted for further information.
   (C)   Within 15 days following such release, the responsible person in
charge of the facility, vehicle or other source of the release shall, unless
waived by the Town Administrator, submit a written report containing each of
the items of information specified above in division (B), as well as the
following additional information:
      (1)   The ultimate duration, concentration and quantity of the release;
      (2)   All actions taken to respond to, contain and clean up the released
substances, and all precautions taken to minimize the impacts;
      (3)   Any known or anticipated acute or chronic health risks associated
with the release;
      (4)   Where appropriate, advice regarding medical attention necessary for
exposed individuals;
      (5)   The identity of any governmental/private sector representatives
responding to the release; and
      (6)   The measures taken or to be taken by the responsible person(s) to
prevent similar future occurrences.
   (D)   The notifications required by divisions (B) and (C) shall not relieve
the responsible person of any expense, loss, damage or other liability which
may be incurred as a result of the release, including any liability for damage
to the city, to natural resources or to any other person or property; nor shall
such notification relieve the responsible person of any fine, penalty or other
liability which may be imposed pursuant to this chapter or to state or federal
law.
   (E)   Any person responsible for any release as described in division (A)
above shall comply with all state, federal and any other local law requiring
reporting, cleanup, containment and any other appropriate remedial action in
response to the release.
   (F)   Any person responsible for a release described in division (A) above
shall reimburse the city for any cost incurred by the city in responding to the
release.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.05  STORMWATER DISCHARGES FROM CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   All operators of construction sites shall use best management
practices to control and reduce the discharge, to the MS4 and to waters of the
United States, of sediment, silt, earth, soil and other material associated
with the clearing, grading, excavation and other construction activities to the
maximum extent practicable under the circumstances. Such best management
practices may include but not be limited to the following measures:
         (a)   Ensuring that existing vegetation is preserved where feasible,
and that disturbed portions of the site are stabilized as soon as practicable
in portions of the site where construction activities have temporarily or
permanently ceased. Stabilization measures may include: temporary seeding,
permanent seeding, mulching, geotextiles, sod stabilization, vegetative buffer
strips, protection of trees, preservation of mature vegetation and other
appropriate measures;
         (b)   Use of structural practices to divert flows from exposed soils,
store flows or otherwise limit runoff and the discharge of pollutants from the
site to the extent feasible;
         (c)   Minimization of the tracking of sediments off-site by vehicles,
the generation of dust and the escape of other windblown waste from the site;
         (d)   Prevention of the discharge of building materials, including
cement, lime, concrete and mortar to the MS4 or waters of the United States;
         (e)   Providing general good housekeeping measures to prevent and
contain spills of paints, solvents, fuels, septic waste and other hazardous
chemicals and pollutants associated with construction, and to assure proper
cleanup and disposal of any such spills in compliance with state, federal and
local requirements;
         (f)   Implementation of proper waste disposal and waste management
techniques, including covering waste materials and minimizing ground contact
with hazardous chemicals and trash;
         (g)   Timely maintenance of vegetation, erosion and sediment control
measures, and other best management practices in good and effective operating
condition; and
         (h)   Installation of structural measures during the construction
process to control pollutants in stormwater discharges that will occur after
construction operations have been completed. Structural measures should be
placed on upland soils to the degree attainable. Such installed structural
measures may include but not be limited to the following: stormwater detention
structures (including wet ponds); stormwater retention structures; flow
attenuation by use of open vegetative swales and natural depressions; other
velocity dissipation devices; infiltration of runoff on site; and sequential
systems which combine several practices. Operators of construction sites are
only responsible for the installation and maintenance of stormwater management
measures prior to final stabilization of the site and are not responsible for
maintenance after stormwater discharges associated with construction activity
have terminated.
      (2)   Qualified personnel (provided by the operator of the construction
site) shall inspect disturbed areas of any construction site that have not been
finally stabilized, areas used for storage of materials that are exposed to
precipitation, structural control measures and locations where vehicles enter
or exit the site at least once every seven calendar days and within 24 hours of
the end of a storm that is 0.5 inches or greater. All erosion and sediment
control measures and other identified best management practices shall be
observed in order to ensure that they are operating correctly and are effective
in preventing significant impacts to receiving waters and the MS4. Based on the
results of the inspection, best management practices shall be revised as
appropriate, and as soon as is practicable.
      (3)   The Building Inspector may require any plans and specifications
that are prepared for the construction of site improvements to illustrate and
describe the best management practices required by division (A)(1) above that
will be implemented at the construction site. The city may deny approval of any
building permit, grading permit, subdivision plat, site development plan or any
other city approval necessary to commence or continue construction, or to
assume occupancy, on the grounds that the management practices described in the
plans or observed upon a site inspection by the Building Inspector are
determined not to control and reduce the discharge of sediment, silt, earth,
soil, and other materials associated with clearing, grading, excavation and
other construction activities to the maximum extent practicable under the
circumstances.
      (4)   Any owner of a site of construction activity, whether or not he or
she is an operator, is jointly and severally responsible for compliance with
the requirements in this division.
      (5)   Any contractor or subcontractor on a site of construction activity
who is not an owner or operator but who is responsible under his or her
contract or subcontract for implementing a best management practices control
measure, is jointly and severally responsible for any willful or negligent
failure on his or her part to adequately implement that control measure if such
failure causes or contributes to causing the city to violate a water quality
standard, the city's NPDES permit, or any state-issued discharge permit for
discharges from its MS4.
   (B)   Five-acre disturbances.
      (1)   All operators of sites of construction activity, including
clearing, grading and excavation activities that result in the disturbance of
five or more acres of total land area, or that are part of a common plan of
development or sale within which five or more acres of total land area are
disturbed (or who are required to obtain an NPDES permit for stormwater
discharges associated with construction activity), shall comply with the
following requirements (in addition to those in division (A)):
         (a)   Any operator who intends to obtain coverage for stormwater
discharges from a construction site under the NPDES general permit for
stormwater discharges from construction sites ("the construction general
permit") shall submit a signed copy of its notice of intent (NOI) to the
Building Inspector at least two days prior to the commencement of construction
activities. If the construction activity is already underway upon the effective
date of this chapter, the NOI shall be submitted within 30 days. For stormwater
discharges from construction sites where the operator changes, an NOI shall be
submitted at least two days prior to when the operator commences work at the
site.
         (b)   A Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) shall be prepared
and implemented in accordance with the requirements of the construction general
permit or any individual or group NPDES permit issued for stormwater discharges
from the construction site, and with any additional requirement imposed by or
under this chapter and any other city ordinance.
      (2)   On a site of more than one acre in total land area (or a site which
is impacted by offsite drainage for more than one acre), the SWPPP shall be
prepared, signed and sealed by a registered professional engineer. The
signature and seal of the registered professional engineer shall constitute his
or her attestation that the SWPPP fully complies with the requirements of the
construction general permit, or with any applicable individual or group NPDES
permit issued for stormwater discharges from the construction site, and with
any additional requirement imposed by or under this chapter. The SWPPP shall
contain the name, title and business address of the registered professional
engineer signing it, and the date that he or she did so.
      (3)   The SWPPP shall be completed prior to the submittal of the NOI to
the Building Inspector and for new construction, prior to the commencement of
construction activities. The SWPPP shall be updated and modified as appropriate
and as required by the construction general permit and this chapter. Any update
or modification to the SWPPP shall be prepared, signed, and sealed by a
registered professional engineer, if the original SWPPP was required by
division (B)(2) above to have been prepared by a registered professional
engineer.
      (4)   A copy of any NOI that is required by division (B)(1)(a) shall be
submitted to the city in conjunction with any application for a building
permit, grading permit, subdivision plat approval, site development plan
approval, and any other city approval necessary to commence or continue
construction at the site.
      (5)   The Building Inspector may require any operator who is required by
division (B)(1)(b) to prepare a SWPPP to submit the SWPPP, and any
modifications thereto, to the Building Inspector for review. Such submittal and
review of the SWPPP may be required by the Building Inspector prior to
commencement of or during construction activities at the site.
      (6)   Upon the Building Inspector review of the SWPPP and any site
inspection that he or she may conduct, the city may deny approval of any
building permit, grading permit, subdivision plat, site development plan or any
other city approval necessary to commence or continue construction or to assume
occupancy on the grounds that the SWPPP does not comply with the requirements
of the construction general permit, any individual or group NPDES permit issued
for stormwater discharge from the construction site, or any additional
requirement imposed by or under this chapter. Also, if at any time the Building
Inspector determines that the SWPPP is not being fully implemented, the city
may similarly deny approval of any building permit, grading permit, subdivision
plat, site development plan or any other city approval necessary to commence or
continue construction or to assume occupancy at the site.
      (7)   Any significant modification to the SWPPP for a site of more than
one acre of total land area (or a site which is impacted by offsite drainage
from more than one acre) shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a registered
professional engineer as required for the original SWPPP by division (B)(2).
      (8)   All contractors and subcontractors identified in an SWPPP shall
sign a copy of the following certification statement before conducting any
professional service identified in the SWPPP:
“I certify under penalty of law that I understand the terms and conditions of
the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit that
authorizes the stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity from
the construction site identified as part of this certification, with the
Stormwater Ordinance of the Town of Lakeside, and with those provisions of the
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) for the construction site for
which I am responsible.”
      (9)   The certification must include the name and title of the person
providing the signature, the name, address, and telephone number of the
contracting firm, the address (or other identifying description) of the site
and the date the certification is made.
      (10)   The SWPPP, with the registered professional engineer's signature
and seal affixed, and the certifications of contractors and subcontractors
required by division (B)(8) above, and with any modifications attached, shall
be retained at the construction site from the date of commencement of
construction through the date of final stabilization.
      (11)   The operator shall make the SWPPP and any modification thereto
available to the Building Inspector upon request as well as to EPA and state
inspectors.
      (12)   The Building Inspector may notify the operator at any time that
the SWPPP does not meet the requirements of the construction general permit,
any applicable individual or group NPDES permit issued for stormwater
discharges from the construction site, or any additional requirement imposed by
or under this chapter. Such notification shall identify those provisions of the
permit or ordinance which are not being met by the SWPPP and identify which
provisions of the SWPPP require modifications in order to meet such
requirements. Within seven days of such notification from the Building
Inspector (or as otherwise provided by the Building Inspector), the operator
shall make the required changes to the SWPPP and shall submit to the Building
Inspector a written certification that the requested changes have been made.
      (13)   The operator shall amend the SWPPP whenever there is a change in
design, construction, operation or maintenance, which has a significant effect
on the potential for the discharge of pollutants to the MS4 or to the waters of
the United States, and which has not otherwise been addressed in the SWPPP, or
if the SWPPP proves to be ineffective in eliminating or significantly
minimizing pollutants, or in otherwise achieving the general objective of
controlling pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with construction
activity. In addition, the SWPPP shall be amended to identify any new
contractor and/or subcontractor that will implement a measure in the SWPPP.
      (14)   Qualified personnel provided by the operator of the construction
site shall inspect disturbed areas of the construction site that have not been
finally stabilized, areas used for storage of materials that are exposed to
precipitation, structural control measures and locations where vehicles enter
or exit the site, at least once every seven calendar days and within 24 hours
of the end of the storm that is 0.5 inches or greater. Disturbed areas and
areas used for storage of materials that are exposed to precipitation shall be
inspected for evidence of, or the potential for pollutants entering the
drainage system. Erosion and sediment control measures identified in the SWPPP
shall be observed to ensure that they are operating correctly. Where discharge
locations or points are accessible, they shall be inspected to ascertain
whether erosion control measures are effective in preventing significant
impacts to receiving waters or the MS4. Locations where vehicles enter or exit
the site shall be inspected for evidence of off-site sediment tracking.
      (15)   Based on the results of the inspections required by (B)(14) above,
the site description and/or the pollution prevention measures identified in the
SWPPP shall be revised as appropriate, but in no case later than seven calendar
days following the inspection. Such modifications shall provide for timely
implementation of any changes to the SWPPP within seven calendar days following
the inspection.
      (16)   A report summarizing the scope of any inspection required by
division (B)(14) above, and the name(s) and qualifications of personnel making
the inspection, the date(s) of the inspection, major observations relating to
the implementation of the SWPPP and actions taken in accordance with division
(B)(15) above shall be made and retained as part of the SWPPP for at least
three years from the date that the site is finally stabilized. Such report
shall identify any incidence of noncompliance. Where a report does not identify
any incidence of noncompliance, the report shall contain a certification that
the facility is in compliance with the SWPPP, the facility's NPDES permit and
this chapter. The report shall be certified and signed by the person
responsible for making it.
      (17)   The operator shall retain copies of any SWPPP and all reports
required by this chapter or by the NPDES permit for the site, and records of
all data used to complete the NOI, for a period of at least three years from
the date that the site is finally stabilized.
      (18)   Where a site has been finally stabilized and all stormwater
discharges from construction activities that are authorized by this chapter and
by the NPDES permit for those construction activities are eliminated, or where
the operator of all stormwater discharges at a facility changes, the operator
of the construction site shall submit to the Building Inspector a notice of
termination (NOT) that includes the information required for notices of
termination by part VIII of the construction general permit.
      (19)   Upon final stabilization of the construction site, the owner (or
the duly authorized representative thereof) shall submit written certification
to the Building Inspector that the site has been finally stabilized. (See
definition of final stabilization in this chapter.) The city may withhold an
occupancy or use permit for any premises constructed on the site until such
certification of final stabilization has been filed and the Building Inspector
has determined, following any appropriate inspection, that final stabilization
has in fact occurred and that any required permanent structural controls have
been completed.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.06  STORMWATER DISCHARGES ASSOCIATED WITH INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.
   (A)   All operators of: (1) municipal landfills; (2) hazardous waste
treatment, disposal and recovery facilities; (3) industrial facilities that are
subject to Section 353 of Title III of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA) 42, USC § 11023; and (4) industrial
facilities that the Town Administrator determines are contributing a
substantial pollutant loading to the MS4, which are sources of stormwater
discharges associated with industrial activity, shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Any operator who intends to obtain coverage for stormwater
discharge associated with industrial activity under the NPDES general permit
for stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity ("the industrial
general permit") shall submit a signed copy of its notice of intent (NOI) to
the Town Administrator at least two days prior to the commencement of the
industrial activity at the facility. If industrial activity is already underway
upon the effective date of this chapter, the NOI shall be submitted within 30
days. Where the operator of a facility with a stormwater discharge associated
with industrial activity which is covered by the industrial general permit
changes, the new operator of the facility shall submit an NOI at least two days
prior to the change.
      (2)   A Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) shall be prepared
and implemented in accordance with the requirements of the industrial general
permit or any individual or group NPDES permit issued for stormwater discharges
from the industrial facility, with any additional requirement imposed by or
under this chapter and any other city ordinance.
      (3)   The SWPPP shall be prepared, signed and sealed by a registered
professional engineer. The signature and seal of the registered professional
engineer shall constitute his or her attestation that the SWPPP fully complies
with the requirements of the industrial general permit, or with any applicable
individual or group NPDES permit issued for stormwater discharges from the
industrial facility, and within any additional requirement imposed by or under
this chapter. The SWPPP shall contain the name, title and business address of
the registered professional engineer signing it and the date that he or she did
so.
      (4)   The SWPPP shall be completed prior to the submittal of the NOI to
the Town Administrator and, for a new industrial operation, prior to the
commencement of the industrial activity at the facility. The SWPPP shall be
updated and modified as appropriate and as required by the industrial general
permit and this chapter. Any update or modification to the SWPPP shall be
prepared, signed and sealed by a registered professional engineer.
      (5)   A copy of any NOI that is required by division (A)(1) shall be
submitted to the city in conjunction with any application for a permit or any
other city approval necessary to commence or continue operation of the
industrial facility.
      (6)   The Town Administrator may require any operator who is required by
division (A)(2) to prepare a SWPPP to submit the SWPPP and any modifications
thereto to the Town Administrator for review. Such submittal and review of the
SWPPP may be required by the Town Administrator prior to commencement of or
during industrial activity at the facility.
      (7)   Upon the Town Administrator review of the SWPPP and any site
inspection that he or she may conduct, the city may deny approval of any
application for a permit or any other city approval necessary to commence or
continue operation of the facility, on the grounds that the SWPPP does not
comply with the requirements of the industrial general permit, any individual
or group NPDES permit issued for stormwater discharges from the industrial
facility, or any additional requirement imposed by or under this chapter. Also,
if at any time the Town Administrator determines that the SWPPP is not being
fully implemented, the city may similarly deny approval of any application for
a permit or other city approval necessary to commence or continue operation of
the industrial facility.
      (8)   Any significant modification to the SWPPP shall be prepared,
signed, and sealed by a registered professional engineer, as required for the
original SWPPP by division (A)(3).
      (9)   The SWPPP, with the registered professional engineer's signature
and seal affixed, and with any modifications attached, shall be retained at the
industrial facility from the date of commencement of operations until all
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity at the facility are
eliminated and the required notice of termination (NOT) has been submitted.
      (10)   The operator shall make the SWPPP and any modification thereto
available to the Town Administrator upon request as well as to EPA and state
inspectors.
      (11)   The Town Administrator may notify the operator at any time that
the SWPPP does not meet the requirements of the industrial general permit, any
applicable individual or group NPDES permit issued for stormwater discharges
from the industrial facility or any additional requirement imposed by or under
this chapter. Such notification shall identify those provisions of the permit
or ordinance which are not being met by the SWPPP and identify which provisions
of the SWPPP require modifications in order to meet such requirements. Within
30 days of such notification from the Town Administrator (or as otherwise
provided by the Town Administrator), the operator shall make the required
changes to the SWPPP and shall submit to the Town Administrator a written
certification that the requested changes have been made.
      (12)   The operator shall amend the SWPPP whenever there is a change in
design, construction, operation or maintenance which has a significant effect
on the potential for the discharge of pollutants to the MS4 or to the waters of
the United States, or if the SWPPP proves to be ineffective in eliminating or
significantly minimizing pollutants, or in otherwise achieving the general
objective of controlling pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with
industrial activity.
      (13)   Qualified personnel (provided by the operator) shall inspect
equipment and areas of the facility specified in the SWPPP at appropriate
intervals. A set of tracking or follow-up procedures shall be used to ensure
that appropriate actions are taken in response to the inspections. Records of
inspection shall be maintained.
      (14)   Qualified personnel (provided by the operator) shall conduct
comprehensive site compliance evaluations as required by part IV.D.4 of the
industrial general permit at intervals of not less than once per year. Based on
the results of the compliance evaluation, the description of potential
pollutant sources and the pollution prevention measures and controls identified
in the SWPPP shall be revised as appropriate within two weeks of such
evaluation and shall provide for implementation of any changes to the SWPPP in
a timely manner, but in no case more than 12 weeks after the compliance
evaluation.
      (15)   A report summarizing the scope of the comprehensive site
compliance evaluation required by division (A)(14) above, personnel making the
compliance inspection, the date(s) of the inspection, major observations
relating to the implementation of the SWPPP and actions taken in accordance
with necessary and appropriate plan revisions shall be made and retained as
part of the SWPPP for at least one year after all stormwater discharges from
the facility are eliminated and the required not has been submitted. The report
shall identify any incidence of noncompliance; or, if the report does not
identify any incidence of noncompliance, the report shall contain a
certification that the facility is in compliance with the SWPPP, the applicable
NPDES permit, and this chapter. The report shall be signed by the individual
responsible for the comprehensive site compliance evaluation and it shall be
submitted to the Town Administrator within ten days of its completion.
      (16)   If the industrial facility is required by part VI.B.2 of the
industrial general permit to conduct semi-annual monitoring, a signed copy of
each semi-annual monitoring report prepared in accordance with part VI.D shall
be submitted to the Town Administrator.
      (17)   If the industrial facility is required by part VI.B.3 of the
industrial general permit to conduct annual monitoring, records of the
monitoring results shall be retained at the facility and made available to the
Town Administrator upon request. If expressly required by the Town
Administrator, a written report of the annual monitoring shall be prepared and
submitted to the Town Administrator.
      (18)   By written notice, the Town Administrator may require any
industrial facility identified in accordance with this section to implement a
monitoring program that includes the submission of quantative data on the
following constituents: any pollutants limited in effluent guidelines
subcategories, where applicable; any pollutant listed in an existing NPDES
permit for the facility; oil and grease, COD, pH, BODs, TSS, total phosphorus,
total Kjeldahl nitrogen, nitrate plus nitrite nitrogen, and any information on
discharges required under 40 C.F.R. § 122.21(g)(7)(iii) and (iv). The Town
Administrator may require written reports of any such monitoring to be
submitted to him or her.
      (19)   By written notice, the Town Administrator may require any
industrial facility identified in this section to conduct semi-annual or annual
monitoring of stormwater discharges or the Town Administrator may specify an
alternative monitoring frequency and/or specify additional parameters to be
analyzed. The Town Administrator may require written reports of any such
additional monitoring to be submitted to him or her.
      (20)   The operator shall retain the SWPPP until at least one year after
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity at the facility are
eliminated or that operator is no longer operating the facility, and a notice
of termination (NOT) in compliance with division (A)(9) has been submitted. The
operator shall retain all records of all monitoring information, copies of all
required reports and records of all data used to complete the NOI, until at
least one year after all stormwater discharges associated with industrial
activity at the facility are eliminated, or the operator ceases to operate that
facility and the required notice of termination (NOT) has been submitted.
      (21)   For discharges subject to the semi-annual or annual monitoring
requirements of part VI.B. of the industrial general permit, in addition to the
records retention requirements of the paragraph above, operators are required
to retain for a six year period from the date of sample collection records of
all monitoring information collected. Operators must submit such monitoring
results, and/or a summary thereof to the Town Administrator upon his or her
request.
      (22)   As expeditiously as practicable, but in no case later than October
1, 1995, any discharge composed of coal pile runoff shall comply with the
following limitations: no discharge shall exceed a maximum concentration for
any time of 50 mg/l total suspended solids, nor shall such runoff be diluted
with stormwater or other flows in order to meet this limitation; the pH of such
discharges shall be within the range of 6.0-9.0. Any untreated overflow from
facilities designed, constructed and operated to treat the volume of coal pile
runoff which is associated with a ten-year, 24-hour rainfall event shall not be
subject to the 50 mg/l limitation for total suspended solids.
      (23)   After October 1, 1995, no discharge shall contain any of the
following hazardous metals in a concentration exceeding the maximum allowable
concentrations (in mg/l) of each of the hazardous metals listed below:
Total Metal Monthly Average Daily Composite Single Grab
Total Metal Monthly Average Daily Composite Single Grab
Arsenic     0.1             0.2             0.3
Barium      1.0             2.0             4.0
Cadmium     0.05            0.1             0.2
Chromium    0.5             1.0             5.0
Copper      0.5             1.0             2.0
Lead        0.5             1.0             1.5
Manganese   1.0             2.0             3.0
Mercury     0.005           0.005           0.01
Nickel      1.0             0.1             0.2
Selenium    0.05            0.1             0.2
Silver      0.05            0.1             0.2
Zinc        1.0             2.0
 
      (24)   Where all stormwater discharges associated with industrial
activity that are authorized by this chapter and by the NPDES permit for those
discharges from industrial activities are eliminated, or where the operator of
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity at a facility
changes, the operator of the facility shall submit to the Town Administrator a
notice of termination (NOT) that includes the information required for notices
of termination by part IX of the industrial general permit.
   (B)   Any owner of a facility with a stormwater discharge associated with
industrial activity to which division (A) applies, whether or not he or she is
an operator of the facility, is jointly and severally responsible for
compliance with the best management practices (BMP) measures required in the
SWPPP for the facility and for compliance with the effluent limitations for
coal pile runoff and hazardous metals specified in  divisions (A)(22) and (A)
(23) above.
   (C)   Upon request by the Town Administrator, all owners and operators of
any facility that experiences a problem complying with the requirements of this
chapter, the industrial general permit or any applicable individual or group
NPDES permit issued for stormwater discharges from the industrial facility,
shall consult with the Town Administrator, any other representative of the city
and any third-party designated by the city in an attempt to achieve compliance
as soon as practicable. If compliance is not achieved to the city's
satisfaction, the city may in its discretion report the noncompliance to EPA
and/or the state, and/or the city may itself undertake any enforcement action
authorized by §§
54.09,
54.11 or
54.12 of this chapter. Exercise of the city's option for consultation under
this division shall not be a bar against or prerequisite for taking any other
enforcement action against any owner or operator of the facility.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.07  COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Right of entry; inspection and sampling.
      (1)   The Town Administrator shall have the right to enter the premises
of any person discharging stormwater to the municipal separate storm sewer
system (MS4) or to waters of the United States to determine if the discharger
is complying with all requirements of this chapter and with any state or
federal discharge permit, limitation or requirement. Dischargers shall allow
the Town Administrator ready access to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and copying, and for the
performance of any additional duties. Dischargers shall make available to the
Town Administrator, upon request, any SWPPPs, modifications thereto, self-
inspection reports, monitoring records, compliance evaluations, notices of
intent and any other records, reports and other documents related to compliance
with this chapter and with any state or federal discharge permit.
      (2)   Where a discharger has security measures in force which require
proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
discharger shall make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, the Town Administrator will be
permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of performing his or her
responsibilities.
      (3)   The Town Administrator shall have the right to set up on the
discharger's property, or require installation of, such devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling and/or metering of the discharger's operations.
      (4)   The Town Administrator may require any discharger to the MS4 or
waters of the United States to conduct specified sampling, testing, analysis
and other monitoring of its stormwater discharges, and may specify the
frequency and parameters of any such required monitoring.
      (5)   The Town Administrator may require the discharger to install
monitoring equipment as necessary at the discharger's expense. The facility's
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      (6)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
discharger at the written or verbal request of the Town Administrator and shall
not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by the
discharger.
      (7)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Town Administrator access to
the discharger's premises shall be a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Search warrants.  If the Town Administrator has been refused access to
any part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged and he or she is
able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of
this chapter or any state or federal discharge permit, limitation or
requirement, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program of the city designed to verify
compliance with this chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the
overall public health, safety and welfare of the community, then the Town
Administrator may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.08  CITIZEN PARTICIPATION (AND PUBLICATION).
   (A)   Citizen reports of violations.
      (1)   All citizens are encouraged to report to the Town Administrator or
his or her delegate any spills, releases, illicit connections, other instances
of anyone discharging pollutants into the MS4 or waters of the United States
and any other violation of this chapter of which they become aware.
      (2)   The Town Administrator will designate an individual or office
within his or her division, department, and the like to receive all such
citizen reports by telephone, in writing and in person. A written record of
each citizen report will be prepared and kept on file for a period of three
years, and a copy of the city's record of the report will be furnished to the
reporting citizen upon request. Also upon request, the Town Administrator will
inform the reporting citizen of any action undertaken by the city in response
to the citizen's report.
   (B)   Publication of dischargers in significant noncompliance.
      (1)   The Town Administrator may periodically publish in a daily
newspaper generally distributed within the city, a list of owners and operators
of discharges to the MS4 or waters of the United States from sites of
construction and industrial activity which, during the previous 12 months, were
in significant noncompliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The term SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE  shall mean:
         (a)   Introducing or causing to be introduced into the waters of the
United States any discharge that violates a water quality standard;
         (b)   Introducing or causing to be introduced into the MS4 any
discharge that causes or contributes to causing the city to violate a water
quality standard, the city's NPDES permit or any state-issued discharge permit
for discharges from the city's MS4;
         (c)   Any connection of a line conveying sanitary sewage, domestic or
industrial, to the MS4, or allowing any such connection to continue;
         (d)   Any discharge of pollutants to the MS4 or waters of the United
States that has caused an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons or to the environment or has resulted in the (city
engineer's) exercise of his or her emergency authority to halt or prevent such
a discharge;
         (e)   Any violation that has resulted in injunctive relief, civil
penalties or criminal fine being imposed as a judicial remedy under §
54.11 of this chapter;
         (f)   Any other violation(s) which the Town Administrator determines
to be chronic or especially dangerous to the public or to the environment; or
         (g)   Any failure to comply with a compliance schedule whether imposed
by the city or by a court.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.09  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Warning notice.  When the Town Administrator finds that any person has
violated or continues to violate any provision of this chapter, or any order
issued hereunder, the Town Administrator may serve upon that person a written
warning notice, specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred
and requesting the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek
a resolution whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or
resolution of the matter in response to the warning notice in no way relieves
the alleged violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after
receipt of the warning notice. Nothing in this section shall limit the
authority of the Town Administrator to take any action, including emergency
action or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a warning notice.
   (B)   Notification of violation.  When the Town Administrator finds that any
person has violated or continues to violate any provision of this chapter, or
any order issued hereunder, the Town Administrator may serve upon that person a
written notice of violation. Within ten days of the receipt of this notice, an
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention of reoccurrence thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted by the alleged violator to the Town Administrator. If the alleged
violator denies that any violation occurred and/or contends that no corrective
action is necessary, an explanation of the basis of any such denial or
contention shall be submitted to the Town Administrator within ten days of
receipt of the notice. Submission of an explanation and/or plan in no way
relieves the alleged violator of liability for any violations occurring before
or after receipt of the notice of violation. Nothing in this section shall
limit the authority of the Town Administrator to take any action, including
emergency action or any other enforcement action, without first issuing a
notice of violation.
   (C)   Consent orders.  The Town Administrator may enter into consent orders,
assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents establishing an
agreement with any person responsible for noncompliance with any provision in
this chapter or any order issued hereunder. Such documents may include specific
action to be taken by the person to correct the noncompliance within a time
period specified by the document. Such documents shall have the same force and
effect as the administrative orders issued pursuant to divisions (E), (F) and
(G) of this section and shall be judicially enforceable.
   (D)   Show cause hearing.  The Town Administrator may order any person who
has violated or continues to violate any provision of this chapter, or any
order issued hereunder, to appear before the Town Administrator and show cause
why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served
on the alleged violator specifying the time and place for the hearing, the
proposed enforcement action, the reasons for such action, and a request that
the alleged violator show cause why the proposed enforcement action should not
be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be served personally or by registered
or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any authorized representative of the
alleged violator. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to the rights and
procedures specified in §
54.10(A)(7) of this chapter. A show cause hearing shall not be a bar against or
prerequisite for taking any other action against the alleged violator.
   (E)   Compliance orders. When the Town Administrator finds that any person
has violated or continues to violate any provision of this chapter, or any
order issued hereunder, the Town Administrator may issue an order to the
violator directing that the violator come into compliance within a specified
time limit. Compliance orders also may contain other requirements to address
the noncompliance, including additional self-monitoring and management
practices designed to minimize the amount of pollutants discharged to the MS4
and waters of the United States. A compliance order may not extend the deadline
for compliance established by a state or federal standard or requirement, nor
does a compliance order relieve the person of liability for any violation,
including any continuing violation. Issuance of a compliance order shall not be
a bar against or a prerequisite for taking any other action against the
violator.
   (F)   Remediation, abatement and restoration orders. When the Town
Administrator finds that a person has violated or continues to violate any
provision of this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, and that such
violation has adversely affected the MS4, the waters of the United States or
any other aspect of the environment, the Town Administrator may issue an order
to the violator directing him or her to undertake and implement any appropriate
action to remediate and/or abate any adverse effects of the violation upon the
MS4, the waters of the United States or any other aspect of the environment,
and/or to restore any part of the MS4, the waters of the United States or any
other aspect of the environment that has been harmed. Such remedial, abatement
and restoration action may include but not be limited to: monitoring,
assessment and evaluation of the adverse effects and determination of the
appropriate remedial, abatement and/or restoration action; confinement,
removal, cleanup, treatment, and disposal of any discharged or released
pollution or contamination; prevention, minimization, and/or mitigation of any
damage to the public health, welfare or the environment that may result from
the violation; restoration or replacement of city property or natural resources
damaged by the violation. The order may direct that the remediation, abatement
and/or restoration be accomplished on a specified compliance schedule and/or be
completed within a specified period of time. An order issued under this
subsection does not relieve the violator of liability for any violation,
including any continuing violation. Issuance of an order under this subsection
shall not be a bar against or a prerequisite for taking any other action
against any responsible party.
   (G)   Emergency cease and desist orders.
      (1)   When the Town Administrator finds that any person has violated or
continues to violate any provision of this chapter, or any order issued
hereunder, or that the person's past violations are likely to recur, and that
the person's violation(s) have caused or contributed to an actual or threatened
discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably appears to
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, the Town Administrator may issue an order to the
violator directing it immediately to cease and desist all such violations and
directing the violator to:
         (a)   Immediately comply with all ordinance requirements; and
         (b)   Take such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to
properly address a continuing or threatened violation, including immediately
halting operations and/or terminating the discharge.
      (2)   Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under this
section shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its endangering
discharge. In the event of a discharger's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the emergency order, the Town Administrator may take such
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize harm to the MS4 or waters of
the United States, and/or endangerment to persons or to the environment,
including immediate termination of a facility's water supply, sewer connection
or other municipal utility services. The Town Administrator may allow the
person to recommence its discharge when it has demonstrated to the satisfaction
of the Town Administrator that the period of endangerment has passed, unless
further termination proceedings are initiated against the discharger under this
chapter. A person that is responsible, in whole or in part, for any discharge
presenting imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement,
describing the causes of the harmful discharge and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence, to the Town Administrator within three days of
receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order
shall not be a bar against or a prerequisite for taking any other action
against the violator.
   (H)   Red tags.  Whenever the Building Inspector finds that any operator of
a construction site has violated or continues to violate, any provision of §
54.05 of this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, the Building Inspector
may order that a "red tag" be issued to the operator, posted at the
construction site and distributed to all city departments and divisions whose
decisions affect any activity at the site. Unless express written exception is
made by the Building Inspector, the "red tag" shall prohibit any further
construction activity at the site and shall bar any further inspection or
approval by the city associated with a building permit, grading permit,
(subdivision plat approval,) site development plan approval, or any other city
approval necessary to commence or continue construction or to assume occupancy
at the site. Issuance of a "red tag" order shall not be a bar against or a
prerequisite for taking any other action against the violator.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.10  RIGHT TO RECONSIDERATION, HEARING AND APPEAL.
   (A)   Reconsideration and hearing.
      (1)   Any person subject to a compliance order under §
54.09(E), a remediation, abatement or restoration order under §
54.09(F), an emergency cease and desist order under §
54.09(G) or a red tag order under §
54.09(H) of this chapter may petition the Building Inspector to reconsider the
basis for his or her order within three days of the affected person's notice of
issuance of such an order.
      (2)   Failure to submit a timely written petition for reconsideration
shall be deemed to be a waiver of any further right to administrative
reconsideration or review of the order.
      (3)   In its petition, the petitioning party must indicate the provisions
of the order objected to, the reasons for the objection(s), any facts that are
contested, the evidence that supports the petitioner's view of the facts, any
alternative terms of an order that the petitioner would accept and whether the
petitioning party requests a hearing on its petition.
      (4)   The effect of any compliance order under §
54.09(E), remediation, abatement or restoration order under §
54.09(F), and any red tag order under §
54.09(H) shall be stayed pending the (city engineer's) reconsideration of the
petition, and any hearing thereon, unless the Town Administrator expressly
makes a written determination to the contrary. The effectiveness of any
emergency cease and desist order under §
54.09(G) shall not be stayed pending the Building Inspector reconsideration, or
any hearing thereon, unless the city engineer expressly and in writing stays
his or her emergency order.
      (5)   Within 15 days of the submittal of a petition for reconsideration,
the Town Administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the petition and withdraw or modify the order accordingly;
         (b)   Deny the petition without hearing if no material issue of fact
is raised; or
         (c)   If a hearing has been requested and a material issue of fact has
been raised, set a hearing on the petition.
      (6)   Written notice of any hearing set by the Town Administrator
pursuant to division (A)(5) above shall be served on the petitioning party
personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at
least ten days prior to the hearing. Such notice may be served on any
authorized representative of the petitioning party.
      (7)   The Town Administrator may himself or herself conduct the hearing
and take evidence, or he or she may designate any employee of the city or any
specially designated attorney or engineer to:
         (a)   Issue in the name of the city notices of hearing requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in the hearing;
         (b)   Take evidence; and
         (c)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Town
Administrator for action thereon.
      (8)   At any hearing held pursuant to this section, testimony taken shall
be under oath and recorded. Any party is entitled to present his or her case or
defense by oral or documentary evidence and to conduct such cross-examination
as may be required for a full and true disclosure of the facts. A transcript
will be made available to any party to the hearing upon payment of the usual
charges thereof.
      (9)   After the Town Administrator has reviewed the evidence, he or she
shall either: (a) grant the petition; (b) deny the petition; or (c) grant the
petition in part and deny it in part. The Town Administrator may modify his or
her order as is appropriate based upon the evidence and arguments presented at
the hearing and his or her action on the petition. Further orders and
directives as are necessary and appropriate may be issued.
   (B)   Appeal.
      (1)   Any person whose petition for reconsideration by the Town
Administrator has not been granted in its entirety and who remains adversely
affected by the (city engineer's) order, or who is subject to an order of the
Town Administrator issued following a show cause hearing under §
54.09(D), may appeal the action of the Town Administrator to the City Council
by filing a written appeal with the City Council within 15 days of the person's
notice of the Town Administrator adverse action on the petition for
reconsideration, or within 21 days of the person's notice of the issuance of
the order following the show cause hearing, as the case may be.
      (2)   Failure to submit a timely written appeal to the City Council shall
be deemed to be a waiver of further administrative review.
      (3)   In its written appeal to the City Council, the appealing party
shall indicate the particular provisions of the order objected to, the
particular determinations of the Town Administrator that are contested, the
reasons that the Town Administrator order and/or determinations are contested
and any alternative order that the appealing party would accept.
      (4)   The effect of the Town Administrator order, as issued or modified,
shall not be stayed pending the appeal to the City Council unless the City
Council expressly so states.
      (5)   Within 21 days of the submittal of a written appeal to the City
Council, the City Council shall hear and consider the appeal in open meeting.
The appellant shall be notified at least seven days in advance of the date and
time of the City Council meeting at which the appeal will be heard and
considered.
      (6)   The appellant shall have the right to public appearance before the
City Council to present oral and written statements in support of his or her
appeal. If the City Council wishes to consider testimony of witnesses or other
evidence beyond that in the record of any hearing before the Town
Administrator, the City Council may remand the matter to the Town Administrator
for the taking of additional testimony or other evidence.
      (7)   Upon consideration of any written and oral statements made to the
City Council, as well as the record made before the Town Administrator, the
City Council shall act on the appeal by affirming, vacating or modifying the
order of the Town Administrator, and/or by remanding the matter to the Town
Administrator for further action.
      (8)   Following final action by the City Council on the appeal, any
adversely affected party may challenge such action by the City Council in an
appropriate court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.11  JUDICIAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Civil remedies.
      (1)   Whenever it appears that a person has violated or continues to
violate any provision of this chapter that relates to:
         (a)   The preservation of public safety, relating to the materials or
methods used in construction of any structure or improvement of real property;
         (b)   The preservation of public health or to the fire safety of a
building or other structure or improvement;
         (c)   The establishment of criteria for land subdivision or
construction of buildings, including street design;
         (d)   Dangerously damaged or deteriorated structures or improvements;
         (e)   Conditions caused by accumulations of refuse, vegetation or
other matter that creates breeding and living places for insects and rodents;
or
         (f)   Point source effluent limitations or the discharge of a
pollutant, other than from a non-point source, into the MS4.
         (g)   The city may invoke Tex. Government Code §§ 54.011 through
54.017 and petition the state district court or the county court at law of
Tarrant County, through the city attorney, for either the injunctive relief
specified in division (A)(2) below or the civil penalties specified in division
(A)(3) below, or both the specified injunctive relief and civil penalties.
      (2)   Pursuant to Tex. Government Code § 54.016, the city may obtain
against the owner or the operator of a facility a temporary or permanent
injunction, as appropriate, that:
         (a)   Prohibits any conduct that violates any provision of this
chapter that relates to any matter specified in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (f)
above; or
         (b)   Compels the specific performance of any action that is necessary
for compliance with any provision of this chapter that relates to any matter
specified in divisions (1)(a) through (f) above.
      (3)   Pursuant to Tex. Government Code § 54.017, the city may recover a
civil penalty of not more than $1,000 per day for each violation of any
provision of this chapter that relates to any matter specified in divisions (A)
(1)(a) through (e) above, and a civil penalty of not more than $5,000 per day
for each violation of any provision of this chapter that relates to any matter
specified in division (A)(1)(f) above, if the city proves that:
         (a)   The defendant was actually notified of the provisions of this
chapter; and
         (b)   After the defendant received notice of the chapter provisions,
the defendant committed acts in violation of the chapter or failed to take
action necessary for compliance with the chapter.
   (B)   Criminal penalties.
      (1)   Any person who has violated any provision of this chapter, or any
order issued hereunder shall be strictly liable for such violation regardless
of the presence or absence of a culpable mental state and shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine in accordance with the general penalty
provision found in §
10.99 of the Town of Lakeside Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   Any person who has knowingly made any false statement,
representation or certification in any application, record, report, plan or
other documentation filed, or required to be maintained, pursuant to this
chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or who has falsified, tampered with, or
knowingly rendered inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall upon conviction, be subject to a fine in accordance with the
general penalty provision found in §
10.99 of the Town of Lakeside Code of Ordinances.
      (3)   In determining the amount of any fine imposed hereunder, the court
shall take into account all relevant circumstances, including but not limited
to the extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration of
the violation, any economic benefit gained through the violation, corrective
actions by the violator, the compliance history of the violator, the knowledge,
intent, negligence, or other state of mind of the violator and any other factor
as justice requires.
   (C)   Civil suit under the Texas Water Code. Whenever it appears that a
violation or threat of violation of any provision of Tex. Water Code § 26.121,
or any rule, permit or order of the Texas Water Commission has occurred or is
occurring within the jurisdiction of the Town of Lakeside, inclusive of its
extraterritorial jurisdiction, the city in the same manner as the Texas Water
Commission, may have a suit instituted in a state district court through its
city attorney for the injunctive relief or civil penalties or both authorized
in Tex. Water Code § 26.123(a) against the person who committed or is
committing or threatening to commit the violation. This power is exercised
pursuant to Tex. Water Code § 26.124. In any suit brought by the city under
this subsection, the Texas Water Commission is a necessary and indispensable
party.
   (D)   Remedies nonexclusive.  The remedies provided for in this chapter are
not exclusive of any other remedies that the city may have under state or
federal law or other city ordinances. The city may take any, all or any
combination of these actions against a violator. The city is empowered to take
more than one enforcement action against any violator. These actions may be
taken concurrently.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.12  SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The Town Administrator may by written notice order
any owner or operator of a source of stormwater discharge associated with
construction or industrial activity to file a satisfactory bond payable to the
city in a sum not to exceed a value determined by the Town Administrator to be
necessary to achieve consistent compliance with this chapter, any order issued
hereunder, any required Best Management Practice, and/or any SWPPP provision,
and/or to achieve final stabilization of the site. The city may deny approval
of any building permit, grading permit, subdivision plat, site development plan
or any other city permit or approval necessary to commence or continue
construction or any industrial activity at the site or to assume occupancy
until such a performance bond has been filed.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The Town Administrator may, by written notice,
order any owner or operator of a source of stormwater discharge associated with
construction or industrial activity to submit proof that it has obtained
liability insurance, or other financial assurance, in an amount not to exceed a
value determined by the Town Administrator, that is sufficient to remediate,
restore and abate any damage to the MS4, the waters of the United States or any
other aspect of the environment that is caused by the discharge.
   (C)   Public nuisances. A violation of any provision of this chapter or any
order issued hereunder is hereby declared a public nuisance and shall be
corrected or abated as directed by the Town Administrator.  Any person(s)
creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of the city code
governing such nuisances, including reimbursing the city for any costs incurred
in removing, abating or remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.13  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   Charges and fees. The city may adopt reasonable fees for reimbursement of
costs of constructing, operating and maintaining the city's MS4, and for
reimbursement of costs of implementing its stormwater management program as
required by EPA or the state and the cost of implementing this chapter, which
costs may include but not be limited to the following:
   (A)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures including
the cost of collecting and analyzing discharges and reviewing monitoring
reports submitted by dischargers;
   (B)   Fees for spill and release reports and responding to spills and
releases of oil, hazardous and extremely hazardous substances and other
pollutants; and
   (C)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained in this chapter. These fees relate solely to the matters
covered by this chapter and are separate from all other fees, fines and
penalties chargeable by the city.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects, refuses or fails to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of
any provision of this chapter shall be fined in accordance with the general
penalty provision found in §
10.99 of the Town of Lakeside Code of Ordinances per violation, per day for
each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute
a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed $2,000.  Each day of violation shall constitute a separate
offense.  Such penalty provision is cumulative of any and all rights the town
has to enforce the chapter through any lawful means including legal action
seeking injunctive or other appropriate relief.
(Ord. 365, passed 12-12-2013)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Parking on public streets
   
70.03   Operation of motorcycles or motor vehicles on certain property
   
70.04   Disabled parking
   
70.05   Temporary permits
   
70.06   Parking within a residential or multi-family zoned area
   
70.07   Parking on hard-surfaced areas and residential lots
   
70.08   Parking on a driveway, parking lot, or off-street parking area
   
70.09   Conflicts
   
70.10   Publication
   
70.11   Effective date
   
70.12   Parking prohibited on Farm to Market Highway 1886
   
70.13   Enforcement; notice
Special Exceptions
   
70.20   Special exception available
   
70.21   Substantial economic harm
   
70.22   Request for special exception
   
70.23   Notice of requested exception
   
70.24   Hearing
   
70.25   Granting of exception
   
70.26   Exception with conditions; violations; forfeiture; termination
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.  All other terms used in this chapter
shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the motor vehicle laws of the
state or their ordinary and common meanings.
   BUS.  Any motor vehicle designed for carrying more than ten passengers and
used for the transportation of persons.
   COMMERCIAL MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight
rating (GVWR) greater than 10,000 pounds, designed or used for the
transportation of property, not including a passenger bus, passenger
automobile, motorcycle or pickup truck.
   CURB.  The lateral lines of a roadway, whether constructed above grade or
not, that are intended for vehicular travel.
   DOUBLE PARKING.  Standing or parking a vehicle on the roadway side of a
vehicle already stopped, standing or parked at the curb.
   FREEWAY.  Any limited access expressway or highway within the city,
including the entrances and exits leading to and from the through traffic lanes
of that expressway or highway.
   HOUSE TRAILER.  A vehicle without motive power, designed to be drawn by a
motor vehicle, and designed primarily as living quarters for persons, whether
permanently or for temporary or recreational purposes, but not including
manufactured homes or mobile homes.
   LOADING ZONE.  A space adjacent to a curb, reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   MEDIAN STRIP.  The area or portion of a divided street, road or highway
within the city, separating the two roadways of that street, road or highway,
including the curb, if any, at the outer edge of that area.
   MOBILE HOME.  Living quarters equipped or used for sleeping and eating,
which may be moved from one location to another over a public street by being
pulled behind a motor vehicle.
   MOTOR HOME.  Living quarters, propelled by a motor vehicle, equipped or used
for sleeping and eating, which may be moved from one location to another over a
public street, not including a camper mounted on a pickup truck, or a van
designed to carry ten or fewer passengers.
   NEGLIGENCE.  The want of ordinary care and caution as a person of ordinary
prudence would use under like circumstances.
   PARK OR PARKING.  To stand an occupied or unoccupied vehicle, other than
temporarily, while loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   OPERATOR.  Any person in control of a vehicle, including a railroad train or
vehicle being towed.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A self-propelled vehicle designed for use as living
quarters for persons, whether permanently or for temporary or recreational
purposes.
   STAND OR STANDING.  To halt an occupied or unoccupied vehicle, other than
temporarily, while receiving or discharging passengers.
   SERVICE ROAD.  An auxiliary roadway adjacent to a freeway, expressway or
major thoroughfare, which is used by traffic desiring access to abutting
property, and by traffic seeking ingress to or egress from the adjacent
freeway, expressway or major thoroughfare.
   TRAILER.
      (1)   A vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by a motor
vehicle, secured to the motor vehicle by a pole, reach, or boom, and designed
to carry or transport cargo or property;
      (2)   A vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by a motor
vehicle, constructed so that part of its weight and load rests on the other
vehicle, and designed to carry or transport cargo or property; or
      (3)   A vehicle without motive power designed to be drawn by a motor
vehicle, that is more than 20 feet long, and has commercial equipment built
into or onto it.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.02  PARKING ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this section for
any person to cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name
of or operated by that person to do the following:
   (A)   Double park.  Double park at any point on the streets or alleys of the
city.
   (B)   Obstructions from parked vehicles.  Stop or park upon or adjacent to a
public street or alley so that any portion of the vehicle, including but not
limited to, any objects carried in or upon the vehicle, protrude into the main-
traveled portion of that street or alley.
   (C)   Maximum parking time.  Park on any street or alley in the city for a
period of time longer than 48 hours or the time period stated on signs posted
by authority of this chapter.
   (D)   Stopping, standing and parking regulated. Stop, stand or park at any
time upon any public street, alleyway, other public place or fire lane, when
signs are erected or curbs are painted giving notice that stopping, standing or
parking is prohibited.
   (E)   Parking for certain purposes.  Park upon any public street, alley or
public property of any nature whatsoever in the city for the purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Washing, greasing, cleaning, polishing, waxing, changing oil or
repairing the vehicle, except for repairs necessitated by an emergency; or
      (3)   Selling or exhibiting property of any nature.
   (F)   Parking certain vehicles.
      (1)   The following types of parking and standing for certain vehicles
shall be unauthorized:
         (a)   Park, if the vehicle is a truck tractor, road tractor, trailer,
semitrailer, pole trailer, bus, motor home, mobile home or any commercial motor
vehicle, as these terms are defined in §
70.01 and Tex. Transportation Code § 541.201, upon a public street, alley,
parkway, boulevard measuring less than 38 feet in width, or public property.
Nothing in this division shall authorize the parking of mobile homes in any
location, public or private, unless pursuant to a permitted use authorized by
the zoning ordinance.
         (b)   Leave, park or stand any truck tractor, road tractor,
semitrailer, bus, truck or trailer with a rated capacity in excess of five
tons, according to the manufacturer's classification, upon property within any
area zoned as either a dwelling district or apartment district, according to
the zoning ordinance. This division shall not prevent the parking or standing
of such vehicles in such zoned areas for the purpose of expeditiously loading
and unloading passengers, freight or merchandise, but not otherwise.
         (c)   Leave, park or stand any truck tractor, road tractor,
semitrailer or other commercial vehicle on the driver’s side of any one-way
alley situated within the central business district.
      (2)   This division (F) shall not apply to:
         (a)   Street construction, maintenance and repair equipment;
         (b)   Trucks, equipment, trailers and vehicles used by public service
utility companies, when engaged in repairing or extending public service
utilities;
         (c)   Motor buses, when taking on or discharging passengers at
customary bus stops;
         (d)   Other vehicles, when actually parked at a designated loading
zone;
         (e)   Municipal vehicles in the course of performing city business; or
         (f)   When it is lawful to park a commercial motor vehicle for the
purpose of accepting or delivering transportable goods.
         (g)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under this division
that the vehicle had a mechanical defect, making it unsafe to proceed further,
in which event, it shall be lawful to stand or park the vehicle during the time
necessary to make emergency repairs.
   (G)   Parking off pavement, roadway or parking area. Parking off the
pavement, main-traveled portion of the roadway or a designated or permitted
parking area onto any property without the effective consent of the owner. It
is an affirmative defense to the prosecution that the parking off the pavement,
main-traveled portion of the roadway or designated or permitted parking area
was required due to an emergency malfunction of the motor vehicle, and that
there was no other safe place to operate the vehicle, or that it was required
due to an order by a peace officer. It is an exception that the motor vehicle
is a municipal vehicle performing municipal duties, or public utility vehicle
performing service within an easement.
   (H)   Parking on sidewalks. Park any motor vehicle or trailer across or upon
any sidewalk for pedestrians.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03  OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLES OR MOTOR VEHICLES ON CERTAIN PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motorcycle or motor vehicle
on any utility easement, vacant lot, other unpaved private property or church
parking lot, paved or unpaved, not owned by the operator, or his or her
immediate family, without the express written consent of the owner carried on
the operator’s person.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.04  DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   Defined. DISABLED PARKING SPACES are those parking spaces marked as
required by state statutory requirements, whether on private property or public
property, including streets.
   (B)   Use.  The use of any disabled parking space shall be unlawful except
for those persons parking vehicles being operated by or for a person with
disabilities, which vehicles display:
      (1)   A valid disabled parking placard issued pursuant to Tex.
Transportation Code Ch. 681;
      (2)   A valid license plate issued pursuant to Tex. Transportation Code §
504.201 or § 504.202; or
      (3)   A license plate or placard that:
         (a)   Bears the international symbol of access; and
         (b)   Is issued by a state or by a state or province of a foreign
country to the owner or operator of the vehicle for the transportation of a
person with a disability.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Chief of Police is authorized to appoint persons to have
authority to file a charge against a person who commits an offense under Tex.
Transportation Code Ch. 681.
      (2)   A person appointed under this section must:
         (a)   Be a United States citizen of good moral character who has not
been convicted of a felony;
         (b)   Take and subscribe to an oath of office that he or she will
faithfully perform the duties assigned; and
         (c)   Successfully complete a training program of at least four hours
in length developed by the Police Department.
      (3)   A person appointed under this section:
         (a)   Is not a peace officer;
         (b)   Has no authority other than the authority applicable to a
citizen to enforce a law other than this chapter; and
         (c)   May not carry a weapon while performing duties under this
section.
      (4)   A person appointed under this section is not entitled to
compensation for performing duties under this section, or to indemnification
from the city or the state for injury or property damage the person sustains,
or liability the person incurs, in performing duties under this section.
      (5)   Neither the city nor the state are liable for any damage arising
from an act or omission of a person appointed under division (C)(1) in
performing duties under this section.
         (a)   Application.  This section and Tex. Transportation Code §
681.011 apply to a parking space or area for persons with disabilities on
private property that is designated in compliance with the identification
requirements referred to in Tex. Transportation Code § 681.009(b).
         (b)   Offenses, penalties.  Offenses are defined and penalties are
provided for by Tex. Transportation Code § 681.011.
         (c)   Towing.  Any vehicle not displaying the proper disabled license
plate, tag or device may be towed from a handicapped parking space defined by
division (A) of this section, at the expense of the owner of that vehicle, and
may be impounded until all towing and storage charges are paid.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.05  TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   (A)   A temporary permit for up to 48 hours, to park on a street or public
right-of-way, can be obtained from the City Administrator, upon a showing that
travel on the street or public right-of-way will not be dangerously blocked or
inhibited for emergency vehicles or regular traffic.
   (B)   The terms of §
70.02 shall not be construed to apply where the parking is permitted in
conjunction with temporary special events open to the public, which may be
approved from time to time by the City Council.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.06  PARKING WITHIN A RESIDENTIAL OR MULTI-FAMILY ZONED AREA.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or allow the following to be parked on
any private property located within a residential or multi-family zoned area:
      (1)   A commercial vehicle; or
      (2)   A trailer.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to street construction, maintenance, and
repair equipment; trucks, equipment, trailers, and vehicles used by public
service utility companies engaged in repairing or extending public service
utilities; motor buses when taking on or discharging passengers at customary
bus stops; other vehicles when actually parked at a designated loading zone;
municipal vehicles in the course of performance of town business; or a
commercial vehicle that is actually accepting or delivering portable goods.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07  PARKING ON HARD-SURFACED AREAS AND RESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or to allow to be parked
on any property under his or her control any automobile, light truck,
motorcycle, camper, or boat on any portion of a front yard or side yard
adjoining a street of any area zoned and used as one-family, two-family, or
multi-family dwelling purposes, unless:
      (1)   The area is a part of a hard-surfaced driveway or parking area;
      (2)   The area is a part of a gravel driveway bordered by cement curbing
or similar permanent border;
      (3)   The area is part of a required driveway that provides access to a
garage, carport, or off-street parking area required by a zoning ordinance; or
      (4)   The area is part of a side yard enclosed by a screening fence at
least six feet in height, and so constructed that no person can see through
into the area surrounded by the fence.
      (5)   No restrictions are implied on the back of the property past the
rear building.
   (B)   The term “hard surfaced” as used herein is defined in §
151.027(D)(2) of the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not apply to any presently existing gravel
driveway, but if any change or abandonment of use of the driveway area occurs,
then the owner or occupant of the property may not thereafter revert to use of
same for parking of vehicles without meeting the terms and provisions of this
subchapter.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, DRIVEWAY shall mean the area between the
curb cut or drive approach from a public street or alley, to a garage, carport
or rear yard vehicle storage area.
   (E)   Parking spaces and any adjoining private driveways shall be
constructed as described in §
151.027(D)(2) of the zoning ordinance. The paved surface shall be two inches or
more in thickness, shall not exceed one-half inch in height above the adjacent
unpaved surface, and shall be located perpendicular to the curb cut or drive
approach. On nonconforming lots without paved parking spaces and driveways
existing as of the effective date of this chapter, the parking spaces and
driveways shall only be located perpendicular to the curb cut or drive
approach.
   (F)   All vehicles shall be driven and parked so as to completely rest upon
a paved surface or driveway. On nonconforming lots without paved parking spaces
and driveways existing as of the effective date of this chapter, all vehicles
shall be driven and parked so as to completely rest upon the unpaved parking
spaces or driveways as provided in this section, or in the side yard adjacent
thereto. No parking spaces shall be permitted in the remaining front yard
portion, unless it is paved in accordance with division (B) above.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.08  PARKING ON A DRIVEWAY, PARKING LOT, OR OFF-STREET PARKING AREA.
   It shall be unlawful to park or allow to be parked any commercial vehicle,
trailer, recreation vehicle, house trailer, boat, bus, or any trailer designed
to be towed and used for commercial purposes on a driveway, parking lot, or
other off-street parking area in such a manner that any portion of same extends
past the front or side property line of the property, and into property that is
publicly-owned or to which a public easement has been granted.  The prohibition
applies even though a street, curb, or other public improvement may not extend
to and abut the surveyed property line.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.09  CONFLICTS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed or construed to allow the parking
of a recreational vehicle or house trailer within a residential or multi-family
zoned area except in strict conformity with other ordinances specifically
addressing the parking.  To the extent this subchapter may conflict with other
ordinances specifically addressing the parking, the other ordinances shall
control.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.10  PUBLICATION.
   The City Secretary is instructed to publish this subchapter as provided by
law.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.11  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.12  PARKING PROHIBITED ON FARM TO MARKET HIGHWAY 1886.
   (A)   It is illegal for any person to park any automobile, bus, truck,
motorcycle, motor home, camper, trailer, boat or any other type of vehicle on
or along the improved an unimproved portions of the public right-of-way for
Farm to Market Highway 1886 as it runs through the town limits.  The RIGHT-OF-
WAY FOR FARM TO MARKET HIGHWAY 1886 is hereby defined as being 50 feet on
either side of the center of Farm to Market Highway 1886.
   (B)   Signs shall be installed to inform the traveling public of the fact
that no parking at any time shall be allowed along the right-of-way.
   (C)   It is provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to the
driver of any vehicle that becomes disabled to such an extent that it is
impossible to avoid stopping and temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle as
far as possible off the paved portion of the highway.  It is further provided,
however, that a disabled vehicle must be removed from the highway right-of-way
within 48 hours after it has been parked and left.
   (D)   In a prosecution for an offense involving the stopping, standing, or
parking of an unattended motor vehicle, it shall be presumed that the
registered owner of the vehicle is the person who stopped, stood, or parked the
vehicle at the time and place the offense occurred.  The registered owner of
the vehicle may rebut this presumption by showing that he or she did not stop,
stand or park the vehicle, and by identifying the party who did so.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.13  ENFORCEMENT; NOTICE.
   (A)   Any police officer for the town shall have the authority to require
the immediate abatement and removal of any illegally parked vehicle as provided
herein.  The town or a wrecker service under the direction of a police officer
may, without the consent or knowledge of the owner or operator of the vehicle,
remove and store the vehicle at a vehicle storage facility at the vehicle
owner’s expense.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the last registered owner of the vehicle
is responsible for all costs incurred under or other consequences resulting
from this section.
   (C)   The town shall give written notice by certified mail, return receipt
requested, within two days after the date of removal of the vehicle, to:
      (1)   The last address that the registration records of the Texas
Department of Transportation show for the owner of the vehicle, or if the
vehicle is registered in another state, the last address that the appropriate
agency of that state shows for the owner of the vehicle; and
      (2)   Every lien holder recorded under Tex. Transportation Code Ch. 501,
as may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the vehicle with sufficient particularity to identify the
vehicle;
      (2)   Identify the location of the facility that is storing the vehicle
(including a valid and working telephone number for the facility);
      (3)   Inform the owner and lien holder of the right to claim the vehicle
not later than 170 days from the date of the notice, upon the payment of all
towing, preservation, notification and storage charges;
      (4)   State that the owner or lien holder’s failure to claim the vehicle
within the period specified is:
         (a)   A waiver by that person of all rights, title and interest in the
vehicle; and
         (b)   Consent to the disposal of the vehicle as provided by state law.
   (E)   The town may dispose of the vehicle in any manner allowed by state
law.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 70.20  SPECIAL EXCEPTION AVAILABLE.
   A person desiring to park a commercial vehicle or trailer on private
property located within a residential or multi-family zoned district, as
prohibited by §§
70.01 through
70.09, may do so only by obtaining a special exception from the City Council as
provided herein.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)  Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.21  SUBSTANTIAL ECONOMIC HARM.
   No person may obtain a special exception to the parking prohibition, unless
and until the person can demonstrate to the City Council that the prohibition
is causing and shall continue to cause substantial economic harm to that
person.  The fact that a person may have to pay parking or other fees at a
storage or other parking facility, if the prohibition remains in effect, shall
not constitute substantial economic harm.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.22  REQUEST FOR SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
   (A)   In order to obtain a special exception, a person shall file a written
request for same.  The written request shall include:
      (1)   The name and address of the person requesting the exception;
      (2)   The address of the property where an exception to the prohibition
against parking is desired;
      (3)   A description of the vehicle or trailer made subject of the
exception;
      (4)   A statement of the economic harm being suffered by the applicant;
      (5)   The proposed length of time for the exception to exist;
      (6)   The place where the vehicle or trailer is to be parked, including a
description of the pavement or other material on which it is to be parked; and
      (7)   The name and address of each property owner or occupant of property
located on the same street within 200 feet of the property for which the
exception is desired, or the town block on which the property is located,
whichever is more.  If the property is a corner property, then the 200-foot
requirement shall be used for each street of the intersecting streets.
   (B)   At the time of the filing of the written request, the person shall
also pay a fee of $100.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.23  NOTICE OF REQUESTED EXCEPTION.
   The City Secretary shall mail a notice of the requested exception to each
person set out in the application, setting out that an exception has been
requested, a description of the vehicle or trailer, and the date and time of
the hearing on the exception before the City Council.  The notice shall be sent
at least ten days before the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.24  HEARING.
   At the hearing before the City Council, the applicant shall be permitted to
speak and present the application, and all other persons who wish to do so
shall be permitted to speak for or against the application.  Any person shall
also be permitted to present any written petition for or against the exception
signed by the property owners who received notice.  The City Council and/or the
Mayor may set and announce limits for the time of presentation or speaking by
all persons, and the other rules as are deemed necessary and proper.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.25  GRANTING OF EXCEPTION.
   (A)   If a majority of the City Council attending the meeting find that
substantial economic harm will result to the applicant if the prohibition
against parking remains in effect and vote to allow an exception, then the
exception shall be granted.
   (B)   The City Council may impose conditions for granting of the exception,
such as but not limited to, fencing, places on the property where the vehicle
or trailer may be parked, the type of material on which the vehicle or trailer
may be parked, and limitations of the regularity of driving the vehicle or
pulling the trailer into and out of the property.
   (C)   If more than 50% of the persons who receive the required notice of the
filing of the exception object to same (either by appearing or signing a
written petition objecting to the exception), then the exception shall not be
granted, unless at least two-thirds of the members of the City Council present
at the hearing vote in favor of same.
   (D)   If any exception is granted, then the City Council shall also set the
length of time for which the exception is granted.  No exception may be granted
for a period in excess of two years.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.26  EXCEPTION WITH CONDITIONS; VIOLATIONS; FORFEITURE; TERMINATION.
   (A)   If an applicant is granted an exception with conditions, and the
applicant violates a condition, the City Secretary or Chief of Police shall
send a notice of the violation, with a warning that if any condition is
violated again, the exception shall be administratively forfeited and the
prohibition shall again be in effect as to the property.
   (B)   If a second violation occurs, then the exception shall be forfeited
and withdrawn by giving written notice to the holder of the exception.  The
holder of the exception may appeal the forfeiture to the City Council by giving
written notice of the appeal no later than 15 days after the date of the notice
of forfeiture.  The City Council may overrule the forfeiture, but only if it is
found that the two violations did not, in fact, occur.
   (C)   If the exception is forfeited, then the holder thereof may not request
another exception for one year from the date the forfeiture becomes final.
   (D)   The exception shall terminate at the expiration of the time set by the
City Council, unless the holder shall renew same by filing for renewal
thereof.  The procedures and requirements set out above shall apply to any
renewal application.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
§ 70.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter an act is prohibited or is made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor, or wherever in this chapter the
doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be
unlawful, and no specific penalty is otherwise provided in this code of
ordinances, the violation shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500,
provided, however, that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty
provided for the same or a similar offense of the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day a violation of this chapter or of any ordinance continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions of this chapter, irrespective of whether or not
the verbiage of each section contains the specific language that such violation
or failure to comply is unlawful and is an offense. Any person who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or any of the provisions of a
permit issued pursuant thereto, or who shall fail to comply with the terms
thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, on conviction thereof, be
fined in the sum not to exceed $500. The violation of each separate provision
thereof shall be considered a separate offense. Each day’s continuance of a
failure to comply therewith shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 346, passed 2-16-2015)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Speed limits
   
II.   Stop and yield signs
   
III.   Engine braking
SCHEDULE I.  SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   (1)   The speed limit on FM Road 1886, otherwise known as Confederate
Park Road, beginning from the eastern most boundary of the town located at the
south or southeast bound service road intersection with State Highway 199, and
running approximately 1.76 miles along FM Road 1886, to the western border of
the Town of Lakeside shall be 45 mph.  All vehicles of any kind or nature
traveling along that portion of FM Road 1886 shall not exceed the speed limit
set out herein.  There shall be excepted from the requirement of speed,
emergency vehicles running under emergency conditions and the other exceptions
as allowed and set out in state law.
      (2)   Signs posting the speed limit shall be installed to inform the
traveling public of the speed limit in the manner as to give full notice of the
speed limit and as may be required by state law.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or
fail to comply with any provisions hereof, irrespective of whether or not the
verbiage of each section hereof contains the specific language that the
violation or failure to comply is unlawful and is an offense.  Any person who
shall violate any of the provisions of this division (A) or any of the
provisions of a permit issued pursuant hereto, or who shall fail to comply with
the terms hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, on conviction
thereof, be fined in the sum not to exceed $500, or the lesser amount that may
be required by state law, and the violation of each separate provision hereof
shall be considered a separate offense.
      (4)   The Town Secretary is here directed and authorized to cause
publication of this division (A) as required by law.
      (5)   This division (A) shall be in full force and effect from and after
its publication as required by law, and it is so ordained.
   (B)   (1)   Upon basis of an engineering and traffic investigation
heretofore made as authorized by the provisions of Tex. Transportation Code, §
545.353, Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, the following prima facie
speed limits hereafter indicated for vehicles are hereby determined and
declared to be reasonable and safe; and the speed limits are hereby fixed at
the rate of speed indicated for vehicles traveling upon the named streets and
highways, or parts thereof, described as follows.
         (a)   State Highway 199 (Southwest Frontage Road) Tarrant County. 
From Station 520+48.5 (east town limits of Lakeside, also being the town limits
of Fort Worth) northwesterly 1.081 to Station 577+57.5 (north town limits of
Lakeside, being also the town limits of Fort Worth) at 40 mph.
         (b)   1.   The maximum speed limit on Vanshire Road, east and west,
within the limits of the town shall be 25 miles per hour.  All vehicles of any
kind or nature traveling on Vanshire Road shall not exceed the speed limit set
out herein.  There shall be excepted from such requirement of speed, emergency
vehicles running under emergency conditions and such other exceptions as
allowed and set out in state law.
            2.   Signs posting the speed limit shall be installed to inform the
traveling pubic of the speed limit in such manner as to give full notice of the
speed limit as may be required by state law.
         (c)   The maximum speed limit on Lakeridge Road within the limits of
the town shall be 25 miles per hour.  All vehicles of any kind or nature
traveling on Lakeridge Road shall not exceed the speed limit set out herein. 
There shall be excepted from such requirement of speed, emergency vehicles
running under emergency conditions and such other exceptions as allowed and set
out in state law.
         (d)   1.   With the exceptions noted herein below, all streets in the
Town of Lakeside shall have a maximum speed limit of 30 miles per hour.
            2.   The maximum speed limit on the following streets within the
town limits shall be shown below:
               a.   Vanshire Road, east and west, shall be 25 miles per hour.
               b.   Lakeridge Road shall be 25 miles per hour.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or
fail to comply with any provisions of this schedule, irrespective of whether or
not the verbiage of each section hereof contains the specific language that
such violation or failure to comply is unlawful and is an offense.  Any person
who shall violate any of the provisions of this schedule or any of the
provisions of a permit issued pursuant hereto, or who shall fail to comply with
the terms hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, on conviction
thereof, be fined in the sum not to exceed $500, or such lesser amount that may
be required by state law, and the violation of each separate provision hereof
shall be considered a separate offense.
      (3)   Whenever construction of a state-maintained highway within the town
limits of the Town of Lakeside is begun, and the Texas Department of
Transportation establishes speed limits within the construction zones by
commission minute order, then the speed limits as are established by the
commission minute order are hereby adopted by the Town of Lakeside as the speed
limit in the construction zones.
(Ord. 65-B, passed 7-6-1989; Ord. 154, passed 1-8-1993; Ord. 281, passed 10-11-
2007; Ord. 294, passed 5-14-2009; Ord. 295, passed 5-14-2009)
SCHEDULE II.  STOP AND YIELD SIGNS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Stop signs conforming to state law shall be placed at the
intersection of Copperwood and Farm to Market Road Highway 1886 (Confederate
Park Road) governing movement from Copperwood onto Farm to Market Road 1886.
         (b)   An operator of a vehicle, motor vehicle, truck, moped, bicycle,
or any other mode of transportation of persons or property approaching Farm to
Market Road 1886 while driving on Copperwood shall come to a complete stop at a
clearly marked stop line at the intersection of the two roadways, or, if there
is not a clearly marked stop line, then at a place nearest the intersection of
the two streets specified above where the stop sign is posted.  After stopping,
the operator shall grant immediate use of movement to persons or vehicles of
any kind or nature on Farm to Market Road 1886 in obedience to the stop sign
and after stopping may proceed only when the intersection can be safely entered
without interference or collision with vehicular or pedestrian traffic using
Farm to Market Road 1886.
         (c)   Stop signs conforming to state law shall be placed at the
intersection of Silver Hill Court and Silver Creek Road governing movement from
Silver Creek Court onto Silver Creek Road.
         (d)   An operator of a vehicle, motor vehicle, truck, moped, bicycle,
or any other mode of transportation of persons or property approaching Silver
Creek Road while driving on Silver Hill Court shall come to a complete stop at
a clearly marked stop line at the intersection of the two roadways, or, if
there is not a clearly marked stop line, then at a place nearest the
intersection of the two streets specified above where the stop sign is posted. 
After stopping, the operator shall grant immediate use of movement to persons
or vehicles of any kind or nature on Silver Creek Road in obedience to the stop
sign and after stopping may proceed only when the intersection can be safely
entered without interference or collision with vehicular or pedestrian traffic
using Silver Creek Road.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this division (A) shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed the maximum amount set or required by State of Texas law.
      (3)   This division (A) shall be published as required by law and shall
then be in full force and effect after the date of its publication and it is so
ordained.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Stop signs conforming to state law shall be placed at the
intersection of Brook Baker Blvd and Holt Street governing movement on Brooks
Baker Blvd.
         (b)   An operator of a vehicle, motor vehicle, truck, moped, bicycle,
or any other mode of transportation of persons or property shall come to a
complete stop at a clearly marked stop line at the intersections specified
above or if there is not a clearly marked stop line, then at a place nearest
the intersection of the two streets specified above where the stop sign is
posted, at each of the locations described hereinabove and shall grant
immediate use of the intersection to other vehicular or pedestrian traffic in
obedience to the stop sign and after stopping, may proceed only when the
intersection can be safely entered without interference or collision with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic using a different street or roadway.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this division (B) shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed the maximum amount set or required by State of Texas law.
      (3)   This division (B) shall be published as required by law and shall
then be in full force and effect after the date of its publication and it is so
ordained.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Stop signs conforming to state law shall be placed at the
following locations:
            1.   In the northbound lane of Silver Creek Road at its
intersection with F.M. 1886 (also known as Confederate Park Road); and
            2.   In the southbound lane of Silver Spring Lane at its
intersection with F.M. 1886 (also known as Confederate Park Road).
         (b)   An operator of a vehicle, motor vehicle, truck, moped, bicycle,
or any other mode of transportation of persons or property shall come to a
complete stop at a clearly marked stop line at the intersections specified
above or if there is not a clearly marked stop line, then at a place nearest
the intersection of the two streets specified above where the stop sign is
posted, at each of the locations described hereinabove and shall grant
immediate use of the intersection to other vehicular or pedestrian traffic in
obedience to the stop sign and after stopping, may proceed only when the
intersection can be safely entered without interference or collision with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic using a different street or roadway.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this division (C) shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed the maximum amount set or required by State of Texas law.
      (3)   This division (C) shall be published as required by law and shall
then be in full force and effect after the date of its publication and it is so
ordained.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Stop signs conforming to state law shall be placed at the
following locations:
            1.   In the eastbound lane of Mountain Ridge Court West at its
intersection with Western Trails Road;
            2.   In the westbound lane of Mountain Ridge Court East at its
intersection with Western Trails Road;
            3.   In the eastbound lane of Trailside Court West at its
intersection with Western Trails Road; and
            4.   In the westbound lane of Trailside Court East at its
intersection with Western Trails Road.
         (b)   An operator of a vehicle, motor vehicle, truck, moped, bicycle,
or any other mode of transportation of persons or property shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line or if there is not a clearly marked stop line, then at
a place nearest the intersection, at each of the locations described
hereinabove and shall grant immediate use of the intersection to other
vehicular or pedestrian traffic in obedience to the stop sign and after
stopping, may proceed only when the intersection can be safely entered without
interference or collision with vehicular or pedestrian traffic using a
different street or roadway.
      (2)   Any person violating any provision of this division (D) shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed the maximum amount set or required by State of Texas law.
      (3)   This division (D) shall be published as required by law and shall
then be in full force and effect after the date of its publication and it is so
ordained.
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Stop signs conforming to state law shall be placed at the
following locations:
            1.   In the westbound lane(s) of traffic on the F.M. 1886 bridge
crossing Highway 199 at its intersection with the eastbound lanes of traffic on
the south service road of Highway 199;
            2.   In the eastbound lanes of traffic in the 8900 block of the
south service road of Highway 199 at its intersection with F.M. 1886;
            3.   In the eastbound lane of traffic in the 9200 block of F.M.
1886 at its intersection with the south service road of Highway 199; and
            4.   In the northbound lane of traffic of the access road to and
from the First Baptist Church of Lakeside (also called Glory Road) at its
intersection with the 9250 block of F.M. 1886.
         (b)   An operator of a vehicle, motor vehicle, truck, or moped shall
stop at a clearly marked stop line or if there is not a clearly marked stop
line, then at a place nearest the intersection, at each of the locations
described hereinabove and shall grant immediate use of the intersection to
other vehicular or pedestrian traffic in obedience to the stop sign and after
stopping, may proceed only when the intersection can be safely entered without
interference or collision with vehicular or pedestrian traffic using a
different street or roadway.
      (2)   (a)   Yield signs conforming to state law shall be placed at the
following locations:
            1.   In the eastbound lanes of traffic in the 8900 block of the
south service road of Highway 199 at its intersection with the off ramp from
Highway 199 to F.M. 1886;
            2.   In the right-hand eastbound lane of traffic in the 9200 block
of F.M. 1886 at its intersection with the south service road of Highway 199
preparatory to making a right turn onto the service road; and
            3.   In the right-hand eastbound lane of traffic in the 8900 block
of the south service road of Highway 199 at its intersection with F.M. 1886
preparatory to making a right turn on to F.M. 1886.
         (b)   An operator of a vehicle, motor vehicle, truck, or moped shall
slow to a speed reasonable under the existing conditions before reaching the
yield sign at each of the locations described hereinabove and shall yield the
right-of-way to a vehicle or pedestrian in or approaching the intersection on
another street or roadway and may proceed only when the intersection can be
safely entered without interference or collision with vehicular or pedestrian
traffic using another street or roadway.
      (3)   Any person violating any provision of this division (E) shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed the maximum amount set or required by State of Texas law.
      (4)   This division (E) shall be published as required by law and shall
then be in full force and effect after the date of its publication and it is so
ordained.
   (F)   (1)   Stop signs shall be erected at the following street locations
within the corporate town limits of the Town of Lakeside, Texas:
On Aquilla Drive at its intersection with F.M. 1886
On Paint Brush Road at its intersection with F.M. 1886
On Lakeridge Road at its intersection with F.M. 1886
On Townes Drive at its intersection with F.M. 1886
On Vanshire Road West at its intersection with F.M. 1886
At all four corners of the intersection of Lake Ridge Road and Crestridge Road
and Crestridge Circle
At all four corners of the intersection of Emily Drive and Lake Ridge Road
At all four corners of the intersection of Claiborn Street and Brooks Baker
Avenue
On Brookes Baker Avenue at its intersection with Watercress Road
On Crestridge Road at its intersection with Aauilla Drive
On the northbound and southbound lanes of Paint Brush Road at its intersection
with Aquilla Drive
On Holt Street at its intersection with Rankin Road
On Claiborn Street at its intersection with Rankin Road
On Vanshire Road East at its intersection with Live Oak Road
On Live Oak Road at its intersection with F.M. 1886
On Old Gate Road at its intersection with Silver Creek Road
On Western Trails Road at its intersection with F.M. 1886
On Tamarron Drive at its intersection with F.M. 1886
On Lakeside Oaks Circle at its intersection with Farm to Market Road 1886
On the eastbound lane of F.M. 1886 at its intersection with the south frontage
road of SH 199
On Townes Drive at its intersection with Lake Ridge Road
On Crestridge Circle at its intersection with the 300 block of Lake Ridge Road
On Rocky Ridge Terrace at its intersection with Lake Ridge Road
On Meandering Court at its intersection with Watercress Road
On Wren Haven Drive at its intersection with Holt Street
On Wren Haven Drive at its intersection with Claiborn Street
On Oakwood Court at its intersection with Farm to Market Road 1886
On Mary Jane Lane at its intersection with Farm to Market Road 1886
The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection named above controlled by a
stop sign shall stop and then proceed only when the driver of the vehicle may
safely enter the intersection without interference or collision with other
traffic at the intersection.
 
      (2)   Yield right-of-way signs shall be erected at the following street
locations within the corporate town limits of the Town of Lakeside, Texas:
On Stone Drive at its intersection with Aquilla Drive
On Cacti Drive at its intersection with Aquilla Drive
On Stone Drive at its intersection with Crestridge Drive
On Larch Street at its intersection with Brookes Baker Avenue
On Live Oak Road at its intersection with Vanshire Road West
On Rocky Ridge Terrace at its intersection with Crestridge Circle
On Cacti Drive at its intersection with Crestridge Drive
On Larch Street at its intersection with Claiborn Street
The driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection named in this division (F)
(2) controlled by a yield right-of-way sign shall yield the right-of-way to all
other vehicles at the intersection and proceed thereafter only when the driver
of the vehicle may safely enter the intersection without interference or
collision with other traffic at the intersection.
 
      (3)   Any person violating any provision of this division (F) shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in
an amount not to exceed the maximum amount set or required by State of Texas
law.
      (4)   This division (F) shall become effective and be in full force and
effect immediately after adoption and publication as provided by law and when
appropriate signs prescribed by this division (F) are erected.
(Ord. 84-A, passed 7-6-1989; Ord. 153, passed 3-11-1993; Ord. 155, passed 4-8-
1993; Ord. 181, passed 10-10-1996; Ord. 195, passed 8-13-1998; Ord. 204, passed
3-11-1999; Ord. 206, passed 6-10-1999; Ord. 262, passed 7-8-2004; Ord. 266,
passed 10-14-2004)
SCHEDULE III.  ENGINE BRAKING.
   (A)   Engine-exhaust braking prohibited.  No person may use an engine-
exhaust braking system while operating a motor vehicle within the corporate
limits of the town.  For the purpose of this schedule, the term ENGINE-EXHAUST
BRAKING SYSTEM means an engine-exhaust braking system device which converts
diesel-engine power into an air compressor and when engaged operates to slow
the vehicle, and is sometimes described or referred to as “Jake brakes”.
   (B)   This schedule shall be cumulative of all provisions of ordinances of
the Town of Lakeside, Texas, except where the provisions of this schedule are
in direct conflict with the provisions of such ordinances, in which event the
conflicting provisions of such ordinances are hereby repealed.
   (C)   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council that the
phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs, and sections of this schedule are
severable, and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this
schedule shall be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of
any court of competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect
any of the remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of
this schedule, since the same would have been enacted by the Town Council
without the incorporation in this schedule of any such unconstitutional phrase,
clause, sentence, paragraph or section.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions hereof, irrespective of whether or not the
verbiage of each section hereof contains the specific language that such
violation or failure to comply is unlawful and is an offense.  Any person who
shall violate any of the provisions of this schedule or any of the provisions
of a permit issued pursuant hereto, or who shall fail to comply with the terms
hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, on conviction thereof, be
fined in the sum not to exceed $500, or such lesser amount that may be required
by state law, and the violation of each separate provision hereof shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 325, passed 7-14-2011)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   JUNKED VEHICLES
      
93.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMAL CARE AND CONTROL
Section
General Regulations
   
90.001   Definitions
Rabies Control
   
90.025   Vaccinations
   
90.026   Certificate of vaccination
   
90.027   Rabies tags
   
90.028   Animals exposed to rabies
Annual Registration
   
90.040   Annual registration
Animal Bites to Humans
   
90.055   Reporting animal bites
   
90.056   Owner responsibility
Procedures for Animal Quarantine
   
90.070   Disposition of biting animals
   
90.071   Observation of the animal
   
90.072   Destruction of animal
   
90.073   Interruption
   
90.074   Release
   
90.075   Dangerous wild animals
   
90.076   Disposition of unclaimed, quarantined animal
Animals in City Athletic Fields
   
90.090   General regulations
Maximum Number of Dogs and Cats
   
90.105   Number of dogs and cats
   
90.106   Multi-pet permit
Kennel/Pet Shop Requirements
   
90.120   Requirements
Prohibited Animals
   
90.135   Dangerous wild animals
   
90.136   Swine
   
90.137   Livestock and fowl
   
90.138   Exceptions for keeping of certain fowl
   
90.139   Exception for educational facilities
Care and Humane Treatment of Animals
   
90.150   Care and humane treatment of animals
Animals At-Large
   
90.165   Generally
   
90.166   Confinement during estrus
   
90.167   Impoundment
Impoundment
   
90.180   Impoundment
Nuisance
   
90.195   Offensive odors
   
90.196   Animals defecating
   
90.197   Noise
   
90.198   Bees
   
90.199   Nuisance complaints
Dangerous Animals
   
90.210   Dangerous animal report
   
90.211   Determination that animal is dangerous
   
90.212   Knowledge of a dangerous animal
   
90.213   Requirements of a dangerous animal
   
90.214   Failure to comply
   
90.215   Hearing
   
90.216   Appeal
   
90.217   Registration
   
90.218   Dangerous animal ordered removed from the city
   
90.219   Attack by dangerous animal
   
90.220   Violation
   
90.221   Defenses
Fees
   
90.235   Generally
   
90.236   Impoundment and boarding
Interference with City Agents
   
90.250   Interference with city agents
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 90.001  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this article, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   ADULT DOG/CAT. Any dog or cat four months of age or older.
   ANIMAL. Any living creature, including but not limited to, dogs, cats, pigs,
horses, birds, fish, mammals, reptiles, insects, fowl and livestock, but
specifically excluding humans.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY (ACA), ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). The animal
services division of the city or its designee as determined by the city
council, which is authorized to represent and act for the city to receive
reports of animal nuisances, animals at-large, animal bites, and  other animal
matters, and to investigate bite reports, ensure quarantine of possibly rabid
animals, carry out provisions of state law pertaining to control and
eradication of rabies and otherwise enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility designated and/or operated by or for the city
for the purpose of impounding and caring for animals held under authority of
this chapter.
   AT-LARGE. Any animal of any family or breed, other than a cat, which is not
completely confined by a building, cage, container, wall, leash, rope, chain,
vehicle, or fence of sufficient construction to restrain the animal, whether on
or off the owner's premises. An animal being physically held by the owner
within the limits of the owner's private property is not an animal running at-
large.
   AT-LARGE CAT. Any cat which is off the premises of its owner and not secured
within a vehicle and/or restrained by means of a crate, carrier, leash, or
other physical apparatus to preclude the animal from making any unsolicited
contact with any person, their clothing, their property, and/or their premises.
Any cat intruding upon the property of any person other than the cat's owner
shall be deemed at-large.
   BODILY INJURY. Physical pain, illness, or any impairment of physical
condition.
   CAT. A domesticated member of the Family Felidae (felis catus).
   CITY/TOWN. The Town of Lakeside, Texas.
   CITY LIMITS. The corporate city limits of the Town of Lakeside, Texas.
   COLLAR. Any collar constructed of nylon, leather, or similar material,
specifically designed to be used for the type of animal wearing or being
restrained by it.
   CRUEL TREATMENT. Any treatment to any animal in violation of the Texas Penal
Code.
   CURRENTLY VACCINATED.
      (1)   Vaccinated for rabies and satisfying the following criteria:
      (2)   The owner of each dog or cat shall have such animal vaccinated
against rabies before four months of age and shall obtain a booster for the dog
or cat within 12-months of the initial vaccination. After the dog or cat has
received its booster, the dog or cat shall be revaccinated:
         (a)   No longer than 12 months thereafter for one-year-dose
vaccinations; or
         (b)   No longer than every 36 months thereafter for three-year-dose
vaccinations.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal that:
      (1)   Makes an unprovoked attack on a person or other domestic animal
that causes bodily injury and that occurs in a place other than an enclosure in
which the animal was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the
animal from leaving the enclosure on its own; or
      (2)   Commits unprovoked acts in a place other than an enclosure in which
the animal was being kept and that was certain to prevent the animal from
leaving the enclosure on its own and those acts cause a person to reasonably
believe that the animal will attack and cause bodily injury to that person.
   DANGEROUS WILD ANIMAL. All species of animals which commonly exist in a
natural, unconfined state and are usually not domesticated, regardless of the
circumstances or duration of captivity, including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   A lion;
      (2)   A tiger;
      (3)   An ocelot;
      (4)   A cougar;
      (5)   A leopard;
      (6)   A cheetah;
      (7)   A jaguar;
      (8)   A bobcat;
      (9)   A lynx;
      (10)   A serval;
      (11)   A caracal;
      (12)   A hyena;
      (13)   A bear;
      (14)   A coyote:
      (15)   A jackal;
      (16)   A baboon;
      (17)   A chimpanzee;
      (18)   An orangutan;
      (19)   A gorilla;
      (20)   A skunk;
      (21)   A raccoon;
      (22)   A panther;
      (23)   A fox;
      (24)   A javelina;
      (25)   A wolf;
      (26)   A python;
      (27)   A boa constrictor;
      (28)   A crocodile;
      (29)   An alligator;
      (30)   Any poisonous reptile; and
      (31)   Any hybrid of an animal listed in this definition.
   DOG. Any domesticated member of the family Canidae, but shall not include a
wolf, jackal, coyote, fox or other dangerous wild animal of this family or
hybrid thereof.
   FOWL. Chickens, turkeys, pheasant, quail, geese, ducks, ostriches, emus,
pigeons, or similar feathered animals regardless of age, sex or breed.
   FOWL SHELTER. A farm building or structure specifically designed and
constructed to constrain fowl within its confines that provides adequate space
for movement and exercise; adequate ventilation, and shelter from sun, wind,
cold, and moisture; provides sufficient shade to protect the animal from the
direct rays of the sun at all times; and which is cleaned and sanitized. FOWL
SHELTER may include, but is not limited to, a pen, coop or hutch.
   HYBRID. The product of mating two different species of animal regardless of
the number of generations born since that original mating.
   KENNEL. Any premises where any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, or selling dogs, cats, or other animals and
that is located within the corporate limits of the city on property zoned to
allow such use as outlined in the city's zoning regulations.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep, emus, and
ostriches, and any member of the order Ungulata (such as antelope, deer, bison
and camels) regardless of age, sex, size or breed.
   NUISANCE ANIMAL. Any animal which negatively impacts the health, safety,
property, or environment of another animal or person, including, but not
limited to, any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passersby or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other domestic animals;
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (4)   Is repeatedly at-large;
      (5)   Climbs upon a motor vehicle belonging to another;
      (6)   Damages private or public property not belonging to the animal's
owner;
      (7)   Barks, whines, or howls in an excessive, continuous, or untimely
fashion;
      (8)   Tears, punctures, or otherwise opens refuse containers, causing
their contents to be emptied or exposed to the elements;
      (9)   Causes fouling of the air by odor, thereby creating an unreasonable
annoyance or discomfort to a person of ordinary sensibilities in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept or harbored;
      (10)   Defecates on any property except that belonging to the animal's
owner; or
      (11)   Interferes with refuse collection or other service personnel.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation that has a right of property in an
animal or that has care, control, custody or possession of an animal or that
provides a premise to which the animal returns for food, shelter or care for a
period of three consecutive days.
   PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION. Any spectacle, display, or act or event other
than circuses in which animals perform tricks, feats, or other exhibitions of
training.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, or other entity.
   PET SHOP. An establishment offering small animals such as dogs, cats, birds,
fish, ferrets, and similar animals which are not dangerous wild animals or
livestock, for sale, and that is located within the corporate limits of the
city on property zoned to allow such use as outlined in the city's zoning
regulations.
   PROPERLY FITTED. With respect to a collar, a collar that measures the
circumference of the animal's neck plus at least one inch.
   REGISTRATION. The requirement for all dogs and cats and any animal declared
to be dangerous to be registered annually with the city, for all relevant fees
to be paid, and for all animals to be wearing appropriate city-issued
registration tag(s).
   RESTRAINT. A chain, rope, tether, leash, cable, or other device that
attaches an animal to a stationary object or trolley system.
   SECURE ENCLOSURE. A fenced area that is locked; capable of preventing the
entry of the general public, including children; capable of preventing the
escape or release of an animal; and, if applicable, clearly marked as
containing a dangerous animal.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. An injury characterized by bite wounds or ripping and
tearing of muscle and/or bodily tissues that would cause a reasonably prudent
person to seek treatment from a medical professional and would require
hospitalization without regard to whether the person actually sought medical
treatment.
   SERVICE PERSONNEL. Any person providing legitimate, authorized service to a
property including, but not limited to, public safety personnel; utility
technicians; letter carriers, couriers, or delivery personnel; plumbers,
electricians, lawn maintenance workers, pest control professionals, or
contractors; and others in comparable service professions.
   SPAY OR NEUTER. A medical procedure removing the reproductive organs or
otherwise rendering a dog or cat unable to reproduce.
   STERILIZATION. The surgical removal of the reproductive organs of a dog or
cat or the use of non-surgical methods or technologies approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration or the United States Department of
Agricultural to permanently render the animal unable to reproduce.
   SWINE. Pigs, hogs, potbellied pigs, or any member of the family Suidae.
   UNPROVOKED. The animal was not hit, kicked, struck, pulled, pinched,
squeezed, etc. by a person or an object, and the animal was not provoked or
taunted in a manner that an ordinary person would find unreasonable or
objectionable.
   VACCINATED. Properly injected with a rabies vaccine licensed for use in that
species by the United States Department of Agriculture and administered by a
veterinarian licensed to practice in the state.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
RABIES CONTROL
§ 90.025  VACCINATIONS.
   An owner of a dog, cat, or other animal for which a rabies vaccination is
commonly given shall keep the animal currently vaccinated against rabies. Any
person moving into the city from a location outside of the city shall comply
with this article within ten days after moving into the city, except when the
animal has inflicted a bite on a human within the previous ten days. In such
case, the owner of the animal shall report the bite to the veterinarian and the
city's ACA within 24-hours of the animal's arrival in the city. No rabies
vaccine shall be administered until after the ten-day observation period.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.026  CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION.
   Upon vaccination, the veterinarian shall execute and furnish to the owner of
the animal as evidence thereof a vaccination certificate on a form furnished by
the veterinarian. The veterinarian shall retain a duplicate copy. The
certificate shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the vaccinated
animal;
   (B)   The date of vaccination;
   (C)   The year and number of the rabies tag; and
   (D)   The breed, age, color and sex of the vaccinated animal.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.027  RABIES TAGS.
   (A)   Concurrent with the issuance and delivery of the certificate of
vaccination referred to in §
90.025, the owner of the animal shall:
      (1)   Outfit the animal with a collar or harness;
      (2)   Affix a metal tag, serially numbered to correspond with the
vaccination certificate number, bearing the year of issuance and the name and
address of the issuing veterinarian to the collar or harness; and
      (3)   Require the animal to wear the collar or harness with the attached
metal tag at all times.
   (B)   Duplicate tags. In the event of loss or destruction of the original
tag provided in this section, the owner of the animal shall obtain a duplicate
tag from the veterinarian who administered the vaccination. Vaccination
certificates and tags shall be valid only for the animal for which they were
originally issued.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.028  ANIMALS EXPOSED TO RABIES.
   Any person having knowledge of the existence of any animal known to have
been, or suspected of being, exposed to rabies shall report such knowledge to
the ACA within 24-hours, giving any information which may be required. Any
animal that has been, or is suspected of having been, exposed to rabies shall
be quarantined in accordance with Tex. Health and Safety Code, Ch. 826.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
ANNUAL REGISTRATION
§ 90.040  ANNUAL REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Required. The owner of a dog or cat that is four months of age or
older must register each such dog or cat with the city. A registration may be
obtained in person or by mail upon providing:
      (1)   A certificate of vaccination for the cat or dog showing that the
cat or dog has received a rabies vaccination within the last 36-months and
including the following information:
         (a)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the
vaccinated dog or cat;
         (b)   The date of vaccination;
         (c)   The year and number of the rabies tag;
         (d)   The breed, age, color, and sex of the vaccinated dog or cat; and
         (e)   Whether the dog or cat is neutered, spayed, or intact; and
      (2)   The payment of the registration fee as set by the City Council.
   (B)   Metal tag. The city will issue a metal tag for the dog or cat upon the
registration. The owner of the dog or cat shall attach the current registration
tag to a collar or harness that is worn at all times by the dog or cat. All
registration tags shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
issuance.
   (C)   Duplicate tags. The owner of a dog or cat may obtain a duplicate
registration tag upon payment of a duplicate tag fee and presentation of the
receipt showing payment of the current year's registration fee.
   (D)   Renewal. The owner of a dog or cat shall annually renew the
registration with the city. The same proof of current rabies vaccination and
payment of the registration fee that is required for the initial registration
is required for a renewal.
   (E)   New residents. A person moving into the city from an area outside of
the city has 30-days to comply with this section.
   (F)   Guard or attack dogs. The owner of a guard or attack dog shall:
      (1)   Indicate on the registration application that the dog is a guard or
attack dog and the location and hours of presence of the dog;
      (2)   Register the guard or attack dog with the Police Department; and
      (3)   Conspicuously post warning signs stating “guard dog on premises” in
letters not less than two inches high at the location or premises where the
guard or attack dog is confined.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
ANIMAL BITES TO HUMANS
§ 90.055  REPORTING ANIMAL BITES.
   (A)   A person having knowledge of an animal bite to a human, except bites
by rodents, rabbits, fowl, or reptiles, shall report the incident to the ACA as
soon as possible, but no later than 24-hours after the time of the incident.
The ACA will investigate each bite incident.
   (B)   Any person moving into the city from a location outside the city
limits and owning an animal which has inflicted a bite on any person in the
last ten days, shall report such fact to the veterinarian and the ACA within
24-hours of the animal's arrival in the city limits.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.056  OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   If the biting animal is owned, the owner shall place that animal in
quarantine, as prescribed in §
90.070 below.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
PROCEDURES FOR ANIMAL QUARANTINE
§ 90.070  DISPOSITION OF BITING ANIMALS.
   The owner of an animal subject to quarantine pursuant to this chapter is
required to quarantine the animal for a period of not less than ten days
confinement from the date of the bite, at the owner's expense. The quarantine
may be accomplished by:
   (A)   Quarantine in the animal shelter, supervised by the local ACA;
   (B)   Quarantine at a veterinary clinic, supervised by a licensed
veterinarian; or
   (C)   The owner of the animal may request permission from the ACA for home
quarantine, which may be granted if the following requirements are met:
      (1)   A secure enclosure approved by the ACA will be used to prevent
escape.
      (2)   The animal has been vaccinated against rabies and the time elapsed
since the most recent vaccination has not exceeded the manufacturer
recommendations for the vaccine. If an unvaccinated animal is not over 16 weeks
of age at the time of the potential exposure, it may be allowed home
confinement.
      (3)   During the confinement period, the animal's owner must monitor the
animal's behavior and health status and immediately notify the local rabies
control authority if any change is noted.
      (4)   The animal was not a stray as defined in the Tex. Health and Safety
Code, § 826.002, at the time of the potential exposure.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.071  OBSERVATION OF THE ANIMAL.
   The ACA or a licensed veterinarian must observe the animal at least on the
first and last days of the quarantine period. If the animal becomes ill during
the observation period, the person having possession of the animal shall notify
the ACA as soon as the animal presents with symptoms of any illness.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.072  DESTRUCTION OF ANIMAL.
   If the biting animal cannot be maintained in secure quarantine, it shall be
humanely destroyed, and the brain submitted to a Texas Department of State
Health Services certified laboratory for rabies diagnosis. The owner of the
animal may be requested to reimburse the expense of shipping the brain of the
animal.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.073  INTERRUPTION.
   A person commits an offense if the person interrupts the observation period
by removing an animal from the quarantine facility approved by the ACA. Any
interruption of the quarantine by any person shall be just cause for seizure
and impoundment of the quarantined animal by the ACA.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.074  RELEASE.
   (A)   An animal that has been quarantined may be released by the ACA under
the following conditions:
      (1)   At the end of the observation period, if the owner can provide
proof that the animal is currently vaccinated;
      (2)   When all applicable fees have been paid; and
      (3)   If the animal is not being impounded for legal proceedings.
   (B)   If, by the end of the observation period, the owner cannot provide
proof that the animal is currently vaccinated, the ACA will conditionally
release the animal with a voucher for rabies vaccination paid for by the
animal's owner. The owner commits an offense if (s)he does not provide proof of
vaccination to the ACA within one business day of the animal's release from
quarantine.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.075  DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS.
   No dangerous wild animal will be placed in quarantine. Any dangerous wild
animal involved in a biting incident will be humanely euthanized and the brain
shall be submitted to a Texas Department of State Health Services certified
laboratory for rabies diagnosis.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.076  DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED, QUARANTINED ANIMAL.
   The veterinarian or ACA may sell the animal and retain the proceeds or keep,
grant, or destroy an animal if the owner or custodian does not take possession
of the animal before the fourth day following the final day of the quarantine
period.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
ANIMALS IN CITY ATHLETIC FIELDS
§ 90.090  GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Dogs are prohibited within the spectator and playing field areas at
city parks. Dogs are permitted in the parking lot, pedestrian trail and other
undeveloped areas of the city parks.
   (B)   This section does not apply to a service animal if:
      (1)   The service animal is under the control of its disabled owner and
the animal does not pose a direct threat to the health or safety of others; or
      (2)   The service animal is otherwise permitted in accordance with state
or Federal law.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.105  NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
   Except as provided by this subchapter, no residence within the city shall
harbor more than four adult dogs, four adult cats, or four adult dogs and cats
in any combination. No residence within the city shall harbor more than one
litter of puppies or one litter of kittens at any given time.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.106  MULTI-PET PERMIT.
   Any person desiring to keep more than four adult dogs and/or cats or more
than one litter of puppies or kittens at a residence may apply with the ACA for
a multi-pet permit. The applicant shall pay an application fee at the time of
filing.
   (A)   The ACA is authorized to issue such a permit if the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   An applicant provides the ACA with information concerning the
maximum number of animals to be kept at any one time at such premises and a
record search indicates that no enforcement action for violations of this
chapter dealing with nuisances has been necessary within the preceding 12
months; and
      (2)   The ACA inspects the property; inspection to include interviews
with occupants of all immediately adjacent properties, and deems it appropriate
for housing multiple pets based on criteria including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Facilities shall be of sufficient size as to allow each animal
to move about freely. Size of the facility shall be in proportion to the size
of the individual animal's height and weight.
         (b)   Adequate food and water must be provided so that each and all
animals kept shall be maintained in good health and free of malnutrition and/or
dehydration.
         (c)   The said premises shall be kept in a sanitary condition and
reasonably free of animal waste, parasites, insects, and flies that could be
harmful to the animal's health and/or to the health of the general public.
         (d)   The animals and the facility must be kept free of odor or stench
which is offensive to a person of ordinary sensibilities.
         (e)   The animals must be maintained in a manner which does not pose a
danger to the health of the animals themselves or adjacent animals.
         (f)   The animals must not cause noise which is offensive or
disturbing to a person of ordinary sensibilities on adjoining or adjacent
premises.
         (g)   All animals must be vaccinated and must always wear current tags
in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Fees for the issuance of a multi-pet permit shall be set by City
Council.
   (C)   Such permit may be revoked by the ACA for cause, including but not
limited to, violations of the provisions of this chapter or the inability of
the permit holder to keep the animals in a healthy or sanitary environment.
   (D)   Multi-pet permits must be renewed annually, and each renewal will
require inspection and approval by the ACA or its designee.
   (E)   Any person either denied a multi-pet permit, or who has had their
permit revoked, may file an appeal with the Town Administrator. Such appeal
must be made in writing within ten days of receiving written notice from the
ACA of the permit denial or revocation. If no appeal request is filed within
the ten-day period, the denial or revocation of the permit becomes final. Upon
receiving an appeal, the Town Administrator or his/her designee shall hold a
hearing at a time and place of his/her designation. Based upon the recorded
evidence of such hearing, the Town Administrator or his/her designee shall make
a final finding.
   (F)   Changes in residence or ownership. Multi-pet permits are issued for
specific owners of a specific property. Application for a new multi-pet permit
will be required if:
      (1)   The original permit holder moves to a new residence within the city
limits and wishes to keep more than four adult dogs/cats or more than one
litter of puppies/kittens on the new property; or
      (2)   Ownership of the property for which a permit was originally issued
changes and the new owners desire to keep more than four adult dogs/cats or
more than one litter of puppies/kittens.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
KENNEL/PET SHOP REQUIREMENTS
§ 90.120  REQUIREMENTS.
   Kennels and pet shops must be operated, and all animals must be cared for in
accordance with the Texas Health and Safety Code and this chapter.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
PROHIBITED ANIMALS
§ 90.135  DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS.
   A person commits an offense if the person keeps a dangerous wild animal
within the city. It is an affirmative defense to prosecution for this violation
that the dangerous wild animal is kept as part of a circus, performing animal
exhibition, zoological park, or to individuals keeping wild animals as properly
permitted wildlife rehabilitators, as required by state and Federal
regulations.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.136  SWINE.
   See
Chapter 91.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.137  LIVESTOCK AND FOWL.
   See
Chapter 91.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.138  EXCEPTIONS FOR KEEPING OF CERTAIN FOWL.
   See
Chapter 91.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.139  EXCEPTION FOR EDUCATIONAL FACILITIES.
   Livestock and farm animals including, sheep, swine, goats, horses and cattle
may be housed, pastured and fed within the city limits for certain educational
purposes at a high school agricultural facility. This exemption shall apply
only to facilities situated upon property that is owned and maintained by a
public-school district or a private school. The exception described herein does
not include declared dangerous animals as defined herein or by state law.
   (A)   Eligibility to keep certain animals. In order to keep any of the
animals listed in this section for educational purposes, the person responsible
for the care and feeding of the animal or animals shall be enrolled as a
student in a vocational agriculture course sanctioned by the state education
agency, and such animals must be maintained by the student as a vocational
agriculture project the maintenance of which will affect that student's grade.
   (B)   Immunizations. All animals maintained for educational purposes shall
be given any immunizations ordinarily required for the responsible maintenance
of that particular breed and species. Certification of such immunization shall
be provided by the vocational agriculture instructor upon request by a city
inspector.
   (C)   Certification to be provided on request. Certification of any animal
as a vocational agriculture project shall be provided at the request of a city
inspector by the vocational agriculture instructor.
   (D)   Applicability of other ordinances. The organization, district, or
person in charge of animals exempt under this section from the other
requirements and provisions of this article shall not be relieved of the
operation of any of the other applicable provisions of this code, including,
without limitation, those governing sanitary conditions, nuisances, and noises.
   (E)   Animals used for educational purposes must be kept within enclosures
which may include fences, corrals, barns, pens, etc., and be sufficient to meet
the sanitary standards stated herein.
   (F)   Property owners keeping swine, livestock or other animals for
educational purposes must maintain such animals in a manner that does not cause
a nuisance and create an adverse impact to neighboring properties. Potential
negative impacts on adjacent properties include odors, noise, drainage,
erosion, insects and rodents.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
CARE AND HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
§ 90.150  CARE AND HUMANE TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Owner's duty to provide food, shelter, and care. The owner or person
who has custody or control of any animal shall:
      (1)   Keep the animal in clean, sanitary, and healthy condition;
      (2)   Provide the animal sufficient nutritious and wholesome food, served
to the animal in clean containers, to maintain the animal's good health;
      (3)   Provide the animal constant and adequate supply of fresh, clean,
potable water served from a clean container that keeps the animal hydrated for
environmental conditions;
      (4)   Provide the animal care and veterinarian medical treatment for
injuries, parasites, and disease that is sufficient to maintain the animal in
good health and minimize and prevent suffering;
      (5)   Maintain the animal's shelter (pens, kennels, coops, fenced areas
and enclosures of any kind) in sanitary condition, including, but not limited
to, disposing all animal waste promptly, and all pens and enclosures shall be
cleaned as needed to prevent odors and not attract insects or other vermin or
create a nuisance; and
      (6)   Provide the animal with adequate shelter that:
         (a)   Is large enough for the animal to enter, stand, turn around, and
lie down in a natural manner;
         (b)   Keeps the animal dry;
         (c)   Provides the animal natural or artificial shade from direct
sunlight;
         (d)   Protects the animal from excessive heat and cold and other
adverse weather conditions; and
         (e)   Is adequately ventilated.
   (B)   Abuse of animals prohibited. No person shall beat, cruelly ill-treat,
torment, mentally abuse, overload, overwork, or otherwise abuse an animal, or
cause, instigate or permit any dog fight, cock fight, or other combat between
animals or between animals and humans.
   (C)   Abandoning an animal. It shall be unlawful for an owner or other
person having custody or control of any animal to abandon such animal,
including the abandonment of any animal at the animal control facility.
   (D)   Cropping, docking, or castrating. It shall be unlawful for a person
other than a licensed veterinarian to crop a dog's ears, dock an animal's tail;
or castrate an animal; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to
normal livestock operations occurring within the city.
   (E)   Striking animal with vehicle. The operator of any motor vehicle which
strikes or injures a domesticated animal shall stop and immediately render aid
and report such incident to the ACA or the police.
   (F)   Tying dogs and other animals. A person commits an offense if the
person ties or tethers a dog or other animal in an unenclosed front or back
yard, or by a fixed point, chain, or tether so as to create, as determined by
the ACA, an unhealthy situation for the animal or a potentially dangerous
situation for a person or another animal. A person restraining a dog with a
chain or tether shall attach the chain or tether to a properly fitted collar,
not wrap a chain or tether directly around the animal's neck.
      (1)   An owner may not leave an animal outside and unattended by use of a
restraint that unreasonably limits the animal's movement:
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.;
         (b)   Within 500 feet of the premises of a school; or
         (c)   In the case of extreme weather conditions, including conditions
in which:
            1.   The actual or effective outdoor temperature is below 32°
Fahrenheit;
            2.   A heat advisory has been issued by a local or state authority
or jurisdiction; or
            3.   A hurricane, tropical storm, or tornado warning has been
issued for the jurisdiction by the National Weather Service.
      (2)   A restraint unreasonably limits an animal's movement if the
restraint:
         (a)   Uses a collar that is pinch-type, prong-type, or choke-type or
that is not properly fitted to the animal;
         (b)   Is a length shorter than the greater of:
            1.   Five times the length of the animal, as measured from tip of
the animal's nose to the base of its tail; or
            2.   Ten feet;
         (c)   Is in an unsafe condition; or
         (d)   Causes injury to the animal.
      (3)   Exceptions. Divisions (F)(2)(b)1. and (F)(2)(b)2. above do not
apply to:
         (a)   An animal restrained to a running line, pulley, or trolley
system and that is not restrained to the running line, pulley, or trolley
system by means of a pinch-type, prong-type, choke-type, or improperly fitted
collar;
         (b)   An animal restrained in compliance with the requirements of a
camping or recreational area as defined by a Federal, state, or local authority
or jurisdiction;
         (c)   An animal restrained for a reasonable period, not to exceed
three hours in a 24-hour period, and no longer than is necessary for the owner
to complete a temporary task that requires the animal to be restrained;
         (d)   An animal restrained while the owner is engaged in, or actively
training for, an activity that is conducted pursuant to a valid license issued
by the state if the activity for which the license is issued is associated with
the use or presence of the animal;
         (e)   An animal restrained while the owner is engaged in conduct
directly related to the business of shepherding or herding cattle or livestock;
or
         (f)   An animal restrained while the owner is engaged in conduct
directly relating to the business of cultivating agricultural products, if the
restraint is reasonably necessary for the safety of the animal.
      (4)   A restrained animal must have access to water and shelter from the
elements, have a restraint that does not become entangled, and stay within the
owner's property.
      (5)   Penalty.
         (a)   A peace officer or ACO who has probable cause to believe that an
owner is violating this section shall provide the owner with a written
statement of that fact. The statement must be signed by the officer and plainly
state the date on which and the time at which the statement is provided to the
owner.
         (b)   A person commits an offense if the person is provided a
statement as described in division (F)(5)(a) and fails to comply with this
section within 24-hours of the time the owner is provided the statement. An
offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor.
         (c)   A person commits an offense if the person violates this section
and has previously been convicted of an offense under this section. An offense
under this section is a Class B misdemeanor as provided in Tex. Health and
Safety Code, § 821.079.
         (d)   If a person fails to comply with this section with respect to
more than one animal, the person's conduct with respect to each animal
constitutes a separate offense.
         (e)   If conduct constituting an offense under this section also
constitutes an offense under any other law, the actor may be prosecuted under
this section, the other law, or both.
      (6)   Hand-held leashes. This section does not prohibit a person from
walking an animal with a hand-held leash.
   (G)   Fences/enclosures. A person commits an offense if the person keeps a
dog or other animal within a fence/enclosure which is in such a state of
disrepair that the animal may escape or be injured or may pose a threat to
passersby.
   (H)   Young rabbits and fowl. A person commits an offense if the person
sells, offers for sale, barters or gives away as toys, premiums or novelties,
baby chickens, ducklings or other fowl under three weeks old and rabbits under
two months old, unless the manner or method of display is first approved by the
ACA.
   (I)   Dyed animals. A person commits an offense if the person colors, dyes,
stains or otherwise changes the natural color of any chickens, ducklings, other
fowl or rabbits, or possesses, for the purpose of sale or to be given away, any
of the above-mentioned animals which have been so colored.
   (J)   Animals not to be used as prizes or inducements. A person commits an
offense if the person gives away or auctions any animal as a prize for, or as
an inducement to enter any contest, game or competition, or as an inducement to
enter a place of amusement or offer such animal as an incentive to enter into
any business establishment whereby the offer was for the purpose of attracting
trade.
   (K)   Hunting and trapping. No person may hunt, trap, wound, kill, maim,
torture or otherwise threaten the health and safety of any indigenous wild
animal in the city limits, excluding the trapping of nuisance wildlife under
the authorization and supervision of the ACA; also excluding any person who
holds a seasonal hunting license for a species for which there exists a hunting
season, and that person's hunting activities occur on property which is
properly zoned, and property owner's permission has been granted for such
activity; or a person holds proper permits issued by the ACA or Texas Parks and
Wildlife.
   (L)   Animals in parked vehicles. A person commits an offense if the person
leaves any animal in any standing or parked vehicle in such a way as to
endanger the animal's health, safety or welfare. The ACA or peace officer is
authorized to use reasonable force to remove an animal from a vehicle whenever
it appears the animal's health, safety or welfare is or soon will be
endangered, and said animal shall be impounded.
   (M)   Seizure. The ACA shall liberally utilize the authority granted by Tex.
Health and Safety Code, § 821.022 to seize and impound any animal, if the ACA
has reason to believe that an animal has been or is being cruelly treated,
pending a hearing before the municipal court on the issues of cruelty and
disposition of the animal. Seizure of the subject animal prior to receiving a
warrant is hereby authorized if such delay endangers the life of or would
unreasonably prolong the suffering of the subject animal.
   (N)   Displaying for commercial purposes.
      (1)   A person commits an offense if the person displays any live animal
for a commercial purpose on any roadside, public right-of-way, or commercial
parking lot. Commercial purpose shall include, but not be limited to, intent to
sell, trade, barter, lease, rent, or give away, any live animal.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if the person receives any live animal
through sale, trade, barter, lease, rent, or give away conducted on any
roadside, public right-of-way, or commercial parking lot.
   (O)   Class A misdemeanors. A person commits a Class A misdemeanor offense
if that person violates V.T.C.A., Penal Code, §§ 42.09, 42.091, or 42.092, as
currently written or as may be amended.
   (P)   Class C misdemeanors. The ACA shall determine whether to file a
violation of this section as a Class C misdemeanor or Class A misdemeanor
depending on the degree of abuse or neglect.
   (Q)   Other law. The actions prohibited by this section are in addition to
any prohibitions existing elsewhere in this code or any applicable state or
Federal law. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit any duty
imposed on an owner by any other provisions of this code or any applicable
state or Federal law.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
ANIMALS AT-LARGE
§ 90.165  GENERALLY.
   An owner of any animal commits an offense if the animal is at-large. For
purposes of this section, an offense occurs without regard to any culpable
mental state of the owner and there shall be an irrebuttable presumption that
any animal which is at-large shall have become so by the permission of its
owner or harborer.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.166  CONFINEMENT DURING ESTRUS.
   Any non-spayed female dog or cat in the state of estrus (heat) shall be
confined during such period of time in a house, building, or secure enclosure,
and such enclosure shall be so constructed that no other dog or cat from
outside such enclosure may gain access to the confined animal, other than as
intended for planned breeding. Owners not complying may be ordered by the ACA
to remove the animal in heat to a boarding kennel, veterinary hospital, or
animal shelter for the duration of estrus. All expenses incurred as a result of
such confinement shall be the responsibility of the owner. Failure to comply
with the removal order of the ACA shall be a violation of this chapter and the
dog or cat may be impounded.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.167  IMPOUNDMENT.
   The ACA is authorized to impound any animal at-large.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.180  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Reasons for impoundment.
      (1)   Any animal found in violation of this chapter, any other ordinance
of the city, or any law, rule or regulation of the state or the United States
may be impounded and taken to the city's animal control facility.
      (2)   Any animal found being kept under conditions which could endanger
the life or health of a person or animal, such as a rabid animal may be
impounded and taken to the city's animal control facility.
      (3)   Any animal found abandoned within an enclosure in the city may be
impounded and taken to the city's animal control facility 48-hours after
posting notice on the enclosure.
      (4)   Any officer enforcing this chapter may enter private property and
impound any animal under exigent circumstances if the officer reasonably
believes it to be necessary to protect the life of the animal.
   (B)   Notification of owner. Upon impoundment of an animal, the ACO shall
make reasonable efforts to contact the owner of the animal if the owner is
known.
   (C)   Redemption of animal. Unless the animal is authorized to be held under
another section of this chapter, the owner of an animal may redeem the animal
from the city's animal control facility upon providing proof of compliance with
the registration and vaccination requirements of this chapter and the payment
of all impoundment fees, handling fees, and any veterinary expenses incurred.
   (D)   Disposition of unclaimed animals.
      (1)   If the owner of an impounded animal does not redeem the animal
within 72-hours after notification of the owner, or within 72-hours from the
time of impoundment if the owner is unknown, the animal is deemed to be
abandoned. The owner is divested of ownership of the animal, and the city is
deemed to be the owner of the animal.
      (2)   Any animals abandoned under this section shall be given away, put
up for adoption, euthanized, or disposed of in a humane manner, at the
discretion of the ACO.
      (3)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the ACO may
immediately transfer any cats believe to be feral cats to the Humane Society of
North Texas for treatment or other disposition.
   (E)   Adoption of animals.
      (1)   The ACA or the contracted veterinarian shall be the sole judge as
to whether a cat or dog is healthy enough for adoption, and its health and age
adequate for vaccination. However, such decision by the ACA shall not
constitute a warranty of the health or age of the animal.
      (2)   All dogs and cats which are adopted through the city animal shelter
shall be sterilized/altered to prevent reproduction in that animal provided the
animal is eight weeks or older or two pounds or more in body weight.
      (3)   All dogs and cats which are adopted through the city animal shelter
and are over four months of age shall be vaccinated for rabies.
      (4)   If an animal is already altered, the animal can be released from
the shelter the same day of the adoption.
      (5)   Adopted animals must be surgically altered by the date indicated in
the adoption contract, at the expense of the adopter.
      (6)   The ACA reserves the right to refuse to adopt any animal if it is
believed that the adoption may create a risk to the animal's health and safety.
      (7)   Failing to comply with the terms of the adoption contract will
constitute violation of this section.
   (F)   Disposal of dangerous wild animals. Any dangerous wild animal may be
immediately, humanely disposed of as deemed appropriate by the ACA if the
dangerous wild animal cannot be safely impounded.
   (G)   Baby animals. Any nursing baby animal impounded without the mother or
where the mother cannot or refuses to provide adequate nutrition and the baby
animal is suffering may be immediately euthanized or given to a nonprofit
humane organization for the purpose of veterinary care, as determined by the
ACA.
   (H)   Owner relinquishing responsibility. An owner who no longer wishes
responsibility for an animal may sign a written waiver supplied by the ACA
allowing the animal to be immediately euthanized in a humane manner, adopted,
sold, or care and custody may be transferred to a nonprofit animal welfare
organization approved by the ACA.
   (I)   Injured animals. Any impounded animal that appears to be suffering
from injury or illness may be transferred to a non-profit animal welfare
organization, approved by the ACA, for the purpose of veterinary medical care,
as determined by the ACA.
   (J)   Animals of prisoners.
      (1)   Any person who is taken into custody by the city's Police
Department or other law enforcement personnel and having in his/her possession
an animal shall be notified that the animal will be transferred to the ACA
shelter.
      (2)   During confinement of said person, the animal will be taken care of
by the ACA. The animal must be redeemed from impoundment within five business
days from the time of the incarceration of the owner, at no charge to the
owner. If the animal has not been redeemed within the five-day period, then the
animal becomes the property of the city and may be euthanized, adopted, sold,
or transferred to a nonprofit animal welfare organization approved by the ACA.
      (3)   No person shall be able to redeem an animal taken possession of
pursuant to this section, except the owner or owner's duly authorized designee.
      (4)   An animal may be kept at the ACA shelter for a period of time
exceeding five business days if, in the discretion of the ACA, there is a
possibility of reuniting the animal with its owner within a reasonable amount
of time.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
NUISANCE
§ 90.195  OFFENSIVE ODORS.
   A person commits an offense if the person keeps any animal in such a manner
as to endanger the public health, or to annoy a person of ordinary
sensibilities by the accumulation of animal wastes which cause foul or
offensive odors or are a hazard to any other animal or human.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.196  ANIMALS DEFECATING.
   An owner of an animal commits an offense if the person permits, either
willfully or through failure to exercise proper care and control, any animal to
defecate upon the sidewalk or parkway or any public street, or upon the floor
of any common hall in any entrance way, stairway or wall of any public place or
building or any private property except the owners. It shall be an affirmative
defense to prosecution under this section if the owner immediately removes any
excreta deposited by the owner's animal or the animals are performing in a
parade or circus.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.197  NOISE.
   A person commits an offense by keeping any animal or bird which, by causing
frequent or long, continued noise, shall disturb the comfort of a person of
ordinary sensibilities.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.198  BEES.
   The keeping of bees in such manner as to deny the lawful use of adjacent
property or endanger personal health and welfare is prohibited.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.199  NUISANCE COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Generally. The presence of nuisance animals should be reported to the
ACA.
   (B)   Humane traps. If a person shall report a nuisance animal, the ACA may
provide the person a trap to set for the animal. The ACA may, upon capture,
impound the animal.
   (C)   Nuisance barking or another animal noise. Animal noise nuisances
should be reported to the ACA or Police Department.
   (D)   For someone other than the ACA or a peace officer to file a formal
complaint regarding an animal-related noise nuisance, that person must file a
complaint with the Municipal Court Clerk. The complainant may be required to
appear in Municipal Court as a witness on the date specified by the Court.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 90.210  DANGEROUS ANIMAL REPORT.
   (A)   The ACO may receive a report concerning a dangerous animal. Such
report and any supporting statement must be in writing and sworn to.
   (B)   The ACO shall investigate all reports filed under this section and may
issue sworn reports based on the ACA's investigation or observation.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.211  DETERMINATION THAT ANIMAL IS DANGEROUS.
   (A)   If a person reports an incident described by §
90.210, the ACO shall investigate the incident. If, after receiving the sworn
statements of any witnesses, the ACO determines the animal is a dangerous
animal, the ACO shall notify the owner in writing of the determination.
   (B)   An owner, not later than the th day after the date the owner is
notified that an animal owned by the owner is a dangerous animal, may appeal
the determination of the ACO to the Municipal Court.
   (C)   To file an appeal under division (B) above, the owner must:
      (1)   File a notice of appeal of the ACO's dangerous animal determination
with the court;
      (2)   Attach a copy of the determination from the ACO; and
      (3)   Serve a copy of the notice of appeal on the ACO by mailing the
notice through the United States Postal Service.
   (D)   Upon filing an appeal under division (B) above, the owner shall
immediately deliver the animal to the city's animal control facility and the
city shall provide for the impoundment of the animal in secure and humane
conditions pending the result of a hearing under §
90.215.
   (E)   If the owner fails to deliver the animal as required by division (D)
above, the court shall issue a warrant authorizing the seizure of the animal.
The ACO shall seize the animal or order its seizure and shall provide for the
impoundment of the animal in secure and humane conditions. The owner may be
ordered to pay any cost or fee assessed by the city related to the seizure,
acceptance, impoundment, or destruction of the animal. The City Council of the
city may prescribe the amount of the fees.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.212  KNOWLEDGE OF A DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   For purposes of this chapter, a person learns he or she is the owner of a
dangerous animal and is subject to the requirements in §
90.213 upon the occurrence of any of the following:
   (A)   The owner knows of an attack described in the definition of dangerous
animal found in §
90.210;
   (B)   The owner is notified by the ACO that the animal is a dangerous
animal; or
   (C)   The owner is notified by the municipal court that the court has upheld
the ACO's determination that the animal is a dangerous animal.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.213  REQUIREMENTS OF A DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   Not later than the thirtieth day after a person learns that the person
is the owner of a dangerous animal:
      (1)   The person shall:
         (a)   Register the dangerous animal with the ACA for the city;
         (b)   Restrain the dangerous animal at all times on a leash in the
immediate control of a person capable of controlling the dangerous animal or in
a secure enclosure;
         (c)   Obtain liability insurance coverage or show financial
responsibility in an amount of at least $100,000 to cover damages resulting
from an attack by the dangerous animal causing bodily injury to a person and
provide proof of the required liability insurance coverage or financial
responsibility to the ACA for the area in which the animal is kept; and
         (d)   Comply with all other applicable city regulations, requirements,
or restrictions on dangerous animals; or
      (2)   The person shall deliver the animal to the ACA and the ACA shall
provide for the impoundment of the animal in humane and secure conditions.
   (B)   Once in compliance with division (A) above, the owner of a dangerous
animal shall maintain compliance with division (A) above at all times
thereafter.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.214  FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Any person may make a sworn application to the municipal court that
the owner of a dangerous animal has failed to comply with §
90.135 or that a dangerous animal has attacked a person or another animal.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a sworn application under this section, the court
shall order the ACO to seize the dangerous animal and shall issue a warrant
authorizing the seizure. The ACO officer shall seize the dangerous animal or
order its seizure and shall provide for the impoundment of the dangerous animal
in secure and humane conditions. The owner may be ordered to pay any cost or
fee assessed by the city related to the seizure, acceptance, impoundment, or
destruction of the dangerous animal. The governing body of the city may
prescribe the amount of the fees.
   (C)   If, after a hearing on an application filed under this section, the
municipal court finds that the owner of the dangerous animal has failed to
comply with §
90.135 or that the dangerous animal has attacked a person or another animal,
the municipal court shall order the ACO to humanely destroy the dangerous
animal or that the dangerous animal be permanently removed from the city. The
court shall also order the owner of the dangerous animal to pay all costs or
fees assessed by the city related to the seizure, acceptance, impoundment, and
destruction of the dangerous animal due to the sworn complaint filed under this
section.
   (D)   If, after a hearing on an application filed under this section, the
municipal court finds that the owner of the dangerous animal has not failed to
comply with §
90.135 and that the dangerous animal has not attacked a person or a
domesticated animal, the municipal court shall order that the ACO immediately
release the dangerous animal to the owner, and the owner shall not be
responsible for the costs of seizure or impoundment of the dangerous animal due
to the sworn complaint filed under this section.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other law or local regulation, a dangerous animal
shall not be destroyed during the pendency of an appeal under §
90.216.
   (F)   If the owner of a dangerous animal seized due to a sworn application
filed under this section cannot be located before the fifteenth day after the
seizure and impoundment of the dangerous animal, the dangerous animal shall be
considered abandoned and the city shall be deemed the owner of the dangerous
animal. The court may order the humane destruction of a dangerous animal
abandoned under this section upon application of the ACA, without a hearing.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.215  HEARING.
   (A)   The court, on receiving notice of appeal under §
90.211(B) or a sworn application under §
90.214(A), shall set a time for a hearing to determine whether the animal is a
dangerous animal or whether the owner of the animal has complied with §
90.213 or has attacked a person or a domesticated animal. A hearing under this
section must be held not later than the tenth day after the date on which the
animal is seized or delivered.
   (B)   The court shall give written notice of the time and place of the
hearing to:
      (1)   The owner of the animal or the person from whom the animal was
seized or who delivered the animal;
      (2)   The person who made the report or filed the application; and
      (3)   The ACO.
   (C)   Any interested party, including the city attorney, is entitled to
present evidence at the hearing.
   (D)   The court shall determine the estimated costs to house and care for
the impounded animal during any appeal process and shall set the amount of bond
for an appeal adequate to cover those estimated costs.
   (E)   An owner or the person who made the report or filed the application
may appeal the decision of the municipal court in the manner described by §
90.216.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.216  APPEAL.
   (A)   A party to an appeal under §
90.211(B) or a hearing on an application filed under §
90.214(A) may appeal the decision to a county court or county court at law in
the county in which the municipal court is located and is entitled to a jury
trial on request.
   (B)   As a condition of perfecting an appeal, not later than the tenth
calendar day after the date the decision is issued by the municipal court, the
appellant must file a notice of appeal and, if applicable, an appeal bond in
the amount determined by the municipal court from which the appeal is taken.
   (C)   Notwithstanding Tex. Gov’t Code, § 30.00014, or any other law, a
person filing an appeal from a Municipal Court under division (A) is not
required to file a motion for a new trial to perfect an appeal.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other law, a county court or a county court at law
has jurisdiction to hear an appeal filed under this section.
   (E)   A decision of a county court or county court at law under this section
may be appealed in the same manner as an appeal for any other case in a county
court or county court at law.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.217  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The city shall annually register a dangerous animal if the owner:
      (1)   Presents proof of:
         (a)   Liability insurance or financial responsibility, as required by
§
90.213;
         (b)   Current rabies vaccination of the dangerous animal; and
         (c)   The secure enclosure in which the dangerous animal will be kept;
and
      (2)   Pays the annual registration fee.
   (B)   The city shall provide to the owner registering a dangerous animal a
registration tag. The owner of the dangerous animal shall attach the current
registration tag to a collar or harness that is worn at all time by the
dangerous animal.
   (C)   If an owner of a registered dangerous animal sells or moves the
dangerous animal to a new address, the owner, not later than the fourteenth day
after the date of the sale or move, shall notify the ACO of the new address. On
presentation by the new owner of the dangerous animal's prior registration tag
and payment of dangerous animal registration transfer fee, the city shall issue
a new registration tag.
   (D)   An owner of a dangerous animal shall notify the ACO of any attacks the
dangerous animal makes on people or other animals.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.218  DANGEROUS ANIMAL ORDERED REMOVED FROM THE CITY.
   (A)   A dangerous animal ordered to be removed from the city under this
chapter must be removed from the city within ten days of the date of the order.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a person to harbor, keep, or have possession
of a dangerous animal previously ordered to be removed from the city under this
chapter within the corporate limits of the city.
   (C)   The ACO or any officer enforcing this chapter shall seize any
dangerous animal that has been ordered to be removed from the city that is
found to be at any location within the corporate limits of the city and shall
provide for the impoundment of the dangerous animal in humane and safe
conditions.
   (D)   Upon application by the ACO, without a hearing, the court shall order
that a dangerous animal be humanely destroyed if it was previously ordered to
be removed from the city and is later found to be in the city.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.219  ATTACK BY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person is the owner of a dangerous
animal and the dangerous animal makes an unprovoked attack on another person
outside the dangerous animal's enclosure and causes bodily injury to the other
person.
   (B)   An offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor.
   (C)   If a person is found guilty of an offense under this section, the
court may order the dangerous animal humanely destroyed by the ACO.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.220  VIOLATION.
   (A)   A person who owns or keeps custody or control of a dangerous animal
commits an offense if the person fails to comply with §
90.213 or any other applicable city regulation relating to dangerous animals.
   (B)   An offense under this section is a Class C misdemeanor.
   (C)   If a person is found guilty of an offense under this section, the
court may order the dangerous animal humanely destroyed by the ACO.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.221  DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §§
90.219 or
90.220 that the person is a veterinarian, a peace officer, a person employed by
a recognized animal shelter, or a person employed by the state or a political
subdivision of the state to deal with stray animals and has temporary
ownership, custody, or control of the animal in connection with that position.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under §§
90.219 or
90.220 that the person is an employee of the institutional division of the
Texas Department of Criminal Justice or a law enforcement agency and trains or
uses dogs for law enforcement or corrections purposes.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under §§
90.219 or
90.220 that the person is a dog trainer or an employee of a guard dog company
under Tex. Occupations Code, Ch. 1702.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
FEES
§ 90.235  GENERALLY.
   The City Council shall establish fees for all animal-related services
provided by the city's ACA, including those for adoption, immunization, and
multi-pet permits.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 90.236  IMPOUNDMENT AND BOARDING.
   The owner must pay all fees for impoundment, quarantine, and boarding, as
well as veterinary bills and other fees that are due to the designated animal
shelter:
Schedule of Animal Shelter Fees
Schedule of Animal Shelter Fees
Dogs, Cats and Other Small Animals             Fee  Each Additional Day
City registration and tags - 1-year tag        $8
City registration and tags - 3-year tag        $18
Dangerous animal registration and tag (annual) $100
Owner animal surrender                         $25
Multi pet -                                    $25
   1st impound                              $35  $0
   2nd impound                              $50  $0
   3rd or more impounds                     $100 $0
Animal quarantine - resident                   $150
Animal quarantine - nonresident                $200
Microchip - resident                           $10
Microchip - non-resident                       $20
   
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
INTERFERENCE WITH CITY AGENTS
§ 90.250  INTERFERENCE WITH CITY AGENTS.
   (A)   A person commits an offence if the person interferes with or hinders
any agent of the city in the performance of any duty pursuant to this chapter
or seeks to release any animal in the custody of the city or its agents, except
as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person fails to comply with any
lawful order of the ACA in the performance of any duty pursuant to this
chapter.
   (C)   A person commits a Class B misdemeanor offense under Tex. Penal Code,
§ 38.15 if the person with criminal negligence interrupts, disrupts, impedes,
or otherwise interferes with an officer with responsibility for animal control
while the officer is performing a duty or exercising authority imposed or
granted under Tex. Health and Safety Code, Chapter 821 or 822.
(Ord. 408, passed 2-14-2019)
CHAPTER 91:  NUISANCES
Section
Livestock Nuisances
   
91.01   Generally
   
91.02   Exceptions
   
91.03   Variances
   
91.04   Publication
   
91.05   Effective date
Nuisances; Generally
   
91.20   Definitions
   
91.21   Stables, stalls, and the like in which manure accumulates
   
91.22   Pig pens, lots, stables, and the like
   
91.23   Keeping hogs within 500 feet of residences
   
91.24   Dog kennels within 300 feet of residences
   
91.25   Keeping chickens or other fowl within 500 feet of residences
   
91.26   Discharge of liquid waste on streets and the like
   
91.27   Accumulation of unsound meat, decayed vegetables, rubbish, and the like
   
91.28   Burning manure, straw, garbage, and the like
   
91.29   Depositing dead animals, rubbish, and the like on streets
   
91.30   Duty of police
   
91.31   Slaughter houses
   
91.32   Filthy drains, leaking garbage receptacles, manure boxes, and the like
   
91.33   Vegetable wastes, garbage, and the like on private alleys
   
91.34   Accumulation of offensive materials on lots
   
91.35   Depositing or throwing articles into sewer inlet and the like
   
91.36   Requirements as to vehicles hauling garbage, swill, or other offensive
matter
   
91.37   Ponds or pools of unwholesome water
   
91.38   Impure or unwholesome wells or cisterns
   
91.39   Abatement of nuisance
   
91.40   Failure of owner or occupant to obey orders; abatement by town; expense
to be charged against owner and constitute lien
   
91.41   Statement of expenses to be forwarded to Town Attorney; collection
   
91.42   Right of owner to appear and show cause why order should not be
complied with; extension of time
   
91.43   Power of town officials to make arrests, administer oaths, enter
premises, and the like
   
91.44   Effective date
   
91.99   Penalty
LIVESTOCK NUISANCES
§ 91.01  GENERALLY.
   (A)   The stabling, pasturing, or keeping of any sheep or goats within 100
feet of any residence, commercial building, church, restaurant, school, or
other occupied structure not owned or occupied by the owner of the animal in
the Town of Lakeside shall not be allowed and is and shall constitute a
nuisance and is unlawful.
   (B)   No horse, cow, llama, mule, donkey, antelope, or other animal of
similar size shall be allowed to be kept, stabled, or maintained on property
located in the Town of Lakeside unless the property has a minimum of five acres
on which the animal can roam or graze.  No animal shall be allowed to be
stabled, penned, or kept within 100 feet of any residence, commercial building,
school, church, hospital, or other occupied structure that is not owned or
occupied by the owner of the animal.  A violation of this division (B) is and
constitutes a nuisance.
   (C)   If a horse, cow, llama, mule, donkey, antelope, or other similar sized
animal is allowed to be kept as provided herein, then all straw, hay, bedding,
and manure used or generated in keeping the animal shall be removed from the
property on a weekly basis.
   (D)   It is provided, however, that an owner or occupier of property that
keeps and stables such animals on property that exceeds ten acres in size and
maintains no more than one animal per acre need not remove the straw, hay,
bedding, or manure on a weekly basis.  The owner or occupier of the property
is, however, charged with the duty and is obligated to maintain the property in
a condition that does not a constitute a health or sanitary nuisance or hazard
by way of smell, flies, pests, rodents, leakage, drainage, or runoff, or other
conditions that may be detrimental to the health of or adversely affecting the
quality of life of others.  A violation of this provision shall constitute a
nuisance, in addition to being subject to criminal provisions adopted herein.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The restrictions and prohibitions contained in §
91.01(A) and (B), shall not apply to any owner or occupier of property who kept
or maintained a horse, cow, llama, mule, donkey, antelope, or other animal of
similar size on the property owned or occupied by them if the animal was
present on or before 8-14-2003. The restrictions and prohibition contained in §
91.01(A) and (B), shall, however, immediately apply to any such property or
owner or occupant when:
      (1)   An animal is no longer kept or stabled on the property on a regular
basis; or
      (2)   The owner or occupier of the property who maintained and kept the
animal(s) no longer occupies the property as their principal residence.
   (B)   Nothing in the foregoing provisions is intended to permit or allow an
owner or occupier of property who is permitted to keep an animal to add to the
number of animals presently maintained on or at the property except through the
variance procedure provided herein.
   (C)   Nothing in the foregoing provisions is intended to exempt the owner or
occupier of property from all requirements with respect to the removal of
straw, hay, bedding, and manure, and the owner or occupier is and shall be
required to meet the provisions.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 91.03  VARIANCES.
   (A)   An owner or occupant who wishes to keep or maintain one or more
animals on their property that would violate one or more provisions of this
subchapter may apply to the City Council of the Town of Lakeside for a variance
from the prohibitions contained herein.  The application shall be in writing
and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name of the applicant, the address of the property where the
animal is proposed to be kept, and a statement of the size of the property;
      (2)   The type and number of animals proposed to be kept;
      (3)   A plat of the subdivision where the property is located or an
aerial photograph of the area or some other method of showing the size of the
property and its location relative to the surrounding property; and
      (4)   A description of the barn, stable, or other building where the
animal is to be kept, a to scale drawing or map or aerial photograph showing
the location of the barn, stable, or other building and the distance from the
barn, stable, or other building from all other structures located on property
contiguous to the subject property.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay a fee of $125 at the time the application is
filed with the Town Secretary.
   (C)   The town shall mail notice to all property owners and occupants
located within 300 feet of the property line of the subject property.  The
notice shall state that an application to keep and maintain one or more animals
has been filed at the address for which a variance is sought and shall further
contain a notice of the date and time that the City Council will hear and
consider the application.  The hearing before the Council shall take place no
sooner than three weeks from the date the notice to surrounding property owners
is mailed.
   (D)   At the hearing, the applicant may present his or her request and
provide the information as wished and shall respond to questions and
information from town staff or the Council.  Any other person may speak for or
against the application and offer the information as he or she wishes.  The
Council or presiding officer of the Council may place time limits on any
presentation made and shall announce the limit before the hearing begins.
   (E)   After hearing all presentations, the Council may ask for additional
information and reschedule a decision on the application until the information
is received.  The Council may not delay a decision beyond the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting date.
   (F)   The Council, in its sole discretion and by majority vote, may deny the
request or grant the request for variance.  If the request is granted, the
Council may impose the conditions, including limiting the number of animals
that may be kept, as it deems proper and necessary under the circumstances.  It
is provided, however, that in no event may the Council approve a variance that
allows a property owner to board or stable horses or other livestock for third
parties for compensation nor may a variance be granted that permits the
premises to be used for riding lessons, regardless of whether compensation is
received for same.
   (G)   If a variance is granted, then same shall be effective for a period of
one year.  On or before the expiration of the one-year period, the property
owner must again apply for a variance, provide all information required herein,
and pay the filing fee.  Notice must be given to property owners and a hearing
held on the renewal of the variance, all as provided hereinabove.  The Council
may deny the request for a renewal or it may impose additional or new
conditions in granting the renewal.
   (H)   Any variance granted is personal to the applicant only and may not be
transferred by the holder to any other person.  The holder of a variance may
not lease or rent the property so as to allow the lessee to make use of the
variance and stable or keep animals on the property.  If the property is sold
or if no animal is stabled or kept on the property for a period of three
consecutive months, the variance shall lapse and shall be of no further force
of effect.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 91.04  PUBLICATION.
   The Town Secretary is here directed and authorized to cause publication of
this subchapter as provided by law.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 91.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 282, passed 10-11-2007)
NUISANCES; GENERALLY
§ 91.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FILTHY ASH HEAPS.  Cinders, coal, and everything that usually remains after
fires and that has been mixed with garbage or filth of any kind.
   GARBAGE.  Every accumulation of both animal and vegetable matter, liquid or
otherwise, that is received from kitchens, and also all putrid and unsound
meat, beef, pork, fish, decayed or unsound vegetables or fruits.
   JUNK.  All worn out, worthless, discarded, and/or inoperable appliances,
equipment, or machinery; old iron, steel, tin, copper, and other metals in any
form; rubber and rubber tires; glass and plastic items; building or
construction material or equipment not currently being used in or on a
construction project on property for which the owner or occupant has obtained a
proper building permit; machinery, appliance or automobile pieces or parts;
boxes, barrels, and crates of any composition; other manufactured goods that
are so worn, deteriorated, or obsolete as to make them unuseable in their
existing condition other than as scrap; or any other objectionable, unsightly,
or unsanitary item which is or should be objectionable, unsightly, or
unsanitary to a person of ordinary sensitivities.
   NUISANCE.  Whatever is dangerous to human life or health, whatever renders
the ground, the water, the air, or food a hazard or injury to human life or
health or that is offensive to the senses, or that is or threatens to become
detrimental to the public health, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and the
specific acts, conditions, and things set forth in this subchapter are, among
other, each and all of them hereby declared to be nuisances and prohibited and
made unlawful.
   RUBBISH.  All loose and decayed material and dirt-like substances that
attends use or decay, of which accumulates from buildings, storing or cleaning.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969; Ord. 129, passed 2-7-1991)
§ 91.21  STABLES, STALLS, AND THE LIKE IN WHICH MANURE ACCUMULATES.
   Whenever any stable, stall, shed, or apartment, or any yard or appurtenance
thereof, in which any horse, cattle, cows, sheep, goats, swine, or any other
animal shall be kept, or any place within the corporate limits of the town in
which manure or liquid discharges of the animals shall collect or accumulate,
and which stable, stall, shed, or apartment, or any yard or appurtenance
thereof, is not kept in a clean and sanitary condition so that no offensive
smell shall be allowed to escape therefrom, it shall be deemed a nuisance,
provided, that nothing in this section shall be so construed as to include
manure deposits upon any private property for the purpose of cultivating same;
when the deposits are maintained so as to prevent the breeding of flies.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22  PIG PENS, LOTS, STABLES, AND THE LIKE.
   All pig pens, lots, stables, yards, sheds, or sties in which pigs are kept
within the corporate limits of the town to the annoyance, injury,
inconvenience, or detriment of any person within the town shall be deemed a
nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23  KEEPING HOGS WITHIN 500 FEET OF RESIDENCES.
   The keeping or maintaining of any hogs within 500 feet of any residence is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24  DOG KENNELS WITHIN 300 FEET OF RESIDENCES.
   Any dog kennels or other places where dogs are raised or boarded within 300
feet of any residence is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25  KEEPING CHICKENS OR OTHER FOWL WITHIN 500 FEET OF RESIDENCES.
   (A)   The keeping or maintaining of any chickens or other fowl in the town
within 500 feet of any residence or inhabited building shall constitute a
nuisance.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHICKENS.  Chickens, hens, chicks, roosters, or other fowl, both singular
and plural.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26  DISCHARGE OF LIQUID WASTE ON STREETS AND THE LIKE.
   Any person who shall allow to accumulate or be discharged from any place
into any public street, alley, or private property in the town, urine liquid
waste from stables, swill, water from privy vaults, water from sinks, waste
water, or any foul or nauseous liquid waste of any kind whatever, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27  ACCUMULATION OF UNSOUND MEAT, DECAYED VEGETABLES, RUBBISH, AND THE
LIKE.
   Any person either as owner, agent, lessee, or occupant of any building,
yard, or lot of ground, who shall allow to accumulate or to remain in or on the
building, yard, or lot of ground any putrid and unsound meat, pork, fish,
hides, decayed vegetables or food, manure, filthy ash heaps, garbage, offal,
rubbish, dirt, or filth of any kind which, by its decay or putrefaction, could
or would become offensive to human beings or detrimental to health or shall
create a nuisance, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28  BURNING MANURE, STRAW, GARBAGE, AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall burn on any street, alley, or other public or private
property in the town, any manure, straw, garbage, or any refuse of any kind or
description; provided, that this section shall not be applicable where an
approved incinerator is used.  Any person violating the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29  DEPOSITING DEAD ANIMALS, RUBBISH, AND THE LIKE ON STREETS.
   No person shall deposit any dead animal or excrement or filth from privies
or any hay, straw, dirt, or rubbish of any kind or description or any filthy
water or manure upon any streets, alleys, or public or private property in the
town.  Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30  DUTY OF POLICE.
   It shall be the duty of the police within their respective districts to
watch for and arrest persons throwing or permitting to be thrown from their
premises into any street, alley, market place, sidewalk, or gutter, any filth
or other matter prohibited by the next preceding section.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)
§ 91.31  SLAUGHTER HOUSES.
   The use of any premises as a slaughter house or the purpose of bone
crushing, bone boiling, bone grinding, bone burning, bone drying, fat burning,
fat boiling, fat rendering, fat drying, gut cleaning or the making of glue or
the manufacture of fertilizing material of any kind or description from any
dead animal, or parts thereof, or for the purpose of boiling any offal, swill,
fat, or grease of any description or the storage of green or unsalted hides
within the corporate limits of the Town of Lakeside shall be unlawful and shall
be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969; Ord. 129, passed 2-7-1991)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.32  FILTHY DRAINS, LEAKING GARBAGE RECEPTACLES, MANURE BOXES, AND THE
LIKE.
   Any unclean, stinking, foul, defective, or filthy drain, ditch, tank, or
gutter, or any leaking or broken slop, garbage, or manure boxes or receptacles
of like character, whenever or wherever found within the corporate limits of
the town, shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33  VEGETABLE WASTES, GARBAGE, AND THE LIKE ON PRIVATE ALLEYS.
   All vegetable waste, litter, garbage, filth, or refuse of any nature, kind,
or description whatsoever found in or upon any private alley, yard, or area
within the corporate limits of the town shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.34  ACCUMULATION OF OFFENSIVE MATERIALS ON LOTS.
   (A)   Whenever there shall be found in or upon any lot or piece of ground
within the corporate limits of the town, any dirt gathered in cleaning yards,
waste of mills or factories of any rags, damaged merchandise, wet, broken or
leaking barrels, casks, or boxes or other materials which are offensive or tend
to decay or become putrid or to render the atmosphere impure or unwholesome or
provide harbor for rats or any accumulation of grass and/or weeds growing in
excess of ten inches on any lot or property within the corporate limits of the
Town of Lakeside shall be deemed a nuisance and are hereby prohibited.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, claiming, occupying, or
having supervision or control of any real property, occupied or unoccupied,
within the corporate limits of the Town of Lakeside, to permit or allow junk to
accumulate or remain thereon and same shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969; Ord. 38-C, passed 8-6-1987; Ord. 129, passed 2-7-
1991; Ord. 230, passed 7-12-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.35  DEPOSITING OR THROWING ARTICLES INTO SEWER INLET AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall, in the town, deposit or throw into any sewer inlet or privy
vault, which has a sewer connection, any article whatever that may cause the
sewer to choke up or otherwise create a nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.36  REQUIREMENTS AS TO VEHICLES HAULING GARBAGE, SWILL, OR OTHER OFFENSIVE
MATTER.
   Every vehicle used to transport manure, garbage, swill, ashes, cinders, or
other loose material in any of the streets of the town shall be fitted with a
good and substantial tight box thereon, the sides of which shall not be less
than 24 inches high, and the tailboard 24 inches high, so that no portion of
the manure or other loose material shall be scattered or thrown into the
street.  All vehicles used for hauling garbage, swill, or other offensive
matter shall have the box thereon closely covered with sufficient covering, or
so closely fitted as to prevent the escape or flying about of any of the
contents or effluvia therefrom.  Every contractor or other person using any
vehicle, or causing any vehicle to be used for the purpose herein named, which
does not comply with the provisions of this section, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37  PONDS OR POOLS OF UNWHOLESOME WATER.
   Any lot or piece of ground within the corporate limits of the town, on which
there is a pond, pool, or container of unwholesome, impure, or offensive water,
or is conducive to the breeding of mosquitoes, shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.38  IMPURE OR UNWHOLESOME WELLS OR CISTERNS.
   Any well or cistern on any property within the corporate limits of the town,
whenever a chemical bacteriological analysis shows that the water of the well
or cistern is of impure or unwholesome nature, shall be deemed a nuisance.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.39  ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   Whenever any nuisance as defined herein exists within the corporate limits
of the Town of Lakeside, any full-time police officer or any building inspector
or any health inspector or any code enforcement officer employed by the Town of
Lakeside shall order the owner and/or occupant and/or person having supervision
or control of any property where the nuisance exists to abate or remove the
nuisance within the time as may be specified by the order, which shall be no
less than 24 hours from the time of the notice.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969; Ord. 129, passed 2-7-1991)
§ 91.40  FAILURE OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT TO OBEY ORDERS; ABATEMENT BY TOWN;
EXPENSE TO BE CHARGED AGAINST OWNER AND CONSTITUTE LIEN.
   If the owner or occupant fails, neglects, or refuses to obey the order,
under the provisions of the preceding section of this subchapter, or if the
premises are unoccupied and the owner or his or her agent cannot be found, any
full-time police officer or building inspector or health inspector or code
enforcement officer of the Town of Lakeside shall abate or remove the nuisance
and shall defray the expenses thereof out of any moneys in the town treasury
available for the purposes.  All expenses so incurred shall be charged against
the owner and shall be a lien on the lot and premises whereupon the nuisance
exists.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969; Ord. 129, passed 2-7-1991)
§ 91.41  STATEMENT OF EXPENSES TO BE FORWARDED TO TOWN ATTORNEY; COLLECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the full-time police officer or Building Inspector
or Health Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer of the Town of Lakeside to
forward to the Town Attorney a written statement of the expenditure by him or
her, under the provisions of §
91.40 in carrying out the provisions of this section, and it shall be the duty
of the town attorney to proceed without delay to foreclose the lien or
otherwise compel the owner of the premises to repay the amount thereof to the
town, together with all charges of collection.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969; Ord. 129, passed 2-7-1991)
§ 91.42  RIGHT OF OWNER TO APPEAR AND SHOW CAUSE WHY ORDER SHOULD NOT BE
COMPLIED WITH; EXTENSION OF TIME.
   Whenever an order has been given by any full-time police officer or building
inspector or health inspector or code enforcement officer of the Town of
Lakeside to abate or remove any nuisance that may exist upon any lot or
premises, under the provision of §
91.39, the owner thereof shall have the right, within the period of time given
in the order for abatement, to appear at the office of the full-time police
officer or Building Inspector or Health Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer
of the Town of Lakeside to show cause why the order should not or cannot be
complied with, and the full-time police officer or Building Inspector or Health
Inspector or Code Enforcement Officer of the Town of Lakeside may, at his or
her discretion, give the extension of time for the abatement or removal of the
nuisance as may be necessary; provided, however, there is no immediate danger
to the public health.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969; Ord. 129, passed 2-7-1991)
§ 91.43  POWER OF TOWN OFFICIALS TO MAKE ARRESTS, ADMINISTER OATHS, ENTER
PREMISES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any full-time police officer or building inspector or health inspector or
code enforcement officer of the Town of Lakeside shall have the right and power
to arrest any person who may violate the rules, regulations, orders, or
requirements of the town, or any ordinance or general laws relating to the
maintaining of the public health and sanitation of the town.  They shall have
the right to go upon the premises for the purpose of enforcing the rules and
regulations concerning the public health and the provisions of this subchapter
relating thereto or other ordinances that may by hereafter passed by the City
Council.  But in the exercise of this right, the town and its employees shall
act with good judgment and in a reasonable manner so as not to unnecessarily
invade the privacy of the homes and premises belonging to the citizens.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969; Ord. 129, passed 2-7-1991)
§ 91.44  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective from and after passage and publication
hereof.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail to
comply with any provisions of this chapter, irrespective of whether or not the
verbiage of each section thereof contains the specific language that the
violation or failure to comply is unlawful and is an offense.  Any person who
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the provisions of
a permit issued pursuant hereto, or who shall fail to comply with the terms
hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, on conviction thereof, be
fined in the sum not to exceed the maximum amount permitted by State of Texas
law, and the violation of each separate provision thereof shall be considered a
separate offense.  Each day’s continuance of a failure to comply therewith
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense for each of the days.
(Ord. 38, passed 9-8-1969; Ord. 129, passed 2-7-1991; Ord. 282, passed 10-11-
2007)
CHAPTER 92:  JUNKED VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Junked vehicles as public nuisance
   
92.03   Summary procedure for abating public nuisance
   
92.04   Vehicle not to be reconstructed or made operable
   
92.05   Notice to state
   
92.06   Violations
   
92.07   Publication
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTIQUE AUTO.  A passenger car or truck that was manufactured in 1925 or
before, or a passenger car or truck that is at least 35 years old.
   COLLECTOR.  The owner of one or more antique or special interest vehicles
who collects, purchases, acquires, trades, or disposes of special interest or
antique vehicles or parts of them for personal use in order to restore,
preserve, and maintain an antique or special interest vehicle for historic
interest.
   JUNKED VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle as defined in § 1, Chapter 42, General
Laws, Acts of the 41st Legislature, Second Called Session, 1929, (Tex.
Transportation Code, §§ 683.071 et seq.):
      (1)   That is inoperative; and
      (2)   That does not have lawfully affixed to it either an unexpired
license plate or a valid motor vehicle safety inspection certificate, that is
wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, or discarded, or remains inoperable
for a continuous period of more than 45 days.
   SPECIAL INTEREST VEHICLE.  A motor vehicle of any age that has not been
altered or modified from original manufacturer specifications and, because of
historic interest, is being preserved by a hobbyist.
(Ord. 119, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 92.02  JUNKED VEHICLES AS PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   A junked vehicle or vehicle part that is located in a place where it
is visible from a public place or public right-of-way is detrimental to the
safety and welfare of the general public, tends to reduce the value of private
property, invites vandalism, creates fire hazards, constitutes an attractive
nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, and is
detrimental to the economic welfare of the town by producing urban blight
adverse to the maintenance and continued development of the town and is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance.  It is not a public nuisance to maintain a
vehicle or a vehicle part that is completely enclosed within a building in a
lawful manner where it is not visible from the street or other public or
private property, a vehicle or a vehicle part that is stored or parked in a
lawful manner on private property in connection with a business of a licensed
vehicle dealer or junkyard, or an unlicensed, operable, or inoperable antique
or special interest vehicle stored by a collector on the collector’s property,
if the vehicle and the outdoor storage area are maintained in a manner so that
they do not constitute a health hazard and are screened from ordinary public
view by means of a fence, rapidly growing trees, or shrubbery.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if that person maintains a public nuisance
as determined under this section.  Each and every day the nuisance continues
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 119, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 92.03  SUMMARY PROCEDURE FOR ABATING PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Upon determination by the Chief of Police that a junked vehicle
located on private property constitutes a public nuisance, the Chief of Police
or his or her designee, which must be a regularly salaried, full-time employee
of the town, shall give written notice that the public nuisance must be removed
and abated within ten days of the notice or a request for a public hearing
before the City Council must be made within the ten-day period.  The written
notice shall be mailed by certified mail with a five-day return requested to
the last known registered owner of the junked vehicle, any lienholder of
record, and the owner or occupant of the private premises on which the public
nuisance exists.  If any notice is returned undelivered by the United States
Post Office, official action to abate the nuisance shall be continued to a date
not less than ten days after the date of return.
   (B)   Upon the determination by the Chief of Police that a junked vehicle
located on public property constitutes a public nuisance, the Chief of Police
or his or her designee, which must be a regularly salaried full-time employee
of the town, shall give written notice that the nuisance must be removed and
abated within ten days or a request for a public hearing before the City
Council must be made before the expiration of the ten-day period.  The notice
shall be mailed by certified mail with a five-day return requested to the last
known registered owner of the junked vehicle, any lienholder of record, and the
owner or occupant of the public premises or the owner or occupant of the
premises adjacent to the public right-of-way on which the public nuisance
exists.  If the notice is returned undelivered by the United States Post
Office, official action to abate the nuisance shall be continued to a date not
less than ten days after the date of the return.
   (C)   The notices given pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above shall also
designate a time and place at which a public hearing shall be held before the
removal of the vehicle or vehicle part as a public nuisance.  The hearing shall
be held before the Chief of Police of the town; provided, however, if a hearing
is requested by the owner or occupant of the public or private premises or
owner or occupant of the premises adjacent to the public right-of-way upon
which the vehicle is located within ten days after service of the notice to
abate the nuisance, the hearing shall be held before the City Council.  A
resolution or order requiring removal of the vehicle or the vehicle part must
include a description of the vehicle and the correct identification number and
license number of the vehicle if the information is available at the site.
(Ord. 119, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 92.04  VEHICLE NOT TO BE RECONSTRUCTED OR MADE OPERABLE.
   After a vehicle or a vehicle part has been removed pursuant to these
procedures, it shall not be reconstructed or made operable.
(Ord. 119, passed 12-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05  NOTICE TO STATE.
   The town shall give notice to the State Department of Highways and Public
Transportation not later than the fifth day after the date of removal, which
shall specify the identity of the vehicle or vehicle part removed.
(Ord. 119, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 92.06  VIOLATIONS.
   It shall hereafter be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
stand, park, or allow to stand any automobile, truck, or any other motor
vehicle or any trailer on any public street, alley or thoroughfare for a period
in excess of 48 hours, when the motor vehicle or trailer is without one or more
wheels or is inoperative for any reason.
(Ord. 119, passed 12-1-1988)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07  PUBLICATION.
   The Town Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to cause publication of
the descriptive caption and penalty clause hereof as an alternative method of
publication provided by law.
(Ord. 119, passed 12-1-1988)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who commits an offense under §
92.02 is, on conviction, subject to a fine not to exceed $200.  On conviction,
the court shall order removal and abatement of the nuisance.
(Ord. 119, passed 12-1-1988)
CHAPTER 93:  ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Permit required; fee; application; transferability; false statements
   
93.03   Proper alarm system operation and maintenance
   
93.04   Alarm activation, limitation, and reset requirement
   
93.05   Indirect alarm reporting
   
93.06   Direct alarm reporting; automatic alarm notification prohibited
   
93.07   Alarm system operating instructions
   
93.08   Service fee
   
93.09   Revocation of permit
   
93.10   Appeal from denial or revocation of permit
   
93.11   Violations
   
93.12   Exceptions
   
93.13   Implementation
   
93.14   Publication
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM NOTIFICATION.  A notification intended to summon the police or fire
services, which is designed either to be initiated purposely by a person or by
an alarm system that responds to a stimulus characteristic of unauthorized
intrusion or fire and/or smoke.
   ALARM SITE.  A single premises or location (one street address) served by an
alarm system or systems that are under the control of one owner.
   ALARM SYSTEM.  A device or system that emits, transmits, or relays a signal
intended to summon or that would reasonably be expected to summon police or
fire services of the town, including, but not limited to, a system that emits a
signal that is audible or visible from the exterior of a structure.  ALARM
SYSTEMS does not include:
      (1)   An alarm installed on a vehicle unless the vehicle is permanently
located at a site; or
      (2)   An alarm designed to alert only the inhabitants of a premises which
does not have a broadcast alarm.
   BROADCAST ALARM.  An alarm system that emits a signal at the alarm site that
is audible and/or visible from the exterior of a structure.
   FALSE ALARM NOTIFICATION.  An alarm notification to the Police or Fire
Department when the responding officer finds no evidence of unauthorized
intrusion, attempted unauthorized intrusion, robbery, attempted robbery, or an
attempt to take a person hostage, or an attempt or evidence of fire and/or
smoke.
   PERMIT HOLDER.  The natural person designated in the application as required
herein who is responsible for responding to alarms and giving access to the
site and who is also responsible for proper maintenance and operation of the
alarm system and payment of fees.
   PERSON.  An individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization,
or similar entity.
   TOWN OF LAKESIDE.  The Town of Lakeside’s designated representative.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.02  PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE; APPLICATION; TRANSFERABILITY; FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates or causes to be
operated an alarm system without an alarm permit issued by the Town of
Lakeside.  A separate permit is required for each alarm site.  A permit is
issued for one year and must be renewed every year upon submission of an
updated application.  It is the responsibility of the permit holder to renew
annually.  The Police Chief shall determine the first expiration date of a
permit.
   (B)   A fee shall be charged for the issuance of each permit for each alarm
system installed at an alarm site from and after the effective date of this
chapter and for each alarm system operable on the effective date hereof for
which a valid permit has not been issued by the effective date hereof.  An
initial fee of $15 shall be charged for the issuance of each permit for both
residential and commercial.  A renewal fee shall be $10 after their first
initial fee.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a completed application form and the required fee, the
Town of Lakeside shall issue an alarm permit to an applicant unless the
applicant has failed to pay a service fee assessed under this section or an
alarm permit for the same address has been revoked, and the violation causing
the revocation has not been corrected.
   (D)   Each permit application must contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the permit holder who will
be responsible for the proper maintenance and operation of the alarm system and
payment of fees assessed under this chapter;
      (2)   Address of the location of the alarm system; and
      (3)   A description by brand and general type of the alarm system stating
the particular type(s) of monitoring (e.g. entry, motion, glass, breakage,
fire, smoke, and the like), the manner in which the alarm will be given, and if
the alarm is to be transmitted to a central officer, the name of the operator
of the central office, address and telephone number.
   (E)   Additionally, the application shall include the following information
for individuals:
      (1)   The individual’s full name, date of birth, driver’s license number
and the state of the license, business address and residence address; and
      (2)   The individual’s residence and business telephone number.
   (F)   Any false statement of a material matter made by an applicant for the
purpose of obtaining an alarm permit shall be sufficient cause for refusal to
issue a permit.
   (G)   An alarm permit cannot be transferred to another alarm system or to
another permit holder except by authorization of the Town of Lakeside.  A
permit holder shall inform the Town of Lakeside of any change that alters any
information listed on the permit application within two business days.  No fee
will be assessed for the changes.
   (H)   A permit holder shall cancel a permit for any alarm system which is
removed from an alarm site or which otherwise ceases to come under the permit
requirements of this chapter.  Cancellation may be accomplished by returning
the permit to the Town of Lakeside.
   (I)   All fees owed by an applicant under this chapter must be paid before a
permit may be issued or renewed.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989; Ord. 172, passed 11-10-1994; Ord. 355, passed 9-12-
2013)
§ 93.03  PROPER ALARM SYSTEM OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   A permit holder shall:
   (A)   Maintain the premises containing an alarm system in a manner that
assures proper operation of the alarm system;
   (B)   Maintain the alarm system in a manner that will minimize false alarm
notification;
   (C)   Respond to or cause a representative to respond within a reasonable
period of time when requested by the town to repair or inactivate a
malfunctioning alarm system, to provide access to the premises or to provide
security for the premises;
   (D)   Refrain from manually activating an alarm for any reason other than
the occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report; and
   (E)   Notify the Police Department prior to activating an alarm for
maintenance purposes.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.04  ALARM ACTIVATION, LIMITATION, AND RESET REQUIREMENT.
   A permit holder shall not utilize any alarm system which causes an audible
signal to be emitted for more than 30 minutes after being activated or which
emits a subsequent alarm without being reset, excluding health, panic, and/or
fire alarms which need not have reset capability.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.05  INDIRECT ALARM REPORTING.
   A person who is engaged in the business of relaying alarm notification to
the town shall:
   (A)   Communicate alarm notification to the town in a manner and form
determined by the Town of Lakeside; and
   (B)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter and any rules and
regulations promulgated by the Town of Lakeside.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.06  DIRECT ALARM REPORTING; AUTOMATIC ALARM NOTIFICATION PROHIBITED.
   An alarm system which transmits automatic alarm notification directly to the
communication center of the Police Department is prohibited.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07  ALARM SYSTEM OPERATING INSTRUCTIONS.
   A permit holder or person in control of an alarm system shall maintain a
complete set of written operating instructions for each alarm system at each
alarm site.  Special codes, combinations, or passwords need not be included in
these instructions.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.08  SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (B) and (C) below, the
holder of an alarm permit shall pay a service fee for each false alarm
notification emitted for any alarm system that is in excess of five false
alarms within any 12-month period.  The fee shall be established by a majority
vote of the City Council and shall be in effect until changed, from time to
time, by a majority vote of the City Council.
   (B)   If the person notifies the Town of Lakeside and applies for an alarm
permit before a new alarm system is put into service, no service fee will be
assessed during the first 30 days after the system is put into service, and
alarm notification during that period will not be counted in determining when a
service fee will be assessed.
   (C)   If the respondent police officer determines that an alarm notification
was caused by unauthorized intrusion, attempted unauthorized intrusion,
robbery, attempted robbery, or an attempt to take a person hostage, or fire
and/or smoke, the notification will not be counted in determining when a fee
will be set.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989; Ord. 172, passed 11-10-1994; Ord. 182, passed 10-
10-1996)
§ 93.09  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The Town of Lakeside shall revoke an alarm permit if it determines
that:
      (1)   There is a false statement of a material matter in the application
for permit;
      (2)   The permit holder has violated any provision of this chapter; and/
or
      (3)   The permit holder has failed to make payment of a service fee
assessed under §
93.08 within 30 days of receiving notice to do so.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates an alarm system
during the period in which his or her alarm permit is revoked.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.10  APPEAL FROM DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   If the Town of Lakeside refuses to issue or renew a permit, or revokes
a permit, it shall send to the applicant or permit holder by certified mail,
return receipt requested, written notice of his or her action and a statement
of the right to an appeal.  The applicant or permit holder may appeal the
decision of the Town of Lakeside by filing with the Town Secretary a written
request for a hearing, setting forth the reasons for the appeal, within 15 days
after receipt of the notice from the town.  The filing of a request for an
appeal hearing with the Town Secretary stays an action of the town in revoking
a permit until the Town Secretary or her designated representative makes a
final decision.  If a request for an appeal hearing is not made within the 15-
day period, the action of the town is final.
   (B)   The Town Secretary shall set a time and place for the hearing within
30 days after receipt of the written request, which shall be served upon the
applicant or permit holder by certified mail, return receipt requested.  The
time for hearing an appeal may be extended by agreement of the parties.  The
Town Secretary or her designated representative shall serve as hearing officer
at an appeal and consider evidence by any interested person.  The formal rules
of evidence do not apply to an appeal hearing.  All parties to the hearing
shall have the right to present evidence and shall have the right to cross-
examination.  The hearing officer may recess and/or continue the hearing to
receive additional evidence at the request of either party or the hearing
officer.  The hearing officer shall make his or her decision on the basis of a
preponderance of the evidence.  The hearing officer shall affirm, reverse, or
modify the action of the town.  The decision of the hearing officer is final as
to administrative remedies with the town.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.11  VIOLATIONS.
   A person commits an offense if he or she violates by commission or omission
any provision of this chapter that imposes upon him or her a duty of
responsibility.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.12  EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to alarm systems operated by local, state, or
federal government entities.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.13  IMPLEMENTATION.
   Beginning 4-1-1989, this chapter shall apply to all alarm systems in the
town.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.14  PUBLICATION.
   The Town Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to cause publication of
the caption and penalty clauses of this chapter as an alternative method of
publication provided by law.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a separate
offense for each day or portion of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued, or permitted, and each violation is punishable by a fine
of not less than $50 or more than $200 upon first conviction and not less than
$75 nor more than $200 upon second and subsequent convictions.
(Ord. 120, passed 1-5-1989)
CHAPTER 94:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
   
94.01   Fire Code adopted
 
   
94.98   Enforcement
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adopted. The 2012 International Fire Code and all 2012 International
Fire Code appendices published by the International Code Council, Inc., are
hereby adopted as the official fire code of the Town of Lakeside. This code is
fully incorporated by reference as though copied herein in its entirety.
   (B)   Amended. The International Fire Code, 2012 Edition, is hereby amended
to meet the unique fire safety needs of the Town of Lakeside, as shown on
Exhibit “A” of Ordinance 369, on file in the office of the City Secretary.
   (C)   Not codified. The material contained in the 2012 International Fire
Code, although fully adopted and incorporated by reference in this section,
shall not be included in the formal municipal codification of ordinances. The
material contained in the 2012 International Fire Code shall be maintained as a
public record in the office of the Fire Chief of the City of Lake Worth. The
2012 International Fire Code will be available for public inspection and
copying during regular business hours.
(Ord. 337, passed 7-12-2012; Ord. 369, passed 3-13-2014)
§ 94.98  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Pursuant to the terms of an Agreement for the Provision of Fire Safety
Inspections, Plan Review for Fire Code Compliance, Fire Code Enforcement and
Fire Investigation Services, an inter-local agreement between the Town of
Lakeside and the City of Lake Worth, entered into prior to or concurrently with
the adoption of this chapter, and any subsequent extensions, amendments, and
modifications thereto, the Lake Worth Fire Department is appointed to be the
primary agency responsible for providing fire safety inspections, plan review
for fire code compliance, fire code enforcement, and fire investigation
services within the town.
   (B)   All commercial buildings within the town shall be required to submit
to annual fire safety inspections to ensure compliance with all applicable fire
code provisions.
   (C)   Notwithstanding anything in this code to the contrary, prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the town shall inspect the subject
property to ensure compliance with all applicable fire code provisions.
(Ord. 337, passed 7-12-2012)
Cross-reference:
   Building permits and certificates of occupancy, see §
151.009
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter or of the 2012 International Fire Code, as adopted and amended
herein, shall be fined not more than $2,000. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 337, passed 7-12-2012; Ord. 369, passed 3-13-2014)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
114.   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
115.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
   
110.01   Garage sales
   
110.02   Operation of recreational facilities
   
110.03   License standards for those who perform electrical work
   
110.04   Sale of goods out of doors and in residential zones
   
110.05   Drive-in restaurants
   
110.06   Motor vehicle junk yards
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01  GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GARAGE SALE.  An offering of used goods and merchandise for sale,
exchange, or barter to the public that is set out or displayed in or on a
garage, patio, yard, or driveway located in an area zoned for residential
purpose and use.
      GROUP GARAGE SALE.  A garage sale whereby property owned by persons other
than the owners or occupants of the property where the garage sale is being
held is also offered for sale, exchange, or barter.
      WEEKEND.  The period of time running from 8:00 a.m. on a Friday through
6:00 p.m. on the following Sunday.  The time may not be cumulated.  The holding
of a garage sale during any portion of a weekend shall be considered as holding
a garage sale during the entire weekend.
   (B)   No person or group of persons in the Town of Lakeside, Texas, shall
hold a garage sale, except under the following conditions.
      (1)   All the used personal property shall be displayed to possible
purchasers only on premises belonging to, or occupied by, the person offering
the personal property for sale.  No merchandise or property may be set out or
displayed sooner than 12 hours before the weekend during which the garage sale
is held.
      (2)   No new personal property may be displayed, offered for sale, sold,
bartered, or exchanged.
      (3)   No garage sale may be held until the person who owns or occupies
the premises where the sale is to be held obtains a permit from the Town of
Lakeside.  The permit shall be obtained at least 24 hours before the garage
sale is to be held.  The form and content of an application for a permit shall
be established by the town.
      (4)   A fee of $10 shall be charged for the issuance of a permit.
      (5)   The permit must be prominently displayed at the location of the
garage sale so that it may be easily and clearly seen from the street fronting
the premises where the garage sale is being held.
      (6)   No more than three signs advertising or announcing the garage sale
may be posted or displayed off the premises; and no sign may be placed or
posted more than 12 hours before the sale begins.  No sign may exceed two
square feet in size.  No sign may be posted or placed on town property or
right-of-way or on utility poles.  All signs shall be removed within four hours
from the time the garage sale ends.
      (7)   No garage sale shall be held for any continuous period longer than
one weekend.
      (8)   No garage sale may be held at any one location more than two
weekends in one calendar year.
      (9)   The holding of a group garage sale shall be deemed, and considered
to be the holding of a garage sale by each participating owner of personal
property offered at the garage sale, and thus shall be counted as a garage sale
for determining the number of sales held during a calendar year at each
persons’ premises.
   (C)   The Town Secretary is directed and authorized to cause publication of
this section as allowed by law.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law, and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 260, passed 1-8-2004)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  OPERATION OF RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OPERATOR.  A person, firm, company, partnership, or association who
exhibits or displays a mechanical, video, or electronic game or pool table
within the town who does not own the games or pool tables.
      OWNER.  Any person, firm, company, partnership, or association that owns
a mechanical, video, or electronic game or pool table located within the
licensed premises.
      PLACE OF RECREATION.  Any business establishment open to the public,
whether serving food or beverages or not, that provides more than an aggregate
total of three mechanical (including shuffle board, pinball, table type 9 and
10 pin alley, and marble machines), video or electronic games of skill, chance
or pleasure, whether coin-operated or not, and/or pool tables.
      POOL TABLE.  Any table surrounded by a ledge or cushion, with or without
pockets, upon which balls are propelled by a stick or cue, and shall include
billiard tables, pool tables, and bumper pool tables whether coin-operated or
not.
   (B)   Occupation tax.
      (1)   An occupation tax is imposed on each mechanical, video, or
electronic game or pool table that is displayed, exhibited, and used within the
town limits of the Town of Lakeside on January 1 of each year, except for the
year 2002 and the tax is imposed as of the effective date of this section.
      (2)   The tax rate is one-fourth of the occupation tax imposed by the
State of Texas and is due on January 15 of each year, except for the year 2002
and the tax is due upon the effective date of this section.
      (3)   The tax is due and payable by the owner of each game or pool table.
      (4)   The tax shall be collected by the Town Administrator.
      (5)   The tax on a mechanical, video, or electronic game or pool table
that is first displayed, exhibited, or used in the Town of Lakeside after March
31 of each year is one-fourth of the tax imposed by this section for each
quarter or partial quarter of the calendar year remaining after the date the
game or pool table is first exhibited.  The tax is payable within 15 days after
the game or pool table is first exhibited in the Town of Lakeside.
      (6)   A tax permit shall be issued by the Town Administrator upon receipt
of payment and it shall be securely affixed to each game or pool table.
      (7)   The Town Administrator may not refund or assign credit for the tax
imposed under this section to an owner who ceases to exhibit or display a coin-
operated machine before the end of the calendar year for which the tax is
imposed.
      (8)   A person may not attach a tax permit to a coin-operated machine
that is exhibited or displayed if the machine is not registered with the Town
Administrator under this section.
   (C)   License required.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, association of persons,
corporation, or any other type of organization to own, operate, or maintain any
place of recreation within the Town of Lakeside, Texas, without having first
obtained an appropriate license from the Town Secretary, as hereinafter
provided, which license shall at all times be displayed in a conspicuous place
within the licensed place of business.
      (2)   There is excepted from the requirement that a license be obtained
any religious, educational, charitable, benevolent, or nonprofit association or
corporation, or any governmental entity.  It is provided, however, that any
such association or entity shall, upon request by the Town Administrator or the
Administrator’s representative, furnish proof at any time of its religious,
educational, charitable, benevolent, nonprofit, or governmental status.  Any
failure to respond to the request within ten days shall constitute a violation
of this section and subject the organization to the penalties set out in this
section.
      (3)   There is excepted from the requirement that a license be obtained
an individual who owns mechanic, video, or electronic games and/or pool tables
for personal use and amusement only that are located in the individual’s
residence.
   (D)   Compliance with other laws required.  No license shall be granted
pursuant to this section unless it shall appear, upon investigation by the Town
Administrator or the Administrator’s representative, that the premises to be
used for the purpose of operating a place of recreation comply with the laws of
the state and all ordinances of the town regulating health and sanitation, fire
regulations, zoning regulations, and all requirements of the building codes of
the town.
   (E)   Application for license.
      (1)   Any person or other entity desiring a license to operate a place of
recreation shall file with the Town Administrator a written, sworn application
for the license, and the application shall state:
         (a)   The location, by street and number, of the premise which is
proposed to be used for the purpose and the size of the space to be used;
         (b)   If not the owner of the premise, the name and address of the
owner;
         (c)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, business and
residence address of the applicant, the applicant’s social security number, and
driver’s license number and state of issuance;
         (d)   If the applicant is an association or partnership, all of the
information described in division (E)(1)(b) above, as to each individual
composing the association or partnership;
         (e)   If the applicant is a corporation, the date and state of
incorporation and, if it is a foreign corporation, then the date that it
obtained a license to do business in the State of Texas, the name of the
registered agent of the corporation, the principal and registered address and
the name of its chief executive officer;
         (f)   If the applicant for the license will not or does not own all of
the game machines or pool tables, then the name and address of the person or
entity owning and furnishing the games and pool tables; and
         (g)   The number and type of games or pool tables anticipated to be on
the premises during the term of the license or, if the application is for a
renewal of the license, the number and types of games and pool tables presently
at the premises.
      (2)   Each individual named in the application shall verify that he or
she has never been convicted of any crime involving injury to or abuse or
molestation of a child.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to misrepresent any information, fact, or
statement made in the application.  Any misrepresentation shall, in addition to
the other penalties prescribed by law, be cause for revocation of a license or
cause for denial of a license.
      (4)   The Town of Lakeside shall issue or deny a license within 30
working days from the date the application for same is filed with the Town
Secretary.
   (F)   License fees.
      (1)   In addition to all other fees or taxes levied or charged by the
Town of Lakeside, the State of Texas or other jurisdictions, there shall be
levied and paid at the time the Application for license is filed with the Town
Administrator an annual license fee in an amount set by the City Council from
time to time.
      (2)   The license fee shall be paid at the time the application is filed.
      (3)   The license fees specified above shall be pro-rated on a calendar
year basis in the year it is first issued.
   (G)   Term of license.  The term of each license issued to a place of
recreation shall be for the period of January 1 through December 31 of the year
the license is issued.  Once issued, a license must be renewed and re-issued no
later than January 15 of the following year.  No license issued under the terms
of this section shall be transferable.
   (H)   Appeals.  In the event the issuance of a license is denied, the action
shall be final, unless the applicant for the license shall, within ten days
after the date of denial, file a written appeal with the Town Administrator
addressed to the City Council requesting a hearing by, the Council upon the
question as to whether or not the application should be granted.  The Council
shall, within 30 days, grant a hearing thereon to determine whether the
decision to deny the application was correct.  The Council may make the
investigation and receive information from the Town Administrator, the Chief of
Police and any other person in making its determination.  The Council may
affirm the denial of the license or may grant the application for a license. 
In any event, the action taken by the Council shall be final.  Any applicant
aggrieved by the action of the City Council shall have the right to appeal to
the District Courts of Tarrant County, Texas, on the grounds that the City
Council has acted arbitrarily or capriciously with regard to the proposed
application.  Any action must be filed in the District Courts within 30 days
after the date City Council has taken action or the action of the City Council
shall be conclusive.
   (I)   License not a vested right.  The granting of any license under the
terms of this section shall in no event be construed as the granting or
conferring of any vested right to the licensee or operator, but shall be
subject to revocation, cancellation, or suspension as provided herein.
   (J)   Renewal of license.  Before a place of recreation license shall be
renewed, the person or entity requesting the renewal shall make application for
renewal.  The application shall contain all of the facts, information, and
statements as are required for an original application for a license.  At the
time of the making of the application for renewal, the applicant shall also pay
the license fees and occupation tax as set out herein.
   (K)   Revocation of license.  If a place of recreation licensed under the
provisions of this section is not being conducted in accordance with the laws
of this state or of this section, the Chief of Police or Town Administrator
shall give notice in writing to the operator, licensee, Administrator, or other
person in control of the premises that the license issued for the operation and
maintenance of the place of recreation will be revoked, cancelled, or
suspended.  The notice of revocation, cancellation, or suspension shall become
final after the expiration of ten days from the date of the service of same
upon the operator, licensee, Administrator, or other person in charge, unless,
within the time, the licensee, operator, or Administrator shall file with the
Town Secretary a written appeal addressed to the City Council.  The appeal
shall operate as a stay or postponement of the revocation, cancellation, or
suspension of the license issued until the time as the Council shall grant a
hearing and make a final decision.  The hearing shall be held within 30 days
after the date of filing of the appeal.  The Council shall make the
investigation and receive information from the sources as it may deem fit.  The
action and judgment of the Council after the hearing shall be final and
conclusive as to all parties.  Any applicant aggrieved by the action of the
City Council shall have the right to appeal to the District Courts of Tarrant
County, Texas, on the grounds that the City Council has acted arbitrarily or
capriciously with regard to the revocation, cancellation, or suspension of the
license.  The appeal to the District Courts must be filed within 30 days after
City Council has acted or the action of the City Council shall become final and
conclusive.
   (L)   Location of recreational facility.  No recreational facility shall be
located within 300 feet in a direct line from any of its public entrances of
the property line of a church, hospital, or public or private school.
   (M)   Hours of operation.  No place of recreation shall be operated between
the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any day; provided, however, that no
place of recreation may be operated on Sundays, except during the hours of 10:
00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m.
   (N)   Limitation on service of alcohol.
      (1)   No licensee shall knowingly permit the use, consumption, or
possession of any kind of alcoholic beverage in or upon the premises for which
a license has been issued if minors are permitted on the premises.
      (2)   There is excepted from the above restriction concerning the sale,
use, consumption, and possession of alcoholic beverages the following:
         (a)   A licensee may serve alcoholic beverages if the minors permitted
on the premise are employees of the licensee; and
         (b)   A licensee may serve alcoholic beverages on the premise where
minors are permitted if 60% or more of licensee’s gross revenues are from the
sale of other products and goods and/or services that form a primary part of
its business and advertising.
      (3)   If alcoholic beverages are sold in a recreational facility, the
place where alcohol is served shall be physically separated from the space
where games and pool tables are located by walls or partitions that are at
least four feet tall.
   (O)   Rules of operation.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a license to knowingly
permit or allow any person reasonably suspected of being under the influence of
alcohol or drugs from entering on or remaining at the premises.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a license to knowingly
permit or allow on the premises any person who has been convicted of a felony
or who has been convicted of any crime involving injury to or molestation or
abuse of a child.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a license to knowingly
employ any person on the premises who has been convicted of a felony or who has
been convicted of any crime involving injury to or molestation or abuse of a
child.
      (4)   The holder of a license and person in charge of any place of
recreation shall not allow profane, loud, or abusive language on the premises,
nor shall gambling be permitted except as may be specifically allowed by state
law.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a license to allow a minor
to enter the licensed premise during regular school hours of the public
schools.
      (6)   It shall be unlawful to screen any game or pool table so same is
not clearly and plainly visible from the front door area of the premise, or if
another primary business activity takes place where the majority of the public
is engaged in an activity other than the playing of games or pool, then the
game or pool table shall be clearly and plainly visible from the area of the
premise where the other activity is taking place.
   (P)   Duty of licensee.  It shall be the duty of each licensee, and its
mangers and operators, to prevent violations of the terms of this section.  A
failure to do so shall constitute sufficient cause for revocation of any
license granted hereunder.
   (Q)   Inspections.  The Town Administrator, Chief of Police, or building
inspection official may enter on the premises to make periodic inspections for
the purpose of determining whether the premises and the operations conducted
are in compliance with this section and all other ordinances pertaining to
health and building conditions with which the licensee must comply.
   (R)   Effective date.  This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after is passage and publication as required by law, and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 241, passed 2-14-2002)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  LICENSE STANDARDS FOR THOSE WHO PERFORM ELECTRICAL WORK.
   (A)   All electrical work of any kind or nature performed by any electrical
contractor operating within the town limits of the Town of Lakeside, Texas,
shall be performed by a licensed electrician.  The electrical contractor
supervising any such work shall have and hold a current master’s electrician
license and is required to verify that all electrical work done under his or
her or its supervision shall be performed by a licensed electrician.  There
shall be on the site where electrical work is being performed at all times a
person who has at least a journeyman’s electrical license.  No electrician
shall be deemed licensed by the Town of Lakeside, Texas, until the Building
Official receives a letter of reciprocity from an incorporated town within the
State of Texas that the electrician has taken and passed an approved
examination entitling the electrician to a license in the other incorporated
town and stating the type or degree of license issued.
   (B)   The Building Official of the Town of Lakeside may issue a stop work
order and prohibit any further work or activity on a job site if the official
finds that electrical work is being performed by an unlicensed person or that
no person having at least a journeyman’s license is present at a job site when
electrical work is being performed.  In such event, the Building Official may
ban the electrical contractor and all employees or agents of the contractor
from performing any work in the Town of Lakeside for up to one year and may
impose any other penalties as may be allowed by ordinance or codes adopted by
the Town of Lakeside.
   (C)   The Town Secretary is instructed to publish this section as provided
by law.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 215, passed 1-13-2000)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04  SALE OF GOODS OUT OF DOORS AND IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   In connection with residential occupancy of a dwelling in a
residentially zoned area, the tenants or occupants thereof may offer their
personal belongings and household effects for sale to the general public in and
upon a paved drive, garage, or other accessory building; provided, however,
that the interval of the sales shall be at least six months and no sale shall
extend for more than three consecutive calendar days.
   (B)   In connection with commercial buildings or buildings located in
commercial zones, the tenants or occupants thereof may offer for sale personal
goods to the general public outside the confines of the building upon the
sidewalk or paved drive, however the interval between the sales shall be at
least six months, and no sale period shall extend for more than 14 consecutive
calendar days.
   (C)   Division (B) above shall not apply to any commercial business properly
zoned in which the goods to be sold are by their size or by their descriptive
item to be sold outside the confines of a building, the items shall include,
but may not be limited to, automobile sales lots, both new and used, with no
other associated purpose or function, new or used boat sales, new or used
mobile home sales.
   (D)   The Town Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to cause
publication of the descriptive caption and penalty clause hereof as an
alternative method of publication provided by law.
(Ord. 116, passed 4-14-1988)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05  DRIVE-IN RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANTS.  Any restaurant where meals, sandwiches, cold
drinks, beverages, or other food is served directly or permitted to be consumed
by patrons in motor vehicles parked on the premises.
      MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any self-propelled vehicle of two or more wheels,
including, but not limited to, automobiles, trucks, and motorcycles.
      PUBLIC PLACE.  For the purpose of preserving public peace, health, and
safety, the entire premises occupied by a drive-in restaurant, together with
the means of ingress thereto and egress therefrom, are hereby declared to be a
public place.
   (B)   Duties of owner, lessee, or operator.  It is the duty of the owner or
operator of any drive-in restaurant to maintain good order upon premises, and
shall not permit disorderly or immoral conduct or loitering thereon, nor shall
he or she cause or permit any noise or nuisance on the parking area of the
drive-in restaurant.  It is the duty of the owner or operator to provide not
less than two receptacles for the receipt of trash, litter, paper, napkins,
cups, and remnants of food at each exit, available to the patrons as they leave
the premises (parking lot exits).  Failure to provide the receptacles shall
constitute a misdemeanor, and any person convicted shall be fined as provided
in this section.  It shall be the duty of the restaurant owner to post on the
premises in a conspicuous location one or more signs bearing the following
legend:  “Cruising in or congregating and loitering outside of a motor vehicle
is unlawful.  No unoccupied vehicle may be left on these premises without the
consent of the restaurant owner.”
   (C)   Alcoholic beverages.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to possess
any alcoholic beverages in any drive-in restaurant where the alcoholic beverage
is consumed, with the exception that the person in possession of alcoholic
beverages is accompanied by parent or guardian, adult wife or husband, or other
adult person into whose custody he or she has been committed for the time by
some court.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to
bring on the premises of any drive-in restaurant any alcoholic beverages and
attempt to consume or consume same on the premises of the drive-in restaurant.
   (D)   Prohibited acts.  The following acts or conduct of any person or
persons entering any drive-in restaurant premises are hereby declared to be
unlawful, and any person found guilty of any such act shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined as provided by this section:
      (1)   To enter the premises of any drive-in restaurant in a motor vehicle
of any description and park the vehicle and leave the premises without getting
the consent of the owner or operator of the restaurant in which case the
vehicle may be impounded subject to the usual impounding charges;
      (2)   To enter the premises in a motor vehicle of any kind and using the
premises for cruising, racing, as a shortcut to another street, or to annoy or
endanger any person or persons or other vehicle or vehicles lawfully upon the
premises;
      (3)   No person on the premises of a drive-in restaurant shall
needlessly: race the motor of any motor vehicle, bring to a sudden start or
stop any motor vehicle, blow any horn of any motor vehicle, or cause to be made
any other loud or unseemly noise, nuisance or disturbance, whereby the quiet
and good order of the premises or the neighborhood are disturbed; and
      (4)   For three or more persons to congregate on the premises and to
linger or loiter at any location on the premises of a drive-in restaurant other
than in the restaurant building or in a legally parked motor vehicle.  It shall
be unlawful for any patron of a drive-in restaurant to throw or deposit any
litter anywhere on the grounds or on the streets of the town save and except in
the receptacles provided therefor.  Any person violating this provision of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
as provided for in this section.
(Ord. 72, passed 2-10-1975)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06  MOTOR VEHICLE JUNK YARDS.
   No motor vehicle junk yard or business shall be established, operated, or
maintained, in the Town of Lakeside, Texas.
(Ord. 33, passed 2-27-1968)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions of §
110.01, irrespective of whether or not the verbiage of §
110.01 contains the specific language that the violation or failure to comply
is unlawful and is an offense.  Any person who shall violate any of the
provisions of §
110.01 or any of the provisions of a permit issued pursuant thereto, or who
shall fail to comply with the terms thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in the sum not to exceed $200 and
the violation of each separate provision thereof shall be considered a separate
offense.  Each day’s failure to comply therewith shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense for each of the days.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions of §
110.02, regardless of whether or not the verbiage of each section hereof
contains the specific language that the violation or failure to comply is
unlawful and is an offense.  Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of §
110.02 or any of the provisions of a license issued pursuant hereto, or who
shall fail to comply with the terms thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in the sum not to exceed $500 and
the violation of each separate provision thereof shall be considered a separate
offense.  Each day’s continuance of a failure to comply herewith shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense for each of the days.
   (C)   In addition to and not in lieu of the penalties imposed by the
Building Official, it shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to
violate or fail to comply with any provisions of §
110.03, irrespective of whether or not the verbiage of that section contains
the specific language that the violation or failure to comply is unlawful and
is an offense.  Any person, corporation, or other entity who shall violate any
of the provisions of §
110.03 or who shall fail to comply with the terms thereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in the sum not to exceed
$500 and the violation of each separate provision hereof shall be considered a
separate offense.  Each day’s continuance of a failure to comply therewith
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense for each of the days.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
110.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon final conviction therefor,
shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $1,000.  Each and every day the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder.
   (E)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §
110.05 shall be fined a sum not to exceed $200, provided, however, that if any
section or division of §
110.05 provides for a specific penalty for a particular violation, the penalty
shall apply to the particular violation.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years to purchase
any alcoholic beverages on the premises of any drive-in restaurant, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined the sum of not less than $10 or more than
$100.
      (3)   (a)   Any person while on the premises of any drive-in restaurant
who shall in the presence or hearing of another curse or abuse the person or
use any violently abusive language to the person concerning him or her or any
of his or her relatives under circumstances reasonable calculated to provoke a
breach of the peace shall be fined not more than $100.
         (b)   Any person who while on the premises of any drive-in restaurant
shall use loud, vociferous or obscene, vulgar, or indecent language, or swear
or curse or yell or shriek in a manner calculated to disturb the person or
persons present at such a place shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $200.
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate or cause or permit
anyone to violate, any of the provisions of §
110.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction therefor, shall be
fined not to exceed the sum of $200.  Each violation thereof shall be and is
hereby declared to be a distinct and separate offense and punishable as such.
(Ord. 33, passed 2-27-1968; Ord. 72, passed 2-10-1975; Ord. 116, passed 4-14-
1988; Ord. 215, passed 1-13-2000; Ord. 241, passed 2-14-2002; Ord. 260, passed
1-8-2004)
CHAPTER 111:  FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Adoption of Texas food establishment rules
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Permits and exemptions
   
111.04   Application for permit and fees
   
111.05   Review of plans
   
111.06   Inspections
   
111.07   Food manager/food handler education
   
111.08   Suspension of permit
   
111.09   Revocation of permit
   
111.10   Administrative process
   
111.11   Effective date
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  ADOPTION OF TEXAS FOOD ESTABLISHMENT RULES.
   The Town of Lakeside adopts by reference the provisions of the current rules
or rules as amended by the Executive Commissioner of the Health and Human
Services Commission found in Tex. Administrative Code, Title 25, Chapter 229,
§§ 161 through 171 and 173 through 175 regarding the regulation of food
establishments in this jurisdiction.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT OR EMPLOYEE.  The employees of the regulatory authority.
   CITY or MUNICIPALITY.  The Town of Lakeside.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT.  A food service establishment, a retail food store, a
temporary food establishment, a mobile food unit, and/or a roadside food
vendor.
   REGULATORY AUTHORITY.  The Tarrant County Public Health Department.
   STATE RULES.  The state rules found at Tex. Administrative Code, Title 25,
Chapter 229, §§ 161 through 171 and §§ 173 through 175. These rules are also
known as the Texas Food Establishment Rules.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 111.03  PERMITS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   A person may not operate a food establishment without a permit issued by the
regulatory authority. Permits are not transferrable from one person or entity
to another or from one location to another location, except as otherwise
permitted by this chapter. A valid permit must be visibly posted in or on every
food establishment regulated by this chapter.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.04  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND FEES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a food establishment must make a
written application for a permit on forms provided by the regulatory authority.
The application must contain the name and address of each applicant, the
location and type of the proposed food establishment and the applicable fee. An
incomplete application will not be accepted. Failure to provide all required
information, or falsifying information required may result in denial or
revocation of the permit. Renewals of permits are required on an annual basis
and the same information is required for a renewal permit as for an initial
permit.
   (B)   Prior to the approval of an initial permit or the renewal of an
existing permit, the regulatory authority shall inspect the proposed food
establishment to determine compliance with state laws and rules. A food
establishment that does not comply with state laws and rules will be denied a
permit or the renewal of a permit.
   (C)   Fees for permits issued under this chapter shall be as listed in the
fee schedule attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05  REVIEW OF PLANS.
   (A)   Whenever a food establishment is constructed or extensively remodeled
and whenever an existing structure is converted to use as a food establishment,
properly prepared plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling or
conversion shall be submitted to the regulatory authority for review before
work is begun. Extensive remodeling means that 20% or greater of the area of
the food establishment is to be remodeled or when equipment required by the
rules is to be relocated or removed. The plans and specifications shall
indicate the proposed layout, equipment arrangement, mechanical plans and
construction of materials of work areas, and the type and model of proposed
fixed equipment and facilities. The plans and specifications will be approved
by the regulatory authority if they meet the requirements of the rules adopted
by this chapter. The approved plans and specifications must be followed in
construction, remodeling or conversion.
   (B)   Failure to follow the approved plans and specifications will result in
a permit denial, suspension, or revocation.
   (C)    Fees for the review of plans shall be as listed in the fee schedule
attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 111.06  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Before a permit is issued, the city or its authorized representative
shall inspect and approve the food establishment. An inspection of a food
establishment shall be performed at least once annually and shall be
prioritized based upon assessment of a food establishment’s compliance and
potential of causing foodborne illness according to Tex. Administrative Code,
Title 25, Chapter 229, § 171(h).
   (B)   The regulatory authority shall classify food establishments as special
priority, high priority, medium priority or low priority, according to the type
of operations; particular foods that are prepared; number of people served;
susceptibility of the population served; history of violations and any other
risk factor deemed relevant to the operation.
   (C)   Refusal of an owner, manager or employee to allow the authorized
representative of the regulatory authority, upon presentation of credentials,
to inspect any permitted business or operation therein during normal business
hours will result in an immediate suspension of the permit, requiring all
permitted activities to abate until after such time as a hearing may be held
per §
111.08.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 111.07  FOOD MANAGER/FOOD HANDLER EDUCATION.
   (A)   Requirement.
      (1)   Each food service establishment shall have at least one person
employed in a managerial capacity possessing a current food manager certificate
approved by the regulatory authority.
      (2)   Each food service establishment with six or more employees that is
required to have certified food managers must have at least one certified
manager on site during all operations.
      (3)   Every employee of a food service establishment other than a
certified food manager must maintain a valid food handler certification
registered with the regulatory authority.
      (4)   Food handler certification shall be valid for a period of up to
three years as determined by the regulatory authority.
      (5)   Food manager and food handler certification documentation must be
maintained in the food service establishment and presented upon request by the
regulatory authority.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08  SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The regulatory authority may, without warning, notice, or hearing
suspend any permit to operate a food establishment if the operation of the food
establishment constitutes an imminent hazard to public health. Suspension is
effective upon service of the notice required by division (B) of this section.
When a permit is suspended, food operations shall immediately cease. Whenever a
permit is suspended, the holder of the permit shall be afforded an opportunity
for a hearing within ten days of receipt of a request for a hearing.
   (B)   Whenever a permit is suspended, the holder of the permit or the person
in charge shall be notified in writing that the permit is, upon service of the
notice, immediately suspended and that an opportunity for a hearing will be
provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the regulatory
authority by the holder of the permit within ten days. If no written request
for hearing is filed within ten days, the suspension is sustained. The
regulatory authority may end the suspension at any time if reasons for
suspension no longer exist.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 111.09  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The regulatory authority may, after providing opportunity for a
hearing, revoke a permit for serious or repeated violations of any of the
requirements of these rules or for interference with the regulatory authority
in the performance of its duties. Prior to revocation, the regulatory authority
shall notify the holder of the permit or the person in charge, in writing, of
the reason for which the permit is subject to revocation and that the permit
shall be revoked at the end of the ten days following service of such notice
unless a written request for a hearing is filed with the regulatory authority
by the holder of the permit within such ten day period.
   (B)   If no request for hearing is filed within the ten day period, the
revocation of the permit becomes final.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 111.10  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS.
   (A)   A notice as required in these rules is properly served when it is
delivered to the holder of the permit or the person in charge, or when it is
sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the holder of the permit as shown on their permit application.
A copy of the notice shall be filed in the records of the regulatory authority.
   (B)   The hearings provided for in these rules shall be conducted by the
regulatory authority at a time and place designated by it. Based upon the
recorded evidence of such hearing, the regulatory authority shall make final
findings, and shall sustain, modify or rescind any notice or order considered
in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished to
the holder of the permit by the regulatory authority.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 111.11  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter be in full force and effect from and after
its passage, and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates a provision of these rules and any person who
is the permit holder of or otherwise operates a food service establishment that
does not comply with the requirements of these rules and any responsible
officer of that permit holder or those persons shall be fined not more than
$2,000 dollars.
   (B)   The regulatory authority may seek to enjoin violations of these rules.
(Ord. 327, passed 8-11-2011)
CHAPTER 112:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Business to be conducted within locations that comply with zoning
regulations
   
112.02   Application and license requirements
   
112.03   License and license fee
   
112.04   Allowable locations for sales
   
112.05   Prohibited place of business
   
112.06   Definitions and construction
   
112.07   Publication
   
112.08   Effective date
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01  BUSINESS TO BE CONDUCTED WITHIN LOCATIONS THAT COMPLY WITH ZONING
REGULATIONS.
   No person shall engage in the business of selling any alcoholic beverage in
the town unless the place of business of the person is located in the use
district of the town, as established by present and future zoning regulations
of the town, in which the sale of the beverage is permitted.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-12-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.02  APPLICATION AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person applying for a license or permit for the sale of alcoholic
beverages, issued by authority of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code, or to
change the location of the place of business designated in such a license or
permit shall deliver to the Town Administrator for filing one copy of the
appropriate forms filed by the applicant with the Texas Alcoholic Beverage
Commission for the issuance of a license or permit, and upon receipt shall
deliver a copy of the license or permit issued by the Commission to the Town
Administrator.
   (B)   An application for a town license or permit, or for a change of
location for an existing license or permit, shall be filed with the Town
Administrator and must be accompanied by the documents described above and with
a scale drawing showing the proposed or actual location of the applicant’s
business in relation to street, property lines, and the location of the nearest
church, public school, or public hospital.  The application shall be
accompanied by the fee levied herein.
   (C)   Any person applying for a renewal of a license or permit for the sale
of alcoholic beverages, issued by authority of the Texas Alcoholic Beverage
Code, shall deliver to the Town Administrator a copy of all documentation filed
with the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission and a copy of the renewed state
license or permit to show that the applicant has been issued a license or
permit to continue to engage in the business by the Alcoholic Beverage
Commission.  At that time, the person shall apply for a renewal of the town
license and pay the fee required herein.  No renewal will be allowed unless the
Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission has issued such a renewal.
   (D)   At the time of filing for each renewal of a license, the person filing
shall also furnish to the Town Administrator a copy of each monthly or
quarterly report filed with the Comptroller and the Alcoholic Beverage
Commission during the previous year setting out gross sales of alcoholic
beverages and gross sales of all nonalcoholic products and services.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 112.03  LICENSE AND LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby levied on each person granted and holding a license or
permit under this chapter and engaged in the business authorized by the
licenses in the town an annual license fee.  The annual license fee shall be in
the maximum amount allowed to be charged by the town under the terms of the
Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute or sell, either
wholesale or retail, any alcoholic beverage without having first paid the
license fee provided and levied by this section and having applied for and
secured from the Town Administrator a license required by the terms and
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the information required to be provided to the Town
Administrator and upon payment of the license fees and upon compliance with the
provisions of this section, the Town Administrator may issue a license or
permit in the name of the town, which shall acknowledge receipt of the license
or permit fees and shall state on its face for what it is issued, the number,
the expiration date of the state license or permit, the name of the town
licensee and state licensee, the address of the business and the issuance and
expiration date of the town license, the signature of the Town Administrator
and the seal of the town.
   (D)   The fees for licenses or permits as required by this chapter shall be
paid in advance for one year.  A separate license or permit, as required by
this chapter, shall be obtained for every place of business where the business
of alcoholic beverage sales is conducted, and license or permit fees for each
location shall be paid.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-12-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  ALLOWABLE LOCATIONS FOR SALES.
   (A)   The sale of alcoholic beverages for on-premises consumption or by any
establishment for on-premise consumption whose sales of alcoholic beverages
equal 75% or more of its total gross revenues shall be permitted only in the
zoning district designated as C-1(c) as established by the present and any
future zoning ordinances.
   (B)   The sale of alcoholic beverages for on-premise consumption is
permitted in the zoning districts designated as C-1(b) and C-1(c) if the gross
sales of products and services other than alcoholic beverages of a business
establishment exceed 50% of the gross sales of the business establishment.
   (C)   The sale of alcoholic beverages shall not be allowed in any other
zoning district than those designated herein.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-12-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05  PROHIBITED PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding the fact that a location may be within a permissible
zoning district, the sale of any alcoholic beverage is hereby prohibited by any
person, where the place of business of any such dealer is within 300 feet of
any church, public school, public school ground, athletic stadium used by any
public school, or public hospital.  The measurements are to be made along the
property lines of the street fronts and from front door to front door and in a
direct line across intersections where they occur.
   (B)   It is provided, however, that once a license is issued, a renewal will
not be denied if a public school, church, or hospital establishes a facility
within 300 feet of the existing business of the dealer in alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-12-2003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06  DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all words, phrases, and terms used herein
shall have the definition and shall be construed as provided in the Texas
Alcoholic Beverage Code.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 112.07  PUBLICATION.
   The Town Secretary is here directed and authorized to cause publication of
this chapter as allowed by law.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 112.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-12-2003)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions hereof, irrespective of whether or not the
verbiage of each section hereof contains the specific language that the
violation or failure to comply is unlawful and is an offense.  Any person who
shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or any of the provisions of
a permit issued pursuant hereto, or who shall fail to comply with the terms
hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, on conviction thereof, be
fined in the sum not to exceed $200 and the violation of each separate
provision thereof shall be considered a separate offense.  Each day’s
continuance of a failure to comply therewith shall constitute a separate and
distinct offense for each of the days.
   (B)   A violation of the terms of this chapter shall result in the
termination of the license issued as provided herein and shall terminate the
right of a person to sell alcoholic beverages in the Town of Lakeside as
permitted by the license.
(Ord. 251, passed 6-12-2003)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Refusing entrance to private residence; posting notice
   
113.02   Shouting of peddlers, hawkers, and vendors
   
113.03   Soliciting in roadways prohibited
Itinerant Merchants
   
113.15   Definition
   
113.16   Sale of edible merchandise
   
113.17   Quality; accurate measures
   
113.18   Permit required
   
113.19   Cancellation
   
113.20   No permits to certain persons
   
113.21   Expiration; fee
Publication Sales and Solicitation
   
113.35   Definition
   
113.36   Registration; identification badge
   
113.37   Prohibited conduct; suspension; cancellation of registration
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01  REFUSING ENTRANCE TO PRIVATE RESIDENCE; POSTING NOTICE.
   (A)   A person desiring that no merchant, salesperson, or solicitor or other
person engage in religious or publication solicitation at his or her residence
shall exhibit, in a conspicuous place upon or near the main entrance to the
residence, a weatherproof card not less than three inches by four inches in
size containing the words “No Solicitors.”  The letters shall be not less than
two-thirds of an inch in height.
   (B)   Every itinerant merchant, salesperson, solicitor, or person engaging
in charitable or publication solicitation, upon going onto any premises upon
which a residence is located, shall first examine the residence to determine if
any notice prohibiting soliciting is exhibited upon or near the main entrance
to the residence.  If a notice prohibiting soliciting is exhibited, the
merchant, salesperson, solicitor, or person who engages in charitable,
religious, or publication solicitation shall immediately depart from the
premises without disturbing the occupant, unless the visit is the result of a
request made by the occupant.
   (C)   No person shall go upon any residential premises and ring the
doorbell, rap or knock upon the door, or create any sound in a manner
calculated to attract attention of the occupant of the residence for the
purpose of securing an audience with the occupant and engaging in or attempting
to engage in charitable, religious, or publication solicitation, or sale of
merchandise as an itinerant merchant transaction, if a card as described in
division (A) above is exhibited in a conspicuous place upon or near the main
entrance to the residence, unless the visit is the result of a request made by
the occupant.
   (D)   No person other than the occupant of the residence shall remove,
deface, or render illegible a card placed by the occupant pursuant to division
(A) above.
   (E)   Any merchant, solicitor, or person engaging in charitable, religious,
or publication solicitation who has gained entrance to a residence or audience
with the occupant, whether invited or not, shall immediately depart from the
premises without disturbing the occupant further when requested to leave by the
occupant.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02  SHOUTING OF PEDDLERS, HAWKERS, AND VENDORS.
   The raucous shouting and crying of peddlers, hawkers, and vendors which
disturbs the peace and quiet of the neighborhood is hereby prohibited.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03  SOLICITING IN ROADWAYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stand or walk on any roadway (as defined by the traffic laws
of the State of Texas) for the purpose of soliciting funds or for advertising
or selling merchandise or service.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)  Penalty, see §
113.99
ITINERANT MERCHANTS
§ 113.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT.  Any person who sells or takes orders from house to
house or from place to place in the town or who sells out of a vehicle parked
on premises where there is no related business building.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)
§ 113.16  SALE OF EDIBLE MERCHANDISE.
   Every person who is licensed as an itinerant merchant to peddle edible
merchandise as required by this chapter shall keep all articles for sale to the
public in a clean and sanitary condition, at well as the wagons, vehicles, or
other conveyances used in the transportation of the merchandise.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.17  QUALITY; ACCURATE MEASURES.
   It shall be unlawful for any itinerant merchant to sell or offer to sell any
unsound or unwholesome merchandise or to give a false weight or measure to the
article sold or offered for sale.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.18  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every itinerant merchant as defined in this subchapter shall be
required to obtain a permit prior to engaging in the business of an itinerant
merchant.  An applicant for the permit shall file an application in writing
with the Town Secretary not less than ten days before the first month in which
he or she proposes to engage in business as an itinerant merchant.
   (B)   The application must contain the following information:
      (1)   The full name of the person applying for a permit, his or her
address and telephone number, if any, and if the itinerant merchant is selling
on behalf of an organization, the name and address of the parent organization;
      (2)   The addresses of the itinerant merchant during the previous five
years with the name of at least one reference in each community;
      (3)   The fingerprints of the itinerant merchant;
      (4)   A copy of a limited sales tax permit issued by the state or proof
that the goods sold are not subject to the sales tax;
      (5)   A statement of the type of goods or wares to be sold; and
      (6)   A copy of a current health certificate if merchandise of edible
quality is to be sold; provided, however, this shall not apply to the sale of
candy, nuts, or other edibles prepared and packaged by a nationally recognized
manufacturer or a Texas manufacturer meeting standards imposed by state and
local health codes, if the packages are unbroken.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)
§ 113.19  CANCELLATION.
   Each itinerant merchant permit issued under this subchapter shall be subject
to cancellation for any violation of any provision of this chapter applicable
to itinerant merchants.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)
§ 113.20  NO PERMITS TO CERTAIN PERSONS.
   No itinerant merchant permit shall be issued to any person who shall have
been convicted of any crime of moral turpitude.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)
§ 113.21  EXPIRATION; FEE.
   Each itinerant merchant permit shall expire at the end of the calendar year
in which it was issued.  A fee of $50 shall be paid to the town for the
issuance of each permit under this subchapter.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)
PUBLICATION SALES AND SOLICITATION
§ 113.35  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLICATION SOLICITATION.  Conduct whereby a person sells or takes orders
for sales of newspapers, magazines, or other publications (including audio and
visual recordings).
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)
§ 113.36  REGISTRATION; IDENTIFICATION BADGE.
   (A)   A person who engages in publication solicitation and who goes
personally from house to house shall first register with the Town Secretary
giving the following information:
      (1)   Name of registrant and residence address;
      (2)   Name and address of organization (if any) employing registrant;
      (3)   Names or description of publications to be sold or for which
solicitation is to be made; and
      (4)   Date solicitations or sales are to commence and cease.
   (B)   Registration expires at 12:00 a.m. December 31 each year and must be
renewed annually.  If a change occurs in any of the information submitted with
the registration, the person or organization shall notify the Town Secretary of
the change.
   (C)   The Town Secretary shall, within two business days after the
submission of the application, issue to the applicant an easily readable
identification badge meeting the requirements of division (D) below.  The badge
shall be displayed upon request of any person upon whom the solicitor calls and
upon the request of any town police officer.
   (D)   The identification badge required by division (C) above must contain:
      (1)   The name of the person to whom it is issued;
      (2)   The name of the organization (if any) which employs or pays the
commission of the person doing the solicitation;
      (3)   The words “publication solicitation”; and
      (4)   The date issued.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)
§ 113.37  PROHIBITED CONDUCT; SUSPENSION; CANCELLATION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A person engaged in publication solicitation shall not:
      (1)   Go from house to house without first registering as herein
required;
      (2)   Refuse to display the registration badge provided to him or her;
      (3)   Misrepresent to the Town Secretary, or any person solicited for a
sale or order, the purpose of the solicitation, the identity of the
organization doing the solicitation, the identity of the person doing the
solicitation, the price of a publication, its source, or the beneficiary of
profits derived from solicitation;
      (4)   Obstruct or impede the passage of a pedestrian or vehicle; and
      (5)   Make physical contact with the person being solicited without the
permission of the person.
   (B)   Conduct prohibited by division (A) above shall be deemed a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Should a violation of division (A)(3) above come to the attention of
the Town Secretary, the officer shall immediately suspend the registration of
the person alleged to have made the misrepresentation and notify the person of
the availability of a hearing before the Town Secretary or a designee.  Unless
a request for a hearing is received within five business days of the date
notice is mailed by the Town Secretary, the suspension shall become final and
the registration shall be cancelled.  If a request for a hearing is received, a
hearing shall be afforded before the Town Secretary or his or her designated
examiner within three business days of the request.  After the hearing the
person holding the hearing shall immediately either lift the suspension or, if
it is concluded that and the conclusion is supported by substantial evidence
that a violation has occurred, cancel the registration.  No new registration
shall be issued the person for a period of six months following the
cancellation.
   (D)   Any person denied a registration or whose registration has been
cancelled may seek relief by filing a petition for certiorari to a district
court of Tarrant County, Texas, within 20 days of the act complained of.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon final conviction
thereof, be fined in the amount not to exceed $1,000.  Each and every day any
such violation shall continue shall constitute a separate violation hereunder.
(Ord. 123, passed 1-4-1990)
CHAPTER 114:  MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License; required
   
114.03   License; display
   
114.04   License; investigation of applicant
   
114.05   License; applicant to furnish names of employees; medical certificates
for employees
   
114.06   License; fee; refund
   
114.07   License; refusal to issue or renew
   
114.08   License; revocation; suspension
   
114.09   License; appeal from refusal to grant or renew; from decision to
revoke or suspend
   
114.10   Hours of operation; living quarters prohibited
   
114.11   Inspection of massage establishments; examination of employees
   
114.12   List of employees
   
114.13   Operation in residential area prohibited
   
114.14   Sanitary requirements
   
114.15   Administering massage to person of opposite sex
   
114.16   Effective date
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF OF POLICE.  The Chief of Police of the Town of Lakeside, or his or her
duly authorized representative.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC HEALTH.  The Director of Public Health of the Town of
Lakeside, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   MASSAGE.  Any process consisting of kneading, rubbing, or otherwise
manipulating the skin of the body of a human being, either with the hand or by
means of electrical instruments or apparatus, or other special apparatus, but
shall not include massage by duly licensed physicians and chiropractors, and
registered physical therapists who treat only patients recommended by a
licensed physician and who operate only under the physician’s direction, nor
massage of the face practiced by beauty parlors or barbershops duly licensed
under the penal code of the state.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.  Any building, room, place, or establishment, other
than a regularly licensed hospital, where manipulated massage or manipulated
exercises are practiced upon the human body by anyone not a duly licensed
physician or chiropractor whether with or without the use of mechanical,
therapeutic, or bathing devices, and shall include Turkish bathhouses.  This
term shall not include, however, duly licensed beauty parlors or barbershops or
a place wherein registered physical therapists treat only patients recommended
by a licensed physician and operate only under physician’s direction.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.02  LICENSE; REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a massage establishment
without first having obtained a license therefor from the assessor and
collector of taxes in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, or to
operate a massage establishment after the license has been revoked, or during a
period for which the license has been suspended.  The license shall be issued
only upon the payment of the fee specified in §
114.06 and upon the approval in writing of the Director of Public Health and of
the Chief of Police and upon the issuance of a certificate of occupancy from
the Building Official.  The license shall expire on December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03  LICENSE; DISPLAY.
   The license required by this chapter shall be posted and kept in some
conspicuous place in the massage establishment.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04  LICENSE; INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   After an application has been made for issuance of an original license or a
renewal of an existing license to operate a massage establishment as defined
herein, the Chief of Police, as the principal enforcement officer of this
chapter, shall determine whether the applicant has been finally convicted in
any court of theft, fornication, sodomy, procuring, pandering, keeping a bawdy
house, keeping an assignation house, engaging in prostitution or engaging in
assignation, or whether the establishment employs any person who has been
finally convicted in any court of theft, fornication, sodomy, procuring,
pandering, keeping a bawdy house, keeping an assignation house, engaging in
prostitution, or engaging in assignation.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.05  LICENSE; APPLICANT TO FURNISH NAMES OF EMPLOYEES; MEDICAL
CERTIFICATES FOR EMPLOYEES.
   At the time of making application for the license required by this chapter,
the applicant shall furnish to the Chief of Police and the Director of Public
Health the names and addresses of all employees of massage establishments, and
all the employees shall be required to secure from the Director of Public
Health a medical certificate certifying that the employee has been examined and
that the examination discloses the fact that the person employed, or to be
employed by the establishment, is free from any infectious or communicable
disease.  The medical certificate shall be renewed annually by the Director of
Public Health.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.06  LICENSE; FEE; REFUND.
   The annual license fee shall be $500 for each such establishment.  If the
license is obtained between January 1 and June 30 of any year, the full amount
of the fee shall be paid.  If the license is obtained between July 1 and
December 31 of any year, the fee shall be one-half of the amount.  No refund of
license fees shall be made.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.07  LICENSE; REFUSAL TO ISSUE OR RENEW.
   The Chief of Police shall refuse to approve issuance or renewal of any
license required by this chapter to any applicant who has been finally
convicted in any court of theft, fornication, sodomy, procuring, pandering,
keeping a bawdy house, keeping an assignation house, engaging in prostitution
or engaging in assignation; or to any applicant who employs in the
establishment any person who has been finally convicted of theft, fornication,
sodomy, procuring, pandering, keeping a bawdy house, keeping an assignation
house, engaging in prostitution, or engaging in assignation.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.08  LICENSE; REVOCATION; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked upon final
conviction in any court of the holder of the license for the offense of theft,
fornication, sodomy, procuring, pandering, keeping a bawdy house, keeping an
assignation house, engaging in prostitution, or engaging in assignation.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be suspended for a
period of not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days upon final conviction in
any court of the holder of the license for the operation of the massage
establishment in violation of any statute of this state, or any provision of
this code or any other ordinance of the Town of Lakeside.
   (C)   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be suspended for a
period of 90 days upon the final conviction in any court of any employee of the
massage establishment for the offense of theft, fornication, sodomy, procuring,
pandering, keeping a bawdy house, keeping an assignation house, engaging in
prostitution or engaging in assignation, or a violation of any provision of
this chapter.
   (D)   Written notice of the revocation or suspension shall be given by the
Chief of Police to the holder of the license at the holder’s last known
business address.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.09  LICENSE; APPEAL FROM REFUSAL TO GRANT OR RENEW; FROM DECISION TO
REVOKE OR SUSPEND.
   In the event the Chief of Police shall refuse to approve the issuance of an
original license or the renewal of a license to any applicant, or revokes or
suspends the license issued to any license holder under this chapter, this
action shall be final unless the license holder shall, within ten days after
the receipt of written notice of the action, file with the Town Manager a
written appeal.  The Town Manager shall, within ten days after the appeal is
filed, consider all the evidence in support of or against the action appealed,
and render a decision either sustaining or reversing the action.  If the Town
Manager sustains the action, the applicant or license holder may, within ten
days of that decision file a written appeal with the Town Secretary to the City
Council.  The written appeal shall set forth the specific grounds therefor. 
The City Council shall, within 30 days, grant a hearing thereon to consider the
action, at which hearing the City Council may make the investigation as it may
see fit.  The City Council shall have authority to sustain, reverse, or modify
the action appealed.  The decision of the City Council shall be final.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.10  HOURS OF OPERATION; LIVING QUARTERS PROHIBITED.
   No massage establishment shall be kept open for any purpose between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., and no establishment shall be operated or
conducted in connection either directly or indirectly, with any place used for
living or sleeping quarters.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.11  INSPECTION OF MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS; EXAMINATION OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   The Director of Public Health shall be authorized to make or cause to
be made inspections to determine the condition of any massage establishment in
order to safeguard the health, safety, and welfare of the public and to make
examinations through the licensed physicians of the department as are necessary
to determine whether employees of the massage establishment are infected with
any infectious disease.
   (B)   If in the opinion of the Director of Public Health or his or her
designated representative, there is probable cause to enter a massage
establishment for the purpose of making inspections and examinations pursuant
to this chapter, he or she shall request the owner or occupant thereof to grant
permission for the entry, and if refused he or she shall make application to a
magistrate for a search warrant, showing the magistrate why the search warrant
should be issued for the purpose herein.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.12  LIST OF EMPLOYEES.
   The manager or person in charge of a massage establishment shall keep a list
of the names and addresses of all employees, both on duty and off duty, and the
list shall be shown to all proper authorities of the Police and Health
Departments upon request.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.13  OPERATION IN RESIDENTIAL AREA PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any massage establishment to be operated in any
section of the town which is zoned for residential, local retail, and park
commercial purposes.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.14  SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person conducting or operating a massage
establishment to keep the same at all times in a clean and sanitary condition. 
All instruments and mechanical, therapeutic, and bathing devices or parts
thereof, that come into contact with the human body, shall be sterilized by a
modern and approved method of sterilization before initial use, and any such
instruments and devices, or parts thereof, after having been used upon one
patron, shall be sterilized before being used upon another.  All towels and
linens furnished for use of one patron shall not be furnished for use of
another until thoroughly laundered.
   (B)   All masseurs and operators shall wash their hands thoroughly before
administering massage manipulations to each patron accommodated.
   (C)   No person suffering from a communicable disease shall work or be
employed in a massage establishment.
   (D)   No person shall be accommodated as a patron within a massage
establishment when to the knowledge of the owner, person in control, or an
employee, the person is suffering from a communicable disease.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
§ 114.15  ADMINISTERING MASSAGE TO PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to administer a massage as defined in §
114.01 to any person of the opposite sex; provided, however, that this section
shall not apply to any physician or chiropractor, nor shall it apply to any
registered physical therapist or registered nurse operating under the direction
of a physician.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.16  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective from and after passage and publication
hereof.
(Ord. 82, passed 7-10-1978)
CHAPTER 115:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Purpose and intent
   
115.03   Classification
   
115.04   Inspection
   
115.05   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
115.06   Exemption from location restrictions
   
115.07   Display of sexually explicit material to minors
   
115.08   Sign regulations
   
115.09   General regulations for sexually oriented businesses
   
115.10   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
115.11   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
115.12   Additional regulations for adult theaters and adult motion picture
theaters
   
115.13   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
115.14   Additional regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit
films or videos
Licenses
   
115.20   License requirement
   
115.21   License issuance
   
115.22   License fees
   
115.23   Expiration of license
   
115.24   Suspension of license
   
115.25   Revocation of license
   
115.26   Appeal
   
115.27   Transfer of license
   
115.28   Employee background checks
   
115.29   Conduct of employees
   
115.30   Hours of operation
 
   
115.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which as
one of its principal business purposes offers for sale or rental for any form
of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations which depict or describe specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way
which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A commercial establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized
by the depiction or description of specified sexual activities of specific
anatomical areas.
   ADULT THEATER.  A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   APPLICANT.
      (1)   A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business will be issued;
      (2)   Each individual who signs an application for a sexually oriented
business as required by this chapter;
      (3)   Each individual who is an officer of a sexually oriented business
for which a license application is made, regardless of whether the individual's
name or signature appears on the application;
      (4)   Each individual who has a 20% or greater ownership interest in a
sexually oriented business for which a license application is made, regardless
of whether the individual's name appears on the application; and
      (5)   Each individual who exercises substantial de facto control over a
sexually oriented business for which a license application is made, regardless
of whether the individual's name or signature appears on the application.
   CHIEF OF POLICE.  The Chief of Police of the town or a designated agent of
the Chief.
   CONVICTION.  A conviction in a federal court or a court of any state or
foreign nation or political subdivision of a state or foreign nation that has
not been reversed, vacated, or pardoned.  CONVICTION includes disposition of
charges against a person by probation.
   EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   Any person who renders any service whatsoever to the customers of a
sexually oriented business or who works on the premises of a sexually oriented
business that receives any form of compensation, including tips or gratuities,
from the operator, manager, customers, other employees or entertainment
personnel and in exchange therefor:
         (a)   Renders any work, service, performance or exhibition whatsoever,
directly or indirectly, to or for a customer; or
         (b)   Renders any other support service whatsoever, directly or
indirectly, for or on behalf of the furtherance of the business operations.
      (2)   EMPLOYEE includes, but is not necessarily limited to, bartenders,
cashiers, dancers, disc jockeys, escorts, hosts, hostesses, models, masseurs,
outcall persons, strippers, models, waiters, waitresses, or other persons
working on or about the premises.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a strip tease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY or STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals or areola of the female breast.
   OPERATES or CAUSES TO BE OPERATED.  To cause to function or to put or keep
in operation. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be operated a
sexually oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner
or licensee of the business.
   OPERATOR.
      (1)   The person(s) in whose name a valid license has been issued for a
sexually oriented business pursuant to this chapter; and
      (2)   Each individual listed as an applicant on the application for a
sexually oriented business license; and
      (3)   Each individual who is an officer of a sexually oriented business
for which a license has been issued, regardless of whether the individual's
name or signature appears on the application; and
      (4)   Each individual who has a 20% or greater ownership interest in a
sexually oriented business for which a license has been issued, regardless of
whether the individual's name appears on the application; and
      (5)   Each individual who exercises substantial de facto control over a
sexually oriented business for which a license has been issued, regardless of
whether the individual's name or signature appears on the application; and
      (6)   The person(s) in whose a name a specialized certificate would be
required in order to lawfully operate a sexually oriented business pursuant to
this chapter; and
      (7)   Any individual who is in control of the operations of a sexually
oriented business, either on an hourly basis, daily basis, weekly basis or
shift basis or any combination thereof; and
      (8)   The person(s) who operates or causes to be operated any form of
sexually oriented business, which is subject to regulation pursuant to this
chapter.
   OUTCALL BUSINESS.  A commercial venture that provides employees or
entertainment personnel who, in exchange for a fee, commission, tip or other
consideration, goes to the location requested by the customer and while there:
      (1)   Privately models lingerie or other intimate wearing apparel; or
      (2)   Privately performs a strip tease; or
      (3)   Privately performs a semi-nude or nude modeling session; or
      (4)   Bathes or massages the customer;
      (5)   But shall not include persons otherwise engaged in legitimate, non-
sexually oriented activities or services such as licensed private nurses,
licensed physical therapists, aides for the elderly or handicapped, or similar
persons whose business or service relationship with their patron is not
characterized by sexually oriented activities.
   PERSON.  An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association or other legal entity.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.  A single-family, duplex, medium density, multiple-
family or mobile home zoning district as defined in the town zoning ordinance.
   RESIDENTIAL USE.  A single-family, medium density, multi-family use or
mobile home use as defined in the town zoning ordinance.
   SEMI-NUDE.  A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and areola of a female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER.  A business or commercial enterprise that, as one
of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling, tumbling or other
physical interaction between persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
   SIGN. Any on-premise display, design, pictorial, or other representation
that is constructed, placed, attached, painted, erected, fastened or displayed
in any manner whatsoever so that it is visible from the outside of a sexually
oriented business and used to seek the attraction of the public to any goods,
services, or merchandise available at the sexually oriented business. The term
SIGN also includes any representation painted on or otherwise affixed to any
exterior portion of a sexually oriented business establishment or to any part
of the tract upon which the establishment is situated.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) of this definition.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  The increase in
floor area occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor area exists
on the date a license is originally issued to an applicant.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease, sublease or conveyance in any form of the
business, either of its assets or its operational rights;
      (2)   The transfer of securities of any kind or nature, including debt or
equity securities, which constitute a controlling interest in the business,
whether by sale, exchange, foreclosure, enforcement of lien or security
interests or similar means; or
      (3)   The transfer by reason of death or disability or bankruptcy to any
person or business entity of an interest of 20% or more of the licensee.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.02  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the town, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the concentration of sexually oriented businesses within the town. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market.
   (B)   It is the intent of the City Council that the locational regulations
of §
115.05 are promulgated pursuant to Tex. Local Gov't Code,  Ch. 243, as they
apply to nude model studios and sexual encounter centers only. It is the intent
of the City Council that all other provisions of this chapter are promulgated
pursuant to the City Charter and Tex. Local Gov't Code, Chs. 51, 54, 215 and
217.
   (C)   This chapter intends a balance of the right of the citizens of the
town to maintain a decent moral society and, on the other hand, the right of
individuals to express themselves freely in accordance with the guidelines of
the Constitution of the United States and United States Supreme Court rulings
pursuant thereto.
   (D)   This chapter is also intended to deter property uses and activities,
which directly or indirectly, cause or would cause adverse secondary effects,
including the deprecation of property values, on the stability of the immediate
neighborhood surrounding the sexually oriented business.
   (E)   This chapter has neither the primary purpose nor primary effect of
imposing an unreasonable limitation or restriction on the content of any
communicative materials, including sexually oriented materials.
   (F)   Similarly, it is not the purpose or intent of this chapter to
unreasonably restrict or absolutely deny lawful access by adults to sexually
oriented materials or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of
sexually oriented materials to their intended market.
   (G)   Similarly, it is not the purpose or intent of this chapter to impose
judgment on the content or merits of any Constitutionally protected form of
speech or expression.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.03  CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstores or adult video stores:
   (C)   Adult cabarets:
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.04  INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department and the Office of Building
Inspection to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the
purpose of insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open
for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits an offense if he or she refuses to permit a lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.05  LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person, including an operator of a sexually oriented business,
commits an offense if he or she operates or permits the operation, or
establishment of a sexually oriented business in a zoning district that does
not expressly permit that type of use in the zoning district.
   (B)   No sexually oriented business shall be located within 600 feet of:
      (1)   A church;
      (2)   A public or private elementary or secondary school or daycare
center;
      (3)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   A public park; or
      (5)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as
established by the zoning ordinances of the town.
   (C)   No sexually oriented business shall be opened, established, or
operated within 1,000 feet of another sexually oriented business.
   (D)   A person commits an offense if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure or portion thereof, or the increase of
floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   (E)   For the purposes of division (B) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church or public or private elementary or secondary
school, or to the nearest boundary of an affected public park, residential
district, or residential lot.
   (F)   For purposes of division (B) above, the distance between any two
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequently to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, public park, residential district or
residential lot within 1,000 feet of the sexually oriented business. This
provision applies only to the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply
when an application for a license is submitted after a license has expired or
has been revoked.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06  EXEMPTION FROM LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   If the City Secretary denies the issuance of a license to an applicant
because the location of the sexually oriented business establishment is in
violation of §
115.05, then the applicant may, not later than ten calendar days after
receiving notice of the denial, file with the City Secretary a written request
for an exemption from the locational restrictions of §
115.05.
   (B)   If the written request is filed with the City Secretary within the
ten-day limit, a Permit and License Appeal Board shall consider the request.
The Permit and License Appeal Board shall consist of the Mayor, one City
Council Member and a third person to be jointly selected by the Mayor and the 
City Council Member. Such person must live or operate a business within the
city. The City Secretary shall set a date for the hearing within 60 days from
the date the written request is received.
   (C)   A hearing by the Board may proceed if at least two of the Board
members are present. The Board shall hear and consider evidence offered by any
interested person. The formal rules of evidence do not apply.
   (D)   The Permit and License Appeal Board may, in its discretion, grant an
exemption from the locational restrictions of §
115.05 if it makes the following findings:
      (1)   That the location of the proposed sexually oriented business will
not have a detrimental effect on nearby properties or be contraiy to the public
safety or welfare;
      (2)   That the granting of the exemption will not violate the spirit and
intent of this chapter;
      (3)   That the location of the proposed sexually oriented business will
not downgrade the property values or quality of life in the adjacent areas or
encourage the development of urban blight;
      (4)   That the location of an additional sexually oriented business in
the area will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation nor
will it interfere with any efforts of urban renewal or restoration; and
      (5)   That all other applicable provisions of this chapter will be
observed.
   (E)   The Board shall grant or deny the exemption by a majority vote.
Failure to reach a majority vote shall result in denial of the exemption.
Disputes of fact shall be decided on the basis of a preponderance of the
evidence. The decision of the Permit and License Appeal Board is final.
   (F)   If the Board grants the exemption, the exemption is valid for one year
from the date of the Board's action. Upon the expiration of an exemption, the
sexually oriented business is in violation of the locational restrictions of §
115.05 until the applicant applies for and receives another exemption.
   (G)   If the Board denies the exemption, the applicant may not reapply for
an exemption until at least 12 months have elapsed since the date of the
Board's action.
   (H)   The grant of an exemption does not exempt the applicant from any other
provisions of this chapter other than the locational restrictions of §
115.05.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.07  DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL TO MINORS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if, in a business establishment open to
persons under the age of 17 years, he or she displays a book, pamphlet,
newspaper, magazine, film or video cassette, the cover of which depicts, in a
manner calculated to arouse sexual lust or passion for commercial gain, any of
the following:
      (1)   Human sexual intercourse, masturbation or sodomy;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (3)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, buttocks,
or that portion of the female breast below the top of the areola; or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, whether covered
or uncovered.
   (B)   In this section DISPLAY means to locate an item in such a manner that,
without obtaining assistance from an employee of the business establishment:
      (1)   It is available to the general public for handling and inspection;
or
      (2)   The cover or outside packaging on the item is visible to members of
the general public.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.08  SIGN REGULATIONS
   (A)   Business requirements for posting signs concerning intent to locate a
sexually oriented business are as follows:
      (1)   An applicant for a license for a location for which a license has
not previously been issued shall post an outdoor sign at the location in
compliance with Tex. Local Gov't Code, § 243.0075, as amended, not later than
the sixtieth day before submitting the application for a license to the Town
Administrator.
      (2)   The sign shall comply with the following requirements:
         (a)   The sign must be at least 24 by 36 inches in size;
         (b)   All letters must be at least two inches in height and one and
one-half inches in width for each letter on the sign;
         (c)   The sign shall state that a sexually oriented business is
intended to be located on the premises;
         (d)   The sign shall provide the name and business address of the
owner and operator;
         (e)   All required information must be presented in both English and
Spanish;
         (f)   All required information must read horizontally from left to
right; and
         (g)   The sign shall be prominently posted such that it is clearly
legible from the public right-of-way.
      (3)   The operator of a proposed sexually oriented business shall notify
the Town Administrator, by certified mail or hand delivery, when a sign is
posted at the intended location of the business in compliance with Tex. Local
Gov't Code, § 243.0075, as amended. The notification must be in the form of a
sworn statement indicating the location of the sign and the date it was posted
and must be received by the Town Administrator within five days after the
posting of the sign. If the Town Administrator receives the notification within
five days after the sign was posted, the 60-day posting period required by Tex.
Local Gov't Code, § 243.0075 shall be deemed to begin on the posting date. If
the notification is received by the Town Administrator more than five days
after the sign was posted, the 60-day posting requirement shall be deemed to
begin on the date the Town Administrator verifies the sign has been posted.
      (4)   When a sign is posted at an intended location of a sexually
oriented business and the intended location is not in violation of the distance
requirements set out in this chapter on the posting date, the sexually oriented
business will qualify as a conforming use with regard to the distance
requirements and will not be rendered nonconforming by any location, subsequent
to the posting of the sign, of a religious institution, school, public park or
residential district within 1,000 feet of the posted location.
   (B)   Signs located at each public entrance shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The operator shall maintain at least one conspicuous permanently
mounted sign, presented in both English and Spanish, at each public entrance,
in accordance with the city's sign codes, of a size of at least 18 inches in
height and 24 inches in width, easily visible and legible to all persons prior
to entry into the establishment, with all letters at least one-half inch in
height and three-quarters inch in width for each letter on the sign which
contains a statement to the effect:
"THIS IS A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT WHICH REGULARLY FEATURES
[description of the type of activity or merchandise as permitted herein]. IF
NUDITY OR ACTIVITY OF A SEXUAL NATURE OFFENDS YOU, DO NOT COME IN. NO PERSON
UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE ALLOWED ENTRY."
[If alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed on the premises] - "NO PERSON
UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE ALLOWED ENTRY."
   (C)   Exterior signs for sexually oriented businesses shall comply to the
following:
      (1)   Notwithstanding any provision of the Town of Lakeside Code or any
other town ordinance, code, or regulation to the contrary, the owner or
operator of any sexually orienled business or any other person commits an
offense if he or she erects, constructs, or maintains any on-premise sign for
the establishment other than one primary sign and one secondary sign as
provided in this section.
      (2)   A primary sign may have no more than two display surfaces. Each
display must:
         (a)   Not contain any flashing lights;
         (b)   Be a flat plane, excluding the lettering; and
         (c)   Be rectangular in shape.
      (3)   A secondary sign may have only one display surface. The display
surface must:
         (a)   Not contain any flashing lights;
         (b)   Be a flat plane, excluding the lettering;
         (c)   Be rectangular in shape; and
         (d)   Be affixed or attached to a wall or door of the establishment.
      (4)   A primary or secondary sign must contain no photographs,
silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any manner, and may
contain only the name of the establishment; and/or one or more of the following
phrases:
         (a)   Adult arcade;
         (b)   Adult bookstore or adult video store;
         (c)   Adult cabaret;
         (d)   Adult motel;
         (e)   Adult motion picture theater;
         (f)   Escort agency;
         (g)   Adult model studio;
         (h)   Sexual encounter center.
      (5)   A primary sign for an adult motion picture theater may contain the
phrase, "Movie Titles Posted on Premises," in addition to the phrases listed in
division (C)(4) above.
      (6)   Each letter forming a word on a primary or secondary sign must be
of a solid color, and each letter must be the same print-type, size and color.
The background behind the lettering on the display surface of a primary or
secondary sign must be of a uniform and solid color.
      (7)   Any sign located on the premises of a commercial multi-unit center
containing a sexually oriented business enterprise that displays the name or
any portion of the name of the sexually oriented business, displays any name
under which such business was formerly operated on the premises, or that
contains any of the terms set for the in division (C)(4) above or any other
terminology that is commonly used to identify, or is associated with the
presence of a sexually oriented business, shall comply with all restrictions of
this section. The intent of this division is to prevent the use of signage
identifying the commercial multi-tenant center itself from being used as a
subterfuge to evade the restrictions on sexually oriented business signs set
forth in this section.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.09  GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   All operators, managers, employees, entertainment personnel or other
persons, including customers shall permit the lawful inspection or enforcement
activities of town enforcement personnel on any portion of the premises or of
any aspect of the activities being conducted therein.
   (B)   All operators, managers, employees, or entertainment personnel shall
furnish information or documentation requested by town enforcement personnel as
part of an inspection or law enforcement activity on the premises or of the
activities being conducted therein.
   (C)   All operators, managers, employees, or entertainment personnel shall
maintain any portion of the premises in a manner so as to permit the
inspections or enforcement activities by town enforcement personnel.
   (D)   The operator, manager, employee or entertainment personnel shall not
knowingly permit or allow any customer access to any area of the premises that
has been designated as an area not open to customers as per the floor plan
approved by town staff pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   All operators shall maintain a person on the premises while occupied
or open for business with the authority and responsibilities as manager over
all of the business operation, its activities, employees and entertainment
personnel. The operator and manager may be the same person.
   (F)   An operator may not knowingly employ or engage the service of any
person under 18 years of age as an employee or entertainment personnel for the
sexually oriented business.
   (G)   No customer or patron under the age of 21 of age may enter or remain
within the premises of a sexually oriented business while the establishment is
open for business and alcoholic beverages are sold or consumed.
   (H)   No person may appear in a state of nudity or engage in specified
sexual activities on any portion of the premises outside the building, which is
capable of being viewed from a public street or right-of-way.
   (I)   Internal video surveillance systems may be used only to monitor the
premises or activity for legitimate security or safety purposes. In its
application for a license, the establishment shall state whether it intends to
have a video surveillance system and shall show the location of each
surveillance camera on its diagram of the premises. However, no such
surveillance shall be allowed of any restroom area. This division shall not
apply to video projection systems.
   (J)   The operator shall maintain on the premises at all times a current
copy of all town ordinances regarding or regulating sexually oriented business
activity so as to keep all managers, employees and entertainment personnel duly
advised of the applicable town ordinances regarding the sexually oriented
business, and its permitted, as well as prohibited activities, so as to
minimize prospective violations and offenses on the premises.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.10  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years, except a person under the age of 18 may act strictly as a chauffeur for
an agency.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.11  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years nor shall it allow any person under the age of 18 years on the premises.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model studio.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.12  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT THEATERS AND ADULT MOTION PICTURE
THEATERS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of an adult theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
knowingly appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of an adult
theater or adult motion picture theater.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a sleeping room
to a person and, within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or she
rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT
FILMS OR VIDEOS.
   (A)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 625 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Upon application for sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's
station may be made without the prior approval of the Chief of Police or his
designee.
      (3)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (4)   The interior of the premises shall provide for one or more
manager's stations, none of which shall exceed 32 square feet of floor area.
The manager's station shall be designed to provide a monitoring location for
the operators or employees of the establishment during business hours and to
exclude members of the general public. The interior of the premises shall be
configured so that there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of
every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any
purpose, excluding restrooms. If the premises are so configured then there
shall be more than one manager's station in order that an unobstructed view of
the entire premises where patrons are permitted, excluding restrooms, is
available. The view required in this division must be by direct line of sight
from the manager's station. Each manager's station must be occupied at all
time.
      (5)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the view area specified in division (A)(4) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times that
any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to
division (A)(1) above.
      (6)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot-candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (7)    It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under division (A) above commits an offense if
he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)  Penalty, see §
115.99
LICENSES
§ 115.20  LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates a sexually oriented
business without a valid license, issued by the town for the particular type of
business.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
office of the City Secretary. The application must be accompanied by a sketch
or diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a statement of
total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be
professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with
marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or
minus six inches.
   (C)   The applicant must not be be disqualified according to the provisions
of this chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he or she must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has a 20% or greater interest in the business
must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must not
be disqualified under this chapter, and each applicant shall be considered a
licensee if a license is granted.
   (E)   The fact that a person possesses a valid town license for any other
business or commercial operation does not exempt him or her from the
requirement of obtaining a sexually oriented business license. A person who
operates a sexually oriented business and possesses a town license for any
other business or commercial operation shall comply with the requirements and
provisions of this subchapter  as well as all other town ordinances, provisions
of this code or zoning ordinance requirements, when applicable.
   (F)   The application must be accompanied by:
      (1)   A sketch or diagram drawn to scale of the floor plan(s).  A
professionally prepared sketch or diagram in the nature of an engineer or
architect's blueprint is recommended but shall not be required.  Each sketch or
diagram shall be oriented to the north or to some designated street or
landmark.  Each sketch or diagram shall be drawn to a designated scale or with
marked dimensions sufficient to show the various dimensions of all areas,
walls, doors, windows or other material aspects of the premises.  Each sketch
or diagram shall include at least the following:
         (a)   The internal and external configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the structure;
         (b)   A statement fully describing the external signage to be
displayed on the premises, as well as signage intended to be displayed
elsewhere in the town to advertise the business;
         (c)   The location of one or more manager's stations or office;
         (d)   The location of all electrical wiring and fixtures, including
but not limited to lighting fixtures (including the illumination level of the
fixtures), sound systems, special effects equipment, video display equipment,
video surveillance systems, etc.;
         (e)   Designation of any portion of the premises in which customers
will not be permitted or in which sexually oriented business activities will
not be conducted;
         (f)   A plan or description of the safety and security measures for
the inside and outside of the premises, its customers and employees; and
         (g)   A designation of the place(s) at which the license, a copy of
the floor plan(s), and other necessary permits, licenses and signage will be
conspicuously posted.
         (h)   The location of all bathrooms and the gender of each bathroom.
      (2)   All new applications shall include a certified survey map prepared
by a licensed surveyor or licensed engineer which shows the required minimum
distances from properties with protected uses or protected zoning.
      (3)   Each applicant shall sign a waiver and authorization form
authorizing the Chief of Police to request on behalf of the applicant criminal
history reports from the Texas Department of Public Safety and any appropriate
federal agency.
      (4)   Each application shall contain the following statements signed by
each applicant:
         (a)   "I represent that I have personal knowledge of all statements
made and information given in this application and that the information is true
and correct";
         (b)   If required by law or this chapter, that an outdoor sign was
posted in conformance with this subchapter and state law not later than the
sixtieth day before the date the application was filed; and
         (c)   Each applicant has read the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.21  LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Secretary shall approve the issuance of a license to an
applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application unless a finding is
made by the City Secretary or the Chief of Police that one of the following is
true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
      (2)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue in payment to the
town of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the
applicant or the applicant's spouse in relation to a sexually oriented
business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information or drawings as
required by this chapter for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form.
      (4)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a
violation of a provision of this chapter, other than the offense of operating a
sexually oriented business without a license, within two years immediately
preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect.
      (5)   The license fee required by this subchapter has not been paid.
      (6)   An applicant or applicant's spouse has been employed in a sexually
oriented business in a managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and
has demonstrated an inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented business
premises in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
      (7)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any provision of this chapter.
      (8)   An applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a
crime:
         (a)   Involving:
            1.   Any of the following offenses as described in Tex. Penal Code,
Ch. 43:
               a.   Prostitution;
               b.   Promotion of prostitution;
               c.   Aggravated promotion of prostitution;
               d.   Compelling prostitution:
               e.   Obscenity;
               f.   Sale, distribution or display of harmful material to minor;
               g.   Sexual performance by a child;
               h.   Possession of child pornography;
            2.   Any of the following offenses as described in Tex. Penal Code,
Ch. 21:
               a.   Public lewdness;
               b.   Indecent exposure;
               c.   Indecency with a child;
            3.   Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault as described in
Tex. Penal Code, Ch. 22;
            4.   Prohibited sexual conduct or enticing a child, as described in
Tex. Penal Code, Ch. 25; or
            5.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses;
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; or
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of offenses occurring within any 24-month period.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
   (C)   When issued, the certificate shall state on its face:
      (1)   The full name, address and telephone number of the person(s) (the
operator) to whom it is granted;
      (2)   The name, address and telephone number of the establishment;
      (3)   A description of specifically what type of sexually oriented
business operation has been approved to be conducted on the premises; and
      (4)   The expiration date.
   (D)   The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be easily read at any
time.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.22  LICENSE FEES.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license is $500.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.23  EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in this chapter. Application for
renewal should be made at least 30 days before the expiration date, and when
made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the
license will not be affected.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.24  SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The Chief of Police may suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if he determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this chapter;
   (B)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverage while on the sexually
oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   (D)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises;
   (E)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.25  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may revoke a license if a cause of suspension in §
115.24 occurs within 12 months from the license being suspended for any cause.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a license if the Chief of Police
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the Chief of Police during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly operated the sexually
oriented business during a period of time when the licensee's license was
suspended;
      (5)   A licensee is convicted of an offense listed in §
115.21(A)(8);
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
115.21(A)(8), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at the time the
offenses were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises. The term SEXUAL CONTACT shall have the same
meaning as in Tex. Penal Code, § 21.01; or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for hotel occupancy
taxes, ad valorem taxes or sales taxes related to the sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Division (B)(7) of this section does not apply to adult motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly
allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or
sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public view or unless the
licensee or employee knowingly allows the use of the motel for prostitution
purposes.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.26  APPEAL.
   If the Chief of Police denies the issuance of a license, or suspends or
revokes a license, the Chief of Police shall send to the applicant or licensee,
by certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of the action and
the right to an appeal. Upon receipt of written notice of the denial,
suspension or revocation, the licensee whose application for a license has been
denied or whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the right to
appeal to the state district court. An appeal to the state district court must
be filed within 30 days after the receipt of notice of the decision of the
Chief of Police. The licensee shall bear the burden of proof in court.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.27  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer such license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.28  EMPLOYEE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Prior to employment of any person by the sexually oriented business,
the owner or operator of the sexually oriented business shall conduct a
criminal background check on all prospective employees to ensure that no person
employed has any convictions or any time of service in jail or prison for any
of the following offenses:
      (1)   Tex. Penal Code, Ch. 22: Sexual assault or aggravated sexual
assault;
      (2)   Tex. Penal Code, Ch. 25: Incest, solicitation of a child or
harboring a runaway child;
      (3)   Tex. Penal Code, Ch. 43: Prostitution, promotion of prostitution,
aggravated promotion of prostitution, compelling prostitution, obscenity,
display or distribution, sale, distribution or display of harmful material to a
minor, sexual performance by a child, employment harmful to minors, possession
or promotion of child pornography;
      (4)   Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of the
foregoing offenses; or
      (5)   Public lewdness, indecent exposure, public intoxication, drink
solicitation, or possession or sale of a controlled substance.
   (B)   The operator shall maintain a current registration card or file on the
premises clearly identifying all managers, employees and/or entertainment
personnel currently on the premises or employed by the business. The
information contained on the registration card shall include at least:
      (1)   Full legal name;
      (2)   All aliases or "stage names";
      (3)   Date of birth;
      (4)   Race;
      (5)   Color of hair and eyes;
      (6)   Current residence address and phone number;
      (7)   Texas driver's license number (or Texas identification number);
      (8)   Social Security number;
      (9)   Color photograph of full-face view; and
      (10)   Date of criminal background check and a copy of the report.
   (C)    Records.
      (1)   Within five days of employment of an employee, each manager shall
send a copy of the criminal background check (with redacted Social Security
number) and registration card to the Lakeside Police Department.
      (2)   Each manager shall maintain on the premises and make available for
inspection upon request by city enforcement personnel the criminal background
information and current registration card for all current employees.
      (3)   A manager commits an offense if he or she fails to make the
criminal background information or current registration card available for
immediate inspection upon request by city enforcement personnel.
   (D)   An employee or entertainment personnel commits an offense by:
      (1)   Providing false or deceptive information to the operator; or
      (2)   By failing to timely update and provide to the operator within 14
days any changes in the required information.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.29  CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   No employee, while in state of nudity in a sexually oriented business
shall receive directly any pay or gratuity from any patron or customer or allow
any patron or customer to pay or give any gratuity directly to any employee
while that employee is in a state of nudity in a sexually oriented business
other than by means of hand or garter tipping, a tip receptacle or paid as part
of the customer's bill.
   (B)   No manager, owner, or operator shall allow any patron or customer to
pay or give any gratuity directly to any employee while that employee is in a
state of nudity in a sexually oriented business other than by means of hand or
garter tipping, a tip receptacle or paid as part of the customer's bill.
   (C)   All garters shall be located mid-thigh or lower.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.30  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   A sexually oriented business shall not be open to the public or allow
customers or patrons to enter or remain within the premises of a sexually
oriented business during the following hours:
      (1)   Sunday through Thursday:  2:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.
      (2)   Friday and Saturday: 3:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m.; 4:00 a.m. to 10:00
a.m., if the sexually oriented business holds a valid food establishment
permit.
   (B)   Hours of operation may not conflict with any other federal, state or
city laws, rules or regulations.
   (C)   This regulation shall not apply to adult motels.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
§ 115.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating §
115.05, upon conviction, is punishable as a class A misdemeanor; it being
provided however, that the person may be charged with a municipal offense and
be fined an amount not to exceed $500. Each day's continuance of a violation of
such section shall constitute a separate and distinct offense for which the
penalty provided herein may be assessed.
   (B)   Any person violating a provision of this chapter other than §
115.05, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.  Where
applicable, each day's continuance of a violation of any provision shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense for which the penalty provided
herein may be assessed.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
115.05 or §
115.08(D) that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling
class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state, a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
         (b)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class.
   (D)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
115.20(A) or §
115.05 that each and every item of descriptive, printed, film or video material
offered for sale or rental, taken as a whole, contains serious literary,
artistic, political, social or scientific value.
   (E)   Injunction.  A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually
oriented business without a valid license or in violation of any provision of
this chapter may also be subject to a suit for injunction to prohibit such
violations as well as prosecution for criminal violations. In any such suit, a
person who is found to have violated a portion of this chapter and is enjoined
will also be liable for all attorney fees and costs incurred in obtaining the
injunctive relief.
(Ord. 310, passed 3-11-2010)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Miscellaneous Offenses
   
130.01   Possession of weapons on town property
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Fireworks
   
130.04   Sale of obscene matter
   
130.05   Firearms and the like
Curfews
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Curfew offenses
   
130.22   Defenses
   
130.23   Enforcement
   
130.99   Penalty
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
§ 130.01  POSSESSION OF WEAPONS ON TOWN PROPERTY.
   (A)   All persons, including employees of the Town of Lakeside, are
prohibited from possessing a weapon, as hereafter defined, while on any
premise, building, or facility, including parks, owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by the Town of Lakeside.  Premise shall include parking areas,
sidewalks, and walkways that adjoin buildings and facilities owned, leased, or
controlled by the Town of Lakeside.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PERSON.  Any person who has a license to carry a concealed weapon issued
by the State of Texas.
      WEAPON.  A club, explosive weapon, firearm, handgun, illegal knife,
knuckles, machine gun, short-barrel firearm, hoax bomb, chemical dispensing
devise, and zip gun as defined and set out in Tex. Penal Code, Ch. 46, and its
successor statutes.
   (C)   There is excepted from the prohibition contained herein the following:
      (1)   A peace officer as defined by state law;
      (2)   A reserve law enforcement officer as defined by state law while the
officer is on duty; and
      (3)   A commissioned security officer in uniform who is authorized to
carry a firearm and who is then on duty with his or her employer and who is
then acting within the scope and course of his or her employment.
   (D)   There shall be placed at each public entrance to a building or
facility and at entryways into premises owned, leased, or controlled by the
Town of Lakeside a sign that:
      (1)   States in English and Spanish:  “No weapon of any kind shall be
permitted on these premises or in this building.  Pursuant to Section 30.06,
Penal Code (trespass by holder of license to carry a concealed handgun), a
person licensed under Subchapter H, Chapter 411, Government Code (concealed
handgun law), may not enter this property with a concealed handgun.”;
      (2)   Appears in contrasting colors with block letters at least one inch
in height; and
      (3)   Is displayed in a conspicuous manner clearly visible to the public.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions hereof, regardless of whether or not the verbiage
of each section hereof contains the specific language that the violation or
failure to comply is unlawful and is an offense.  Any person who shall violate
any of the provisions of this section or any of the provisions of a license
issued pursuant hereto, or who shall fail to comply with the terms hereof,
shall be guilty of a Class A misdemeanor and shall, on conviction thereof, be
punished with and by the penalties provided by state law for the classification
of offense.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 223, passed 11-9-2000)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in disorderly conduct within the corporate
limits of the Town of Lakeside, Texas, as the term “disorderly conduct” is
defined in Tex. Penal Code, § 42.01, including any future amendment,
codification, or successor statute defining same as may be enacted.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UNREASONABLE.  To the extent that a person of ordinary sensibilities is
caused discomfort or distress beyond ordinary and acceptable levels generally
experienced; and
   (C)   The use of loud speakers or other sound amplifying equipment outside
of a dwelling, residence, place of business, warehouse, or other enclosed space
after 10:30 p.m. Sunday through Thursday and before 7:00 a.m. on the day
following or after 12:00 a.m. Friday and Saturday and before 7:00 a.m. on the
day following shall be deemed to be unreasonable noise and shall constitute
disorderly conduct.  It is provided, however, that the Friday and Saturday
times specified herein shall apply to any day of the week that falls on or one
day before a nationally recognized and observed holiday.
   (D)   This section shall become effective after its passage and adoption and
upon publication as required by law.
(Ord. 164, passed 12-9-1993)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definition shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIREWORKS.  All fireworks as defined in Tex. Occupation Code, § 215.001,
including all amendments, revisions, or codifications thereto or successor
statutes thereto, whether classified as “Class B Fireworks,” “Special
Fireworks,” “Class C Fireworks,” “Common Fireworks,” or “Fireworks.” 
   (B)   Fireworks generally prohibited.  Except as specifically permitted
herein, it shall be unlawful for a person, corporation, or other entity to
manufacture, possess, use, discharge, sell, offer for sale, give away, or
transport any fireworks within the Town of Lakeside.  It shall be unlawful for
any person having custody of or control over any person under the age of 18
years to knowingly allow the minor child to possess, use, or discharge
fireworks within the Town of Lakeside.
   (C)   Regulation of transportation.  It shall be unlawful for any person,
corporation, or other entity to transport fireworks through the Town of
Lakeside unless the fireworks are properly and plainly identified as conforming
to the standards of the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission and as
United States Department of Transportation common fireworks.  The
identification must be imprinted on all cases, parcels, boxes, or other
containers and must be sufficiently conspicuous to be readily recognized by law
enforcement personnel and the general public.
   (D)   Discharge of fireworks by licensed persons; regulation.
      (1)   A person, corporation, or other entity may possess and discharge
Class B fireworks in the Town of Lakeside, but only under the conditions, and
at the times, specified hereinafter; otherwise, use and discharge of same are
prohibited.
      (2)   A person, corporation, or other entity that wishes to conduct a
public display of fireworks in the Town of Lakeside must submit to the Town
Secretary, as least five days in advance of the public display, the following:
         (a)   Proof of a current pyrotechnic operator’s license as issued by
the agency of the State of Texas then examining the qualifications of the
operator;
         (b)   Proof of the issuance of a public display license or permit
identifying the place and date of the display in the Town of Lakeside as issued
by the agency of the State of Texas then examining and evaluating all requests
for public display licenses or permits, including all restrictions and
conditions imposed on the display; and
         (c)   Evidence and proof of the existence of a general policy of
liability insurance in an amount of at least $300,000 (or more if required by
the state agency issuing the license or permit), conditioned to pay those sums
the operator may become obligated to pay as damages for property damage or
bodily injury caused by an occurrence involving the public firework display.
      (3)   When satisfactory proof of the licenses or permit and the existence
of insurance has been given, the Town Secretary shall maintain a copy of all
the documentation, and issue a receipt acknowledging compliance with these
regulations.  The receipt shall be posted at the site of the public firework
display along with copies of the licenses or permits.
   (E)   Effective date.  The provisions of this section pertaining to an
authorized public display of fireworks shall be effective from and after the
date of its passage.  All other provisions and penalties of this section shall
be effective from and after publication as required by law.
(Ord. 161, passed 10-13-1993)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04  SALE OF OBSCENE MATTER.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMMUNITY.  The area within the limits of the Town of Lakeside.
      MATERIAL.  Anything tangible that is capable of being used or adapted to
arouse interest, whether through the medium of reading, observation, sound, or
in any other manner, but does not include an actual three dimensional obscene
device.
      OBSCENE.  Material or a performance that:
         (a)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find that, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in sex;
         (b)   Depicts or describes:
            1.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of ultimate
sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, heterosexual or
homosexual, including sexual intercourse, sodomy, and sexual bestiality; or
            2.   Patently offensive representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions, sadism, masochism, lewd exhibitions of
genitals, the male or female genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal, covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state or a device
designed and marketed as useful primarily for stimulation of the human genital
organs.
         (c)   Taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
and scientific value.
      OBSCENE DEVICE.  A device, including a dildo or artificial vagina,
designed or marketed as useful primarily for the stimulation of human genital
organs.
      PATENTLY OFFENSIVE.  So offensive on its face as to affront current
community standards of decency.
      PERFORMANCE.  A play, motion picture, dance, or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   (B)   Proscribed acts.  A person commits an offense if, knowingly:
      (1)   He or she sells or possesses for sale any obscene material;
      (2)   He or she sells or possesses for sale any obscene device; and/or
      (3)   He or she presents commercially an obscene performance or
participates in that portion of the performance that makes it obscene.
   (C)   Minors.  A person commits an offense if, in a business establishment
open to persons under the age of 17 years, he or she displays a book, pamphlet,
newspaper, or magazine which depicts:
      (1)   Human sexual intercourse, masturbation, or sodomy;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (3)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, buttocks,
or that portion of the female breast under the top of the areola; or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, whether covered
or uncovered, in a manner calculated to arouse sexual lust or passion for
commercial gain or to exploit sexual or perversion for commercial gain.
   (D)   Affirmative defense.  It is not innocent but calculated purveyance
which is prohibited.  This section shall not apply to persons who may possess
or distribute obscene matter or participate in conduct otherwise proscribed by
this section when the possession, distribution, or conduct occurs in the course
of law enforcement activities or in the course of bona fide scientific,
educational, or comparable research or study or like circumstances of
justification.
   (E)   Injunction.  The Town Attorney is authorized to bring suit for
injunction against any establishment which purveys obscene material or obscene
devices or displays sexually explicit material to minors and this shall be in
addition to the criminal sanctions imposed by this section.
   (F)   Publication.  The Town Secretary is hereby authorized to cause
publication of this descriptive caption and penalty clause of this section as
an alternative method of publication provided by law.
   (G)   Effective date.  This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after the date of its passage and publication as above specified.
(Ord. 107, passed 8-7-1984)
§ 130.05  FIREARMS AND THE LIKE.
   Any person who discharges, except for purposes of protection of life and
safety, any gun, pistol, shotgun, or compressed air pellets gun, or any gas-
operated air rifles or pistols, within the town limits of Lakeside, Texas,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-3-1960)  Penalty, see §
130.99
CURFEWS
§ 130.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (A)   11:00 p.m, on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday
until 6:00 a.m. on the following day; and
      (B)   12:01 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Friday, Saturday or Sunday.
   EMERGENCY.  An unforeseen combination of circumstances that calls for
immediate action in order to protect persons or property. This term includes,
but is not limited to, fire, natural disaster, automobile accident, or any
other situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury,
loss of life or serious damage to property.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any privately-owned or operated place of business to which
the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement or
entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (A)   Any person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of
a minor; or
      (B)   A public or private agency with whom the minor has been placed by
court order.
   MINOR.  Any person under 17 years of age.
   OPERATOR.  Any individual firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes, but is
not limited to, the members or partners of an association or partnership and
the officers of a corporation as well as any manager on site at the
establishment.
   PARENT.  A person who is:
      (A)   A natural parent, an adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
      (B)   Any other person who is lawfully authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care, control and custody of a minor.
   REMAIN.  To:
      (A)   Linger or stay; or
      (B)   Fail to leave the premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, manager, or other person in control of the
premises.
(Ord. 194, passed 6-11-1998; Ord. 267, passed 4-14-2005; Ord. 286, passed 3-13-
2008; Ord. 321, passed 3-10-2011; Ord. 367, passed 2-13-2014; Ord. 395, passed
4-13-2017)
§ 130.21  CURFEW OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor commits an offense if he or she remains or is present in any
public place, including public rights-of-way, streets or highways, or on the
premises of any establishment within the town during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she
knowingly permits or allows a minor to remain or be present in any public place
or on the premises of any establishment within the town during curfew hours.
   (C)   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he or she does
not make reasonable inquiry concerning the whereabouts of a minor during curfew
hours and does not take reasonable action to ensure that a minor is not in a
public place or in an establishment during curfew hours.
   (D)   The operator or any employee of an establishment commits an offense if
he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the establishment
dining curfew hours.
(Ord. 194, passed 6-11-1998; Ord. 267, passed 4-14-2005; Ord. 321, passed 3-10-
2011; Ord. 367, passed 2-13-2014; Ord. 395, passed 4-13-2017)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.22  DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
130.21 that the minor was:
      (1)   Accompanied by and in the presence of the minor’s parent or
guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of a minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop, but only if the parent or guardian was physically
unable to go on the errand;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in lawful employment activity at the direction of an
employer, going to or returning to an employer’s place of business during his
or her regularly scheduled employment hours or going to or returning to a
parent’s or guardian’s home from any employment activity, without any detour or
stop;
      (5)   Directly involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the property constituting the residence of the parent or
guardian of the minor or abutting the residence of a next door neighbor if the
neighbor did not complain to the Town of Lakeside Police Department about the
minor’s presence (this does not include common areas or parking lots of
apartments, town homes or condominiums);
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity scheduled, supervised and attended by persons over the age of 21 years
and sponsored by the town or other public organization, a civic organization,
or other similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to or
returning home from, without detour or stop, such activity;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly, but only after delivery, before exercising such rights after
curfew, of written notice signed by the minor and a parent or guardian to the
Town of Lakeside Police Department specifying when, where and in what manner
said minor will be exercising a First Amendment right specified in the
communication after curfew hours.
      (9)   Married or had disabilities of a minor removed in accordance with
the Tex. Family Code, Ch. 31, or any amendment or modification thereof.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
130.21(D) that the operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified
the Town of Lakeside Police Department that a minor was present on the premises
of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
(Ord. 194, passed 6-11-1998; Ord. 267, passed 4-14-2005; Ord. 321, passed 3-10-
2011; Ord. 367, passed 2-13-2014; Ord. 395, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 130.23  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Before taking any enforcement action under this subchapter, a police
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in a public
place or establishment during curfew hours. The officer shall not issue a
citation or make an arrest under this subchapter unless the officer reasonably
believes that an offense has occurred and that no defense is present.
   (B)   Before taking any enforcement action against a parent or guardian
under this subchapter, a police officer shall ask the apparent offender for the
telephone number of or other means of making contact with the parent or
guardian of the minor. The police officer may maintain the minor in his or her
control until contact is made with the minor’s parent or guardian. The officer
shall not issue a citation to or make in arrest of the minor’s parent or
guardian unless the officer reasonably believes that the parent or guardian has
committed an offense and that no defense exists based upon any contact with the
parent or guardian and other circumstances then existing.
   (C)   Any juvenile who is taken into custody for violation of this
subchapter shall be treated and held under and according to the requirements of
the Tex. Family Code, § 52.028 as it presently reads or as hereafter amended or
modified.
(Ord. 194, passed 6-11-1998; Ord. 267, passed 4-14-2005; Ord. 321, passed 3-10-
2011; Ord. 367, passed 2-13-2014; Ord. 395, passed 4-13-2017)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person (which shall include corporations, partnerships,
associations, and any other entity) violating any provision of §
130.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowed by State of Texas law.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, corporation, or other entity that violates any
provision of §
130.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine as set by state
law for each separate incident or violation.
      (2)   A police officer of the Town of Lakeside may seize illegal
fireworks as defined in §
130.03, and same shall be kept in the custody of the Town of Lakeside.  The
owner of the seized fireworks may file an action contesting the seizure in a
District Court of Tarrant County, Texas, and give written notice of the contest
to the Town of Lakeside no later than 30 days from the date of seizure.  If the
contest and notice is filed, the Town of Lakeside shall keep and maintain the
fireworks subject to further orders of the Court.  If the contestant is
unsuccessful, it shall be obligated to pay to the Town of Lakeside all storage
fees and attorney fees incurred by the Town of Lakeside in connection with the
contest.
      (3)   If no contest and notice is filed and given as provided herein, the
Town of Lakeside shall destroy the fireworks in a safe manner.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
130.04 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon final conviction
thereof, fined in an amount not to exceed the maximum allowed by State of Texas
law.
   (D)   Any person violating §
130.05, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount set by state law.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions of §§
130.20 through
130.23, irrespective of whether or not the verbiage contains the specific
language that the violation or failure to comply is unlawful and is an
offense.  Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
130.20 through
130.23 or any of the provisions of a permit issued pursuant hereto, or who
shall fail to comply with the terms hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in the sum not to exceed the maximum
allowed by State of Texas law, and the violation of each separate provision
thereof shall be considered a separate offense.  Each day’s continuance of a
failure to comply therewith shall constitute a separate and distinct offense
for each of those days.
(Ord. 15, passed 2-3-1960; Ord. 107, passed 8-7-1984; Ord. 161, passed 10-13-
1993; Ord. 164, passed 12-9-1993; Ord. 194, passed 6-11-1998; Ord. 267, passed
4-14-2005; Ord. 286, passed 3-13-2008; Ord. 321, passed 3-10-2011; Ord. 367,
passed 2-13-2014; Ord. 395, passed 4-13-2017)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   ZONING CODE
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
154.   GAS DRILLING AND PRODUCTION
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Water wells
   
150.02   Construction and fees
   
150.03   Address numbering
   
150.04   Use of wood or wood shingles for roofing
   
150.05   Smoke detectors
   
150.06   Drainage facilities
Adopted Codes
   
150.20   Generally
   
150.21   2000 International Residential Code
   
150.22   2000 International Energy Conservation Code
Dilapidated Buildings
   
150.35   Definition
   
150.36   Standards for repair, vacation, or demolition
   
150.37   Nuisances
   
150.38   Duties of Building Inspector
   
150.39   Appeal from order of Building Inspector
   
150.40   Failure to comply
   
150.41   Demolishing of structure
   
150.42   Costs of demolition
   
150.43   Discontinuation
   
150.44   Change in feeholder
   
150.45   Duties of Fire Department
   
150.46   Duties of Police Department
Substandard Buildings
   
150.50   Purpose
   
150.51   Substandard buildings defined; Building Official defined
   
150.52   Notices and orders of Building Official
   
150.53   Violations
   
150.54   Public hearing; order by Council
   
150.55   Performance of work by town; recovery of town’s costs
   
150.56   Notice of lien
   
150.57   Restrictions on property where lien is in effect
Movement of Buildings
   
150.60   Movement permit
   
150.61   Compliance with building codes prior to issuance of permit
   
150.62   Consent of utility companies required prior to issuance of permit
   
150.63   Refusal of permit under certain conditions
   
150.64   Conditions and route of movement must be set out in permit
   
150.65   Fees; may be waived in emergency
   
150.66   Bond
   
150.67   Movement to be continuous; parking; lighting of building
   
150.68   Report on reaching destination; inspection and repair of streets
   
150.69   Night position report required
   
150.70   Move to be conducted carefully; revocation of permit
   
150.71   Evidence of rehabilitation
   
150.72   Effective date
Swimming Pools
   
150.80   Purpose
   
150.81   Private residential swimming pools
   
150.82   Public and semi-public swimming pools
   
150.83   Fees and enforcement
Home Occupations
   
150.90   Purpose
   
150.91   Special provisions for home occupations
   
150.92   Applicability of other regulations
   
150.93   Uses allowed as home occupations
   
150.94   Use prohibited as home occupations
   
150.95   Home occupation uses not classified
   
150.96   Effect on existing home occupations
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  WATER WELLS.
   (A)   (1)   Statement of purpose.  It is the purpose of this section to
promote the public health, safety, and general welfare, to minimize public and
private endangerment and risk due to contamination of the public water supply,
to maximize groundwater protection and pollution abatement control procedures,
to provide for land use restriction, and to ensure that the public is provided
with a safe potable water supply now and for future generations.
      (2)   Scope.  The provisions of this section shall apply to all property
and wells located within the Town of Lakeside town limits, in the
extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) of the town, to any property which is tied
on to and uses the water supply system of the Town of Lakeside, any property
that is located within the boundary or area description of a certificate of
convenience and necessity issued by any state authority (whether solely in the
town’s name or shared with any other municipality or water supply system), and
to any other property or wells outside of the town limits to which state law
allows the imposition of controls or the abatement of nuisance or threat to the
health and welfare of the citizens of Lakeside and the public utility systems
of Lakeside.
      (3)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ABANDONED WELL.  Any well that has been continuously out of use for a
period of six consecutive months.  A well is considered to be in use if it is a
nondeteriorated well which contains the casing, pump, and pump column in good
condition or a nondeteriorated well which has been capped.
         ANTHROPOGENIC.  Produced as a result of human activities.
         CLOSURE LETTER.  A letter issued by the State Environmental Regulatory
Authority which states that, based on the information available, the State
Environmental Regulatory Authority agrees that corrective action has been
completed for the referenced release in accordance with the Authority’s
requirements.
         CONTAMINATION.  The admission or release to the environment,
including, but not limited to, the water supply or water system, of any
hazardous, toxic or injurious substance, material or waste (be it organic,
inorganic, radiological, or biological) that threatens or has potential to
threaten public health, safety, or welfare.
         DIRECTOR.  The Town Administrator of the Town of Lakeside or his or
her designee who is hereby vested with the authority, power, and responsibility
for the implementation of an effective wellhead protection program, seeing that
inspections are made, overseeing the permit application process and referrals
to professionals or consultants as is deemed necessary, and for the enforcement
of the provisions of this section.
         DOMESTIC WELL.  Any well used for domestic uses, including, but not
limited to, drinking water, cooking, household washing, or other similar use. 
The description of uses listed herein is for example only and is not intended
to limit the definition.
         HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any matter which is or may be reasonably
expected to be dangerous to human health, the environment, or property, and
shall include, but not be limited to, those substances defined as hazardous
waste or material by federal or state agencies.
         INDUSTRIAL WELL.  Any well used for commercial or industrial purposes,
including, but not limited to, make-up water or production water.
         MONITORING WELL.  Any well used for the purposes of monitoring
groundwater and for investigative purposes, including, but not limited to,
determining whether pollution is present.
         OBSERVATION WELL.  A monitoring well or other vertical tubular
structure which is constructed, installed, or placed within any portion of an
underground storage tank excavation zone, and which is designed or used for the
observation or monitoring of groundwater, or for the observation, monitoring,
recovery, or withdrawal of either released regulated substances or groundwater
contaminated by the released regulated substances.
         PERSON.  Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
or any other entity, public or private.
         POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.  Any water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic use.
         PREMISES.  Any piece of property, including improvements, mobile
structures, and structures located on it.
         REGULATED MATERIALS.  Any material regulated by the state and/or
federal regulatory agencies, including, but not limited to, oils, petroleum
products, and vehicle fluids.
         REGULATORY AUTHORITY.  The City Council of the Town of Lakeside.
         STATE ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATORY AUTHORITY.  Any and all state agencies
that have the authority to adopt and enforce any environmental rules necessary
to carry out its powers and duties under the laws of Texas.
         WELL.  Any opening in the ground utilized for the purpose of
extracting or producing water, monitoring ground water, and/or for temporary
purposes.
         WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA (WHPA).  The surface and subsurface area
surrounding any water well or well field through which contaminants could
likely pass and eventually reach the ground water supply as determined by the
State Environmental Regulatory Authority as issued and published in state
regulations and administrative codes.  At a minimum, the WHPA is defined as the
area within the boundaries of the property on which a well is located.  The
properties surrounding the property on which the well is located may be a part
of the WHPA regardless of whether it is owned by the same property owner.
   (B)   (1)   Methods of reducing potential contamination.  In order to
accomplish the purposes of this section, the town may employ the following
methods:
         (a)   Establish a wellhead protection area (WHPA) based on a five-year
time of travel;
         (b)   Restrict uses within the WHPA that pose risks of contamination
to the water supply;
         (c)   Control anthropogenic activities within the WHPA that may
increase the threat of potential contamination of the public water supply;
         (d)   Monitor existing and future anthropogenic activities within the
WHPA that have been identified as potential sources of contamination;
         (e)   Enforce all applicable laws governing pollution abatement and
control, storage and transportation of hazardous, regulated, or toxic
materials, and collection, storage, transportation, and treatment of municipal
or industrial sewage;
         (f)   Inventory potential sources of contamination within designated
WHPA as necessary;
         (g)   Regulate the construction, operation, correction, and
abandonment of water wells; and
         (h)   Public education.
      (2)   Powers and duties of Regulatory Authority.  The Regulatory
Authority and its Director, agents, and employees shall have the following
powers:
         (a)   To make or have made examinations of all wells within the town
and all wells outside the town limits, privately-owned or otherwise, which by
law are under the jurisdiction of the town;
         (b)   To enter property of the owner of a well and/or to make or have
made at any time the necessary analyses for tests of water;
         (c)   To require the owner to furnish all information requested
concerning a well, including, in the case of new wells, complete logs of the
well showing depth to the aquifer through all geologic formations encountered;
         (d)   To observe the construction, operation, repair, abandonment, and
plugging of wells;
         (e)   To keep a register of all known wells within the incorporated
area of the town, its ETJ and all other areas over which the town may have
control or authority to take action with respect to wells; and
         (f)   To inspect underground storage tanks and storage of any
regulated or unregulated materials.
   (C)   (1)   Permit; required for work on wells.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drill or otherwise
construct, repair, re-work, correct, extend the depth, abandon or plug a well,
or to engage upon the work, within the limits of the area defined in this
section, or to employ anyone else to engage in the work, without first applying
for and securing a permit from the Director.  The permit may be granted to any
person who files the application hereinafter provided for, pays the fees
hereinafter required, and complies with all other provisions of this section. 
It is provided, however, that no permit shall be necessary if a repair consists
only of routine electrical maintenance or other minor work that does not pose a
risk or possibility of exposing the well to contamination from the surface
during repair.
         (b)   The construction or repair or use of wells is prohibited in
areas where groundwater contamination is known to be present.  Monitoring wells
may be constructed with prior consent from the Director.
         (c)   Under limited circumstances as provided hereinafter, certain
existing water wells may be repaired or replaced and may be used to obtain
water for domestic, household, and human use.  However, it is the general
policy of the town that no well may be used to obtain water for domestic,
household, or human use and same is prohibited.
         (d)   No well may be connected, either directly to or otherwise, so
that water from the well will mingle with or be introduced into the public
water supply.
         (e)   A water well presently in existence that is being used to
provide water for domestic, household, and human use may be repaired, re-
worked, or replaced, if the town is unable or unwilling to extend the public
water supply to the location where the well connects to a line that provides
the water to the habitation or structure, within two working days from the time
a request for the connection is made.  The requirements contained in this
section pertaining to clearances shall not apply to the well or its replacement
so long as the replacement well is no more than 20 feet from the bore of the
original well.  The new well must meet all requirements as to drilling,
completion, and casing contained in this section.  In no event, however, may
any replacement well be drilled where ground water contamination is known to
exist.
      (2)   Permit and application requirements.  Every application for a
permit for the drilling, construction, repair, correction, re-work,
abandonment, or plugging of a well shall:
         (a)   State the name and address of the owner of the property and
occupant, if different from the owner, the purpose for which the permit is
desired, which shall be one or more of the acts mentioned above;
         (b)   Contain a scale drawing, showing:
            1.   The property boundaries;
            2.   The location and dimension of buildings and structures located
on the property;
            3.   The exact location of the well;
            4.   The location of any drainage or utility easements located on
the property;
            5.   The portion of the property that may be located in the 100-
and 500-year flood plain; and
            6.   All clearances from the well location as required in this
section.
         (c)   Provide its approximate depth and the aquifer to be reached;
         (d)   Indicate the estimated amount of water to be pumped daily,
monthly, or annually;
         (e)   Indicate the use or uses for which the water will be used;
         (f)   If for a permit for the drilling or construction or for the
repair, re-work, or correction of a well, state the proposed method of drilling
or construction, or the proposed method of repair and correction, the kind of
equipment to be used, and the diameter of the well;
         (g)   Indicate the name of the contractor(s) and the license number
issued by the Texas Department of Licensing and Regulation (or its successor
department or agency) to water well drillers, which license shall be required
as a condition to the issuance of a permit;
         (h)   Provide the location and a description of all storage tanks, the
irrigation system connection point or other line(s) or structure(s) to which
the well will be connected after completion thereof;
         (i)   Provide a copy of any application and report filed with any
agency of the state pertaining to the well and any reports, drawings, and other
information previously filed with the Tarrant County authorities concerning any
septic system located on the property; and
         (j)   Provide any other data and/or reports as may be requested.
      (3)   Clearances to potential contaminants and town wells.
         (a)   In addition to rules established for drilling of an individual
well as provided by the State of Texas in any rule, regulation, or statute, the
proposed well shall maintain minimum distances as follows:
            1.   To any property line of the property on which the well is to
be located, 50 feet;
            2.   To any septic system components or wastewater treatment system
components, including septic tanks, regardless of where located, 50 feet;
            3.   To any lateral fields regardless of where located, 100 feet;
            4.   To any septic system spray area regardless of where located,
100 feet;
            5.   No well site shall be located within 500 feet of a sewage
treatment plant or within 300 feet of a sewage wet well, sewage pumping
station, or a drainage ditch that contains industrial waste discharges or the
wastes from sewage treatment systems;
            6.   No water well shall be located within 500 feet of animal feed
lots, solid waste disposal sites, lands on which sewage plant or septic tank
sludge is applied, or lands irrigated by sewage plant effluent; and
            7.   To any proposed or existing town public water supply well
site, 1,000 feet.
         (b)   Livestock shall not be allowed within 50 feet of a water well
site during drilling or at any time after completion of a well.  The Regulatory
Authority may require a fence to keep livestock away, either as part of the
permit, itself, or at any time after completion of the well.
         (c)   It is provided, however, that the clearances required above may
be modified and a permit granted if the owner provides proof from professional
engineers that is satisfactory to the Regulatory Authority that a required
clearance is not necessary in a particular instance.  The determination by the
Regulatory Authority of whether to allow a modification or variance from the
clearance requirements is and shall be wholly within the discretion of the
Regulatory Authority.
      (4)   Fees.  The fees to be paid the town shall be as follows:
         (a)   Fifty dollars for the filing of an application for a permit. 
The application fee shall cover the entire process of review until a permit is
issued or rejected by the Director.  If a permit has been refused or if a
permit has been issued and then has expired as provided hereinbelow, then a new
application fee shall be paid for any subsequent application or request for a
permit on the same property;
         (b)   One hundred dollars for the issuance of a permit;
         (c)   A fee of $10 for a permit to plug a well.  No application fee
shall be necessary for a request to plug a well; and
         (d)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever application is made for
the drilling, repair, or plugging of more than one monitoring well, only one
application fee and only one permit fee needs to be paid.
      (5)   Inspection and issuance of permit.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of the Director, or his or her designated
agent or representative, to inspect the property where any well is to be
drilled, sunk, dug, bored, repaired, corrected, or re-worked or plugged to
determine if the location or work to be performed meets all requirements of
this section or other law, or if same does not meet state or town requirements
as to drainage and other sanitary conditions.  The Director may employ agents,
professionals, and consultants to provide inspection and review of application
services.
         (b)   It is provided that the Director, or his or her designee in the
event of his or her absence, may authorize the issuance of a permit to perform
repairs on a well without the immediate payment of fees in the event an
existing well that is being used for domestic, household, and human consumption
fails for any reason.  The well owner or user shall provide the information as
may be requested by the Director to satisfy him or her that an emergency
situation exists and immediate work must be started.  Permit fees are payable
and the information required for the issuance of a permit, as provided herein,
shall be provided within two weeks from the time a permit is issued.
      (6)   Duration of permit.  A permit issued pursuant to this section shall
be in effect for a period of three months.  If no significant work has been
started on the permitted well, the permit shall lapse and be of no force or
effect.  The Director shall determine, in good faith, whether significant work
has been started and declare that a permit has lapsed if he or she so finds. 
The Director’s determination may be appealed to the Regulatory Authority by
filing a written appeal, within seven days after the Director has declared the
permit to have lapsed and informed the permit holder of the lapse.  If a permit
lapses as provided herein, an applicant must file a new application for permit
as provided in this section.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Director may
extend the duration of a permit for up to, but no more than three months, upon
presentation to him or her of information satisfactory to him or her, showing
that no work has been started, or work has ceased, through no fault of the
owner of the well, including casualty or unavailability of a qualified driller
(but not because of a dispute between the driller and owner).
      (7)   Construction standards.
         (a)   Every well constructed must meet all applicable federal, state,
and local regulations.  Every contractor shall provide the Director with proof
of proper licensing before any drilling or site work is done.  The permit
issued pursuant to this section must be displayed on site at all times.
         (b)   Regardless of depth, every well must be cemented with positive
displacement technique, or tremie pressured filled as described by state
regulatory and administrative rules.  Another form of treatment of casing may
be used if same is the equivalent of the type of treatment specified herein,
the alternative treatment of the casing is described in the application for
permit, and the permit specifically states that the alternative means of casing
treatment has been approved.
         (c)   No well may have casing that exceeds eight inches in diameter.
         (d)   The premises, materials, tools, and drilling equipment shall be
maintained so as to minimize contamination of the groundwater during drilling
operation.
         (e)   Water used in any drilling operation shall be of safe sanitary
quality.  Water used in the mixing of drilling fluids or mud shall contain a
chlorine residual of at least one-half milligram per liter (mg/l).
         (f)   The slush pit shall be constructed and maintained so as to
minimize contamination of the drilling mud.
         (g)   Casing and construction of wells shall be as required by Tex.
Administrative Code, Title 16, Ch. 76, and any successor regulations, except
where this section requires stricter standards.
         (h)   All observation wells that are regulated as monitoring wells by
the state environmental regulatory agency shall be constructed and installed in
compliance with all applicable state requirements.
      (8)   Completion report and certificate.  Upon completion of the
drilling, rework, repair, plugging, or other work, or upon termination of work
for whatever reason whatsoever, on a well for which a permit is issued, the
owner shall submit to the town a copy of each and every report required to be
filed with a state agency, including plugging information and reports.  Before
the well can be connected or water from the well used in any way, the Director
shall conduct a final inspection of the well.  If the well is found to conform
to all requirements, the Director shall issue a certificate of completion.  If
nonconforming, the Director shall issue an inspection report, detailing the
items that are in need of correction before a completion certificate is
issued.  The Director shall make a final inspection within three business days
after the completion documentation is filed.
      (9)   Sign required.  The owner of a property served by a well shall post
and maintain a sign on the property, visible from a public street, that
provides notice that the property is served by a private water well.
   (D)   (1)   Wells contaminating other water sources; nuisance abatement.
         (a)   A well shall be considered a nuisance under the following
conditions:
            1.   A well that is polluting or reaches the potential to
contaminate any other wells or the town’s municipal wells;
            2.   A well that, in the opinion of the Director or any consultant
or advisor to the Director, presents a threat to the health, safety, or general
welfare of the public, the water supply of the public, or a private well and/or
environment;
            3.   A well that is abandoned;
            4.   A well area where restricted activities (as provided herein)
around the WHPA are taking place; and
            5.   A well that either is or presents the threat of commingling
its water with the public water supply, or that is being used for household and
domestic purposes;
         (b)   Upon notice to the owner of the well, or to the operator
thereof, or to the agent in charge of the well or of the property on which it
is situated, issued by the Director or the Regulatory Authority, the nuisance
shall be abated by the owner within the time provided in the notice, which
shall be not less than ten days from the date of the notice, including, if
necessary, filling and plugging the well in the manner provided for in this
section and by state law for abandoned wells.  If a person shall fail to abate
the nuisance within the permitted time, the town shall have the right to enter
the property upon which the well is situated and abate the nuisance.
         (c)   If, in the opinion of the Director, the nuisance is of such a
severity that it poses an immediate and substantial danger to the health and
welfare of the public, including the pollution or contamination of the public
water supply or another private well, and the owner or operator cannot act in a
timely and immediate manner to abate the danger after being informed of the
problem by the town, the town or its agents shall have the right to enter any
property upon which the well is situated and abate the nuisance in the manner
as to at least temporarily terminate the immediate danger.  Thereafter, the
owner shall be contacted as provided herein to provide a permanent abatement of
the problem.
         (d)   The town or its agents shall have the right to enter any
property and take immediate action to abate any threats to human health or the
environment.
         (e)   Any time the town, or its agent, abates a nuisance and/or fills
and plugs an abandoned well, the owner of the premise shall be responsible for
any costs associated with the activities.  The person shall also be responsible
for reimbursing the town for any costs/damages incurred by the town.  These
costs/damages may include, but are not limited to, manpower, administrative
fees, equipment, supplies, analytical costs, consultants, private contractors,
and street/utility repairs.  Whenever it becomes necessary for the town to fill
and plug any abandoned well, the owner thereof shall be liable to the town for
the cost of doing the work and a 25% administrative fee, and shall pay the cost
upon demand.
         (f)   Every abandoned well shall be filled and plugged with the
materials and in a manner approved by the regulatory agencies of the State of
Texas that will, in the judgment of the Director and the Regulatory Authority,
prevent the pollution and contamination of the town’s water supply or the
contamination of any other well.  The filling and plugging shall be done under
the supervision of the Director and at the expense of the owner of the well. 
The owner of the property and the person or entity plugging a well shall
deliver to the town a copy of all well plugging reports required to be filed
with any state regulatory agency.
      (2)   Activities to be restricted within the wellhead protection area
(WHPA).  The following is prohibited in the WHPA:
         (a)   The unauthorized disposal, placement, abandonment, or otherwise
discharge (hereafter referred to as dumping) of any material in a manner
inconsistent with established federal, state, or local ordinance, statute, or
regulation.  Examples of dumping include, but are not limited to, chemical
waste, paint, mineral spirits, garbage, trash, tires, sludge, automobile waste,
radioactive materials, and/or sewage/effluent;
         (b)   The storage of regulated materials in an underground storage
tank, unless it has met all federal, state, and local requirements; and
         (c)   The storage of regulated materials outside of a building/
containment structure that is not protected by secondary containment that can
contain at least 500 gallons.
      (3)   Right of entry; inspection and monitoring.
         (a)   The Director and his or her representative(s) shall have the
right to enter the premises of any person to determine whether that person is
in compliance with all requirements of this section.  Persons shall allow
inspecting or monitoring personnel ready access to all parts of the premises
for the purposes of inspection, monitoring, records examination and copying,
and the performance of any additional duties.  Any information concerning a
requirement under this section, including, but not limited to, water testing
data, construction records, state registrations, environmental and closure
records, shall be made readily available upon request.
         (b)   Where security measures are in force that require proper
identification and clearance or the penning of animals before entry into the
premises, that person shall make necessary arrangements so the town’s
representative will be permitted to enter without delay for the purposes of
performing specific responsibilities.
         (c)   The town’s representatives shall have the right to set up on any
person’s property the devices as are necessary to conduct monitoring of any
person’s operations.
         (d)   Unreasonable delays in allowing inspection or monitoring
personnel access to any person’s premises shall be a violation of this section.
   (E)   The Town Secretary is hereby directed to publish in the official
newspaper of the town, the caption, penalty provisions, and effective date
clause of this section.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and publication as required by law, and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 272, passed 12-15-2005; Ord. 273, passed 2-9-2006; Ord. 377, passed 10-9-
2014)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02  CONSTRUCTION AND FEES.
   (A)   Attached to this code as an addendum are various forms and fee
schedules to be used and charged by the town.
   (B)   No permit for a construction project of any kind or nature shall be
issued until the fees prescribed and adopted herein have been paid, nor shall
an amendment to the permit be issued until any additional fees are paid, if any
are due.
   (C)   The applicant for a permit shall provide an estimated construction or
project value at the time of application.  Permit valuations shall include the
total value of work, including materials and labor, for which the permit is
being issued.  If, in the opinion of town officials, including building
officials employed to assist the town in determining value and inspecting a
project, the estimation is underestimated on the application, the permit shall
be denied, unless the applicant can show detailed estimates and bids that meet
the approval of the Building Official.  Final building or project valuation
shall be set by the Building Official.
   (D)   If it is determined by future City Councils that new or modified fees
should be charged for all or any portion of work as provided herein, then the
terms of this section as to the amount of fees or the method of determining
fees may be modified or repealed by resolution of a City Council rather than by
ordinance, as each future City Council may desire.
(Ord. 268, passed 6-9-2005)
§ 150.03  ADDRESS NUMBERING.
   (A)   The street number address of each structure facing a street within the
town shall be posted on a mailbox, curb, or the structure itself and in such a
manner that same will be visible from the street which the structure fronts.
   (B)   If posted on a mailbox or curb, the numbers shall be a minimum of two
inches in height and shall be of a light-reflective material.
   (C)   If posted on the structure, the numbers shall be at least four inches
of height and either be of a light reflecting material or a color that
contrasts with the portion of the structure on which the numbers are located. 
The numbers shall not be allowed to be obscured or covered by any vegetative
growth or other matter and shall be placed at least four feet above ground
level, but no more than seven feet above ground level.
   (D)   If any owner or occupant of a structure fails or refuses to post a
street address number after being given notice to do so by any employee of the
town, the town may post the number on a curbside if one exists.  All cost for
posting same shall be billed to and paid by the owner or occupant.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law, and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 199, passed 11-12-1998)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04  USE OF WOOD OR WOOD SHINGLES FOR ROOFING.
   (A)   The use of wood shingles, whether specially treated by chemicals or
not, and the use of wood that is not covered by fire-resistant material for
roofing purposes, on any structure, is hereby prohibited.  No building permit
is to be issued for any structure that will have a roof of wood shingles or
wood that is not covered by a fire-resistant material.
   (B)   Any structure in existence at the time of passage of this section that
has a roof composed of wood shingles or wood that is not covered by fire-
resistant material may continue to have its roof in its present condition
without violating this section.  At any time that more than 50% of the existing
roof surface of the existing structure is to be repaired or replaced, then the
entire roof surface shall be replaced by roofing material that is not in
violation of this section or any other fire code then in existence.
   (C)   The Town of Lakeside shall issue a notice to any owner, contractor, or
subcontractor who is violating this section to immediately cease construction
or repair work and shall revoke any building permit issued.  If the work is not
stopped after receipt of the notice by the owner, contractor, or subcontractor,
then the Town of Lakeside may seek injunctive relief from an appropriate court
and recover all attorney fees and court costs incurred by it from any person
who has received the notice.  The giving of a cease and desist notice shall not
be a prerequisite for the imposition of the penalties hereafter specified.
   (D)   The Town Secretary is hereby directed to publish this section as
required by law.
   (E)   This section shall take effect and be in full force from and after the
date of its passage and publication as required by law.
(Ord. 178, passed 11-9-1995)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.05  SMOKE DETECTORS.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit within an apartment house, every guestroom in a
hotel used for sleeping purposes, and every rented dwelling unit or any other
residential property shall after the effective date of this section be provided
with smoke detectors conforming to the Uniform Building Code.
   (B)   Smoke detectors shall be required in every dwelling unit in any type
of residential property before any certificate of occupancy is granted or
renewed.  No building permit or alteration shall, in any event, be granted
without the installation of smoke detectors.
   (C)   The number of smoke detectors and the manner and location of
installation shall be set forth in the Uniform Building Code.
   (D)   Smoke detectors shall be maintained in operating condition at all
times.  Rental property shall be inspected at least annually for compliance
herewith.  If any authorized person is refused access to any rental dwelling
unit upon reasonable notice, the certificate of occupancy for the unit shall be
cancelled.  If the smoke detector required for a rental unit is inoperable, the
premise shall be reinspected within 15 days and if the detector is at that time
inoperable, the certificate of occupancy shall be cancelled.
   (E)   The Town Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to cause
publication of the descriptive caption and penalty clause of this section as an
alternative method of publication as provided by law.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the date
of its passage and publication as above specified.
(Ord. 104, passed 3-6-1984)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.06  DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to place or cause to be placed anything into the
street drainage bar ditches, or drainage pipes, or drainage tiles, or under
bridges which may directly or indirectly completely or partially constrict or
otherwise reduce the drainage capacity of these facilities.
   (B)   The owner of property which has private roads, driveways, sidewalks,
or other means of passage from the public street to the private property which
incorporates a tile, or pipe in or a bridge over the street bar ditch shall be
responsible for the maintenance and cleaning of these pipes, tiles, and/or
bridges.  This maintenance and cleaning will assure availability of total
drainage capacity of these facilities.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the date
of its passage and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 22, passed 5-2-1961)  Penalty, see §
150.99
ADOPTED CODES
§ 150.20  GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Town of Lakeside here adopts the following codes of the
International Conference of Building Officials:  the 2000 Uniform Building
Code; the 2000 Plumbing Code; the 2000 Uniform Mechanical Code; the 2000
Administrative Code; the 1999 Electrical Code; and the 1992 Model Energy Code. 
There is specifically included in the adoption Appendix Chapters 1, 11, and
Division 1 of 12, 32, 38, 49, and 70 of the Uniform Building Code, and the Fire
Code set out in the Related Publications to which reference is made in the
preface or introductory section of the Uniform Building Code.  There is
excepted from the codes the following:  the Uniform Building Code, 1927
edition, and the California State Fire Marshal construction materials listing. 
It is provided, however, that each code is modified and adopted with the
changes recommended by North Central Texas Council of Governments as published
and available for review on the effective date of this section.  Each of the
codes as modified herein are hereby adopted and incorporated as if fully set
out herein.
   (B)   In all instances in the codes where reference is made to a board of
appeals, same shall mean the Board of Adjustment for the Town of Lakeside.
   (C)   The Town Secretary is instructed to publish this section as provided
by law.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
publication as required by law and it is so ordained.
(Ord. 212, passed 1-13-2000)
§ 150.21  2000 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   The 2000 International Residential Code is hereby adopted with the
modifications set out in Ordinance 239.  To the extent this Code conflicts with
the codes adopted in §
150.20, then this Code shall prevail.
(Ord. 239, passed 1-10-2002)
§ 150.22  2000 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   The 2000 International Energy Conservation Code is hereby adopted with the
modifications set forth in Ordinance 240.
(Ord. 240, passed 1-10-2001)
DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS
§ 150.35  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS.  All buildings or structures which have any or all of
the following defects shall be deemed DILAPIDATED BUILDINGS:
      (1)   Those whose interior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean, or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity falls outside of the middle third of its base;
      (2)   Those which, exclusive of the foundation, show 33% or more, of
damage or deterioration of the supporting member or members, or 50% of damage
or deterioration of the nonsupporting enclosing or outside walls or covering;
      (3)   Those which have improperly distributed loads upon the floors or
roofs or in which the same are overloaded, or which have insufficient strength
to be reasonably safe for the purpose used;
      (4)   Those which have been damaged by fire, wind, or other causes so as
to have become dangerous to life, safety, morals, or to the general health and
welfare of the occupants or the people of the Town of Lakeside;
      (5)   Those which have become or are so dilapidated, decayed, unsafe,
unsanitary, or which so utterly fail to provide the amenities essential to
decent living that they are unfit for human habitation, or are likely to cause
sickness or disease, so as to work injury to the health, morals, safety, or
general welfare of those living therein;
      (6)   Those having light, air, and sanitation facilities which are
inadequate to protect the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of human
beings who live or may live therein;
      (7)   Those which have parts thereof which are so attached that they may
fall and injure members of the public or property;
      (8)   Those which because of their condition are unsafe, insanitary, or
dangerous to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of the people of
this town; and
      (9)   Those buildings existing in violation of any provision of the
building code of this town, or any provision of the fire prevention code, or
other ordinances of this town.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 150.36  STANDARDS FOR REPAIR, VACATION, OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Generally.  The following standards shall be followed in substance by
the Building Inspector and the City Council in ordering repair, vacation, or
demolition.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   If the dilapidated building can reasonably be repaired so that it
will no longer exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter, it shall be
ordered repaired.
      (2)   If the dilapidated building is in such condition as to make it
dangerous to the health, morals, safety, or general welfare of its occupants,
it shall be ordered to be vacated.
      (3)   In any case where a dilapidated building is 50% damaged or decayed,
or deteriorated from its original value or structure, it shall be demolished,
and in all cases where a building cannot be repaired so that it will no longer
exist in violation of the terms of this subchapter it shall be demolished.  In
all cases where a dilapidated building is a fire hazard existing or erected in
violation of the terms of this subchapter or any ordinance of the town or
statute of the State of Texas, it shall be demolished.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.37  NUISANCES.
   All dilapidated buildings within the terms of §
150.35 are hereby declared to be public nuisances, and shall be repaired,
vacated, or demolished as hereinbefore and hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.38  DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector shall:
   (A)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure about which complaints are
filed by any person to the effect that a building, wall, or structure is or may
be existing in violation of this subchapter;
   (B)   Inspect any building, wall, or structure reported (as hereinafter
provided for) by the Fire or Police Departments of this town as probably
existing in violation of the terms of this subchapter;
   (C)   Notify in writing the owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, agent, and
all other persons having an interest in the building as shown by the deed
records of Tarrant County or town records of the Town of Lakeside, of any
building found by him or her to be a dilapidated building within the standards
set forth in §
150.35, that:  the owner must vacate, or repair, or demolish the building in
accordance with the terms of the notice and this subchapter; the occupant or
lessee must vacate the building or may have it repaired in accordance with the
notice and remain in possession; the mortgagee, agent, or other persons having
an interest in the building as shown by the deed records of Tarrant County may
at his or her own risk repair, vacate, or demolish the building or have the
work or act done; provided, that any person notified under this division (C) to
repair, vacate, or demolish any building shall be given the reasonable time, as
may be necessary to do, or have done, the work or act required by the notice
provided for herein;
   (D)   Set forth in the notice provided for in division (C) above, a
description of the building, or structure deemed unsafe, a statement of the
particulars which make the building or structure a dilapidated building and an
order requiring the same to be put in the condition as to comply with the terms
of this subchapter so that the work will be completed within 120 days of
receipt of the notice;
   (E)   Report to the City Council any noncompliance with the notice provided
for in divisions (C) and (D) above;
   (F)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the City Council, and testify as
to the condition of dilapidated buildings; and
   (G)   Place a notice on all dilapidated buildings reading as follows:  “This
building has been found to be a dilapidated building by the Building
Inspector.  This notice is to remain on this building until it is repaired,
vacated, or demolished in accordance with the notice which has been given the
owner, occupant, lessee, mortgagee, or agent of this building, and all other
persons having an interest in the building as shown by the deed records of
Tarrant County.  It is unlawful to remove this notice until the notice is
complied with.”  The City Council may designate any town employee or citizen
elector as the Building Inspector even though he or she has other duties with
the town.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 150.39  APPEAL FROM ORDER OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   Any person sent notice under this subchapter or any owner of property
ordered repaired or demolished, may appeal the order of the Building Inspector
by filing with the Town Secretary within 30 days from the date of the notice an
application for appeal.  The application form shall require the following
information:
      (1)   The name of the appellant and his or her mailing address;
      (2)   The street address and, if known by the appellant, the legal
description of the property in question;
      (3)   The relationship of the appellant to the property in question (for
example, owner or lessee);
      (4)   A statement setting forth the relief requested; and
      (5)   The signature of the appellant.
   (B)   The Town Secretary may disregard any application for appeal filed more
than 30 days after the date of the notice sent under §
150.38.
   (C)   Upon receipt of any application for appeal timely filed, the Town
Secretary shall place the appeal on the agenda of the City Council and shall
notify the appellant of the time, date, and place of the meeting.  The notice
shall be sent to the address shown on the application for appeal via certified
mail, return receipt requested.  Should the Town Secretary receive any further
applications for appeal upon the same premises, they shall be placed upon the
agenda to be heard at the same place and time as the pending appeal and notice
shall be given in the same manner.
   (D)   The City Council shall hear the appeal at the time and place noted on
its agenda and shall have the power to affirm, reverse, or modify the order of
the Building Inspector, and the order shall be automatically suspended by the
filing of an application for appeal.  If the order is affirmed, the balance of
the 60-day time limit shall resume running from the date of the City Council’s
order.  If the order is reversed, the Building Inspector shall immediately
cease any civil proceedings against the property and shall abide by the further
orders as the Board shall make regarding the property.  If the order is
modified, the Board shall immediately announce the modification to all
appellants present at the meeting.  The Town Secretary shall enter the modified
order in the minutes of the City Council and shall send a copy of the relevant
portion of the minutes to all appellants not present and all persons who
received notice under §
150.38.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 150.40  FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Should there be noncompliance with any order of the Building Inspector, or
the City Council, and should the premises remain substandard to the extent that
the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the
occupants of the premises is endangered, the Building Inspector may take one or
more of the following actions:
   (A)   Institute demolition proceedings by:
      (1)   Issuing notice to the same persons and in the same manner as notice
was issued under §
150.38 that at a specified date, time, and place, the Building Inspector will
present to the City Council a request that the premises named in such notice be
demolished by the town and a request that the costs of the demolition be
charged against the property and that any person receiving notice may appear to
show cause why the demolition should not commence; and
      (2)   Placing such a request on the agenda of the Board for such a
hearing; or
   (B)   Order the premises vacated by:
      (1)   Issuing an order to the same persons and in the same manner as
notice was issued under §
150.38 that the premises shall not be used, entered, remained in, or occupied
until released by the Building Inspector, except for the purpose of actually
physically engaging in the required repairs, demolition, or removal; and
      (2)   Withholding the release until such time as the ordered repairs or
demolition are completed.
   (C)   Both divisions (A) and (B) above.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 150.41  DEMOLISHING OF STRUCTURE.
   (A)   If demolition is ordered by the City Council, the Town Secretary
shall, upon receiving the order, send notice to the same persons and in the
same manner as provided in §
150.38.  The notice shall specify:
      (1)   The address of the property in question;
      (2)   That the City Council has ordered the property demolished;
      (3)   That demolition work on the property can begin at any time after
ten days after the date of the notice;
      (4)   That the costs of demolition may be assessed against the property,
the feeholder, or both; and
      (5)   The notice shall be signed and dated by the Town Secretary.
   (B)   After sending notice, the town shall engage town personnel or an
independent contractor, after bids are taken, to do the demolition work.  The
work shall not commence, however, before the thirty-first day following the
date of notice.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 150.42  COSTS OF DEMOLITION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall keep an itemized account of the expenses
incurred by the town in the demolition of any building pursuant to the
provisions hereof, and upon the completion of the demolition, the Building
Inspector shall cause to be prepared and filed with the Town Secretary a report
specifying the work done, the itemized and total cost thereof, a description of
the real property upon which the building or structure is or was located, and
the names and addresses of the persons entitled to notice pursuant to §
150.38.
   (B)   The City Council may thereupon order that the costs, including
administrative costs, be made a personal obligation of the feeholder or assess
the charge against the property involved under the applicable provisions of the
constitutions and laws of the United States and the State of Texas.
   (C)   If the City Council orders that the charge shall be a personal
obligation of the feeholder, it shall request the Town Attorney to collect the
same on behalf of the town by use of all appropriate legal remedies; if the
City Council orders that the charge shall be assessed against the property
under the applicable provisions of the constitution and laws of the United
States, and the State of Texas, it shall confirm the assessment and cause the
same to be recorded on the assessment roll, and thereafter the assessment shall
constitute a special assessment against and a lien upon the property.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 150.43  DISCONTINUATION.
   After any premises have been ordered repaired or demolished under §
150.38, the Building Inspector shall regularly reinspect same.  If at any time
the building on the premises is no longer substandard to the extent that the
life, land, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants
thereof is endangered, the Building Inspector shall immediately withdraw his or
her prior order and issue a certificate reflecting the action to the feeholder
of the property.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 150.44  CHANGE IN FEEHOLDER.
   (A)   A change in feeholders of any property upon which proceedings are
pending under this subchapter shall not affect the validity of the proceedings
if either:
      (1)   The new feeholder has been a party served with notice at each stage
of the proceedings; or
      (2)   The new feeholder has been given notice as required by §
150.38.
   (B)   It shall be presumed that the new feeholder has been given notice
under §
150.38, as required by law.  If, however, the new feeholder shows that he or
she has not been so served, all pending proceedings under this subchapter are
invalid and must be recommenced.  A change in feeholders made for the purpose
of delaying or avoiding proceedings under this subchapter shall not affect the
validity of the proceedings.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 150.45  DUTIES OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The employees of the Fire Department shall make a report in writing to the
Building Inspector of all buildings or structures which are, may be, or are
suspected to be dangerous buildings within the terms of this subchapter.  The
reports must be delivered to the Building Inspector within 24 hours of the
discovery of the buildings by any employee of the Fire Department.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
§ 150.46  DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   All employees of the Police Department shall make a report in writing to the
Building Inspector of any buildings or structures which are, may be, or are
suspected to be dangerous buildings within the terms of this subchapter.  The
reports must be delivered to the Building Inspector within 24 hours of the
discovery of the buildings by any employee of the Police Department.
(Ord. 98, passed 5-3-1983)
SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS
§ 150.50  PURPOSE.
   These regulations are enacted pursuant to the authority granted by Tex.
Local Gov’t Code, Ch. 214, and are intended to establish minimum standards for
the continued use and occupancy of all buildings regardless of the date of
their construction.
(Ord. 418, passed 5-13-2021)
§ 150.51  SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS DEFINED; BUILDING OFFICIAL DEFINED.
   (A)   Generally. Any building or portion thereof which is determined to be
an unsafe building in accordance with the building code, or any building or
portion thereof, including any dwelling unit, guest room or suite of rooms, or
the premises on which the same is located, in which there exists any of the
conditions referenced in this section to an extent that endangers the life,
limb, health, property, safety or welfare of the public or the occupants
thereof, shall be deemed and hereby are declared to be substandard buildings.
   (B)   Inadequate sanitation. Buildings or portions thereof shall be deemed
substandard when they are unsanitary. Inadequate sanitation shall include but
not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Lack of or improper water closet, lavatory, bathtub, or shower in a
dwelling unit or lodging house.
      (2)   Lack of or improper water closets, lavatories and bathtubs or
showers per number of guests in a hotel.
      (3)   Lack of or improper kitchen sink in a dwelling unit.
      (4)   Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a hotel.
      (5)   Lack of hot or cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a
dwelling unit or apartment complex required by other city codes.
      (6)   Lack of adequate heating facilities.
      (7)   Lack of or improper operation of required ventilating equipment.
      (8)   Lack of minimum amounts of natural light and ventilation required
by city codes.
      (9)   Room and space dimensions less than required by city codes.
      (10)   Lack of required electrical lighting.
      (11)   Dampness of habitable rooms.
      (12)   Infestation by insects, vermin or rodents as determined by the
Health Officer.
      (13)   General dilapidation or improper maintenance.
      (14)   Lack of connection to required sewage disposal system.
      (15)   Lack of adequate garbage and rubbish storage and removal
facilities.
      (16)   Partial destruction or damage by fire unrepaired for more than 90
days.
   (C)   Structural hazards. Buildings or portions thereof shall be deemed
substandard when they are or contain structural hazards. Structural hazards
shall include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Deteriorated or inadequate foundation;
      (2)   Defective or deteriorated flooring or floor supports;
      (3)   Flooring or floor supports of insufficient size to carry imposed
load with safety;
      (4)   Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports that split,
lean, list or buckle due to defective material or deterioration;
      (5)   Members of walls, partitions or other vertical supports that are of
insufficient size to carry imposed loads with safety;
      (6)   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other
horizontal members which sag, split or buckle due to defective material or
deterioration;
      (7)   Members of ceilings, roofs, ceiling and roof supports, or other
horizontal members that are of insufficient size to carry imposed loads with
safety;
      (8)   Fireplaces or chimneys which list, bulge or settle due to defective
material or deterioration;
      (9)   Fireplaces or chimneys which are of insufficient size or strength
to carry imposed loads with safety;
      (10)   Heating flues and exhausts which list, bulge or settle due to
defective material or deterioration.
   (D)   Nuisances. Buildings or portions thereof in which there exists any
nuisance as defined by ordinance are deemed substandard buildings.
   (E)   Hazardous electrical wiring. Electrical wiring which was installed in
violation of code requirements in effect at the time of installation or
electrical wiring not installed in accordance with generally accepted
construction practices in areas where no codes were in effect or which has not
been maintained in good condition or which is not being used in a safe manner
shall be considered substandard.
   (F)   Hazardous plumbing. Plumbing which was installed in violation of code
requirements in effect at the time of installation or plumbing not installed in
accordance with generally accepted construction practices in areas where no
codes were in effect or which has not been maintained in good condition or
which is not free of cross-connections or siphonage between fixtures shall be
considered substandard.
   (G)   Hazardous mechanical equipment. Mechanical equipment which was
installed in violation of code requirements in effect at the time of
installation or mechanical equipment not installed in accordance with generally
accepted construction practices in areas where no codes were in effect or which
has not been maintained in good and safe condition shall be considered
substandard.
   (H)   Faulty weather protection. Buildings or portions thereof shall be
considered substandard when they have faulty weather protection, which shall
include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Deteriorated, crumbling or loose plaster;
      (2)   Deteriorated or ineffective waterproofing of exterior walls, roof,
foundations or floors, including broken windows or doors;
      (3)   Defective or lack of weather protection for exterior wall
coverings, including lack of paint, or weathering due to lack of paint or other
approved protective covering; and/or
      (4)   Broken, rotted, missing, split or buckled exterior walls or wall
coverings or roof coverings;
   (I)   Fire hazards. Any building or portion thereof, device, apparatus,
equipment, combustible waste or vegetation which, in the opinion of the Chief
of the Fire Department or the Fire Marshal, is in such a condition as to cause
a fire or explosion or provide a ready fuel to augment the spread and intensity
of fire or explosion arising from any cause shall be considered a substandard
building.
   (J)   Faulty materials of construction. The use of materials of construction
except those which are specifically allowed or approved by the housing code and
the building code and which have been adequately maintained in good and safe
condition shall cause a building to be substandard.
   (K)   Hazardous or insanitary premises. The accumulation of weeds,
vegetation, junk, dead organic matter, debris, garbage, offal, rat harborages,
stagnant water, combustible materials and similar materials or conditions on
premises constitutes a nuisance to be abated as provided by this subchapter.
   (L)   Inadequate exits. Except for those buildings or portions thereof which
have been provided with adequate exit facilities conforming to the provisions
of this code, buildings or portions thereof whose exit facilities were
installed in violation of code requirements in effect at the time of their
construction or whose exit facilities have not been increased in number or
width in relation to any increase in occupant load due to alterations,
additions or change in use or occupancy subsequent to the time of construction
shall be considered substandard. Notwithstanding compliance with code
requirements in effect at the time of their construction, buildings or portions
thereof shall be considered substandard when the Building Official finds that
an unsafe condition exists through an improper location of exits, or a lack of
an adequate number or width of exit, or when other conditions exist which are
dangerous to human life.
   (M)   Inadequate fire protection or firefighting equipment. Buildings or
portions thereof shall be considered substandard when they are not provided
with the fire-resistive construction or fire-extinguishing systems or equipment
required by the codes of the city, except those buildings or portions thereof
which conformed with all applicable laws at the time of their construction and
whose fire-resistive integrity and fire-extinguishing systems or equipment have
been adequately maintained and improved in relation to any increase in occupant
load, alteration or addition, or any change in occupancy.
   (N)   Improper occupancy. All buildings or portions thereof occupied for
living, sleeping, cooking or dining purposes which were not designed or
intended to be used for such occupancies shall be considered substandard.
   (O)   Building Official. For purposes of §§ 150.50 through 150.57, any of
the following officials may act as the town’s “Building Official”:
      (1)   The Town Administrator or his or her designee;
      (2)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee;
      (3)   The town’s Fire Marshal;
      (4)   The town’s Code Enforcement Officer; or
      (5)   The town’s Building Inspector.
(Ord. 418, passed 5-13-2021)
§ 150.52  NOTICES AND ORDERS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Commencement of proceedings. Whenever the Building Official has
inspected or caused to be inspected any building, and has found and determined
that such building is:
      (1)   Dilapidated, substandard, or unfit for human habitation and a
hazard to the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (2)   Regardless of its structural condition, unoccupied by its owners,
lessees, or other invitees and is unsecured from unauthorized entry to the
extent that it could be entered or used by vagrants or other uninvited persons
as a place of harborage, or could be entered or used by children; or
      (3)   Boarded up, fenced, or otherwise secured in any manner if:
         (a)   The building constitutes a danger to the public even though
secured from entry; or
         (b)   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building in the manner described by division
(A)(2) of this section, the Building Official shall commence proceedings to
cause the repair, rehabilitation, vacation, removal or demolition of the
building. The Building Official may seek an administrative search warrant to
effect any such inspection.
   (B)   Issuance of notice. The Building Official shall issue a notice
directed to the record owner of the building. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   The street address and description (legal or other) sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located;
      (2)   A statement that the Building Official has found the building to be
substandard, with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous;
      (3)   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by the
Building Official;
      (4)   A requirement that the owner or person in charge of the building or
premises secure required permits and commence the required action within 15
days from the date of such notice and that all work be completed within 90
days, or as the Building Official determines is reasonable;
      (5)   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the notice shall contain a requirement that the
building be vacated within such time from the date of the notice as determined
by him or her to be reasonable;
      (6)   A statement advising that, if any required repair or demolition
work is not commenced within the time specified, the Building Official will,
without further notice, order the building vacated and posted to prevent
further occupancy until the work is completed; and
      (7)   A statement advising that, if any required repair or demolition
work is not commenced or completed within the time specified, proceedings will
be commenced to have the building repaired, removed or demolished and the cost
of such assessed as a charge against the land.
   (C)   Service of notice. The notice and any amended notice shall be served
upon the record owner.
   (D)   Method of service. Service of notice shall be made upon all persons
entitled thereto either personally or by mailing a copy of such notice and
order by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to each
such person at his address as it appears on the last tax roll of the city, or
as known to the Building Official. If no address of any such person so appears
or is known to the Building Official, then a copy of the notice and order shall
be published twice within ten consecutive days in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city. Failure to receive such notice or order shall not
affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this section. Service by
certified mail in the manner provided in this section shall be deemed effective
on the date of mailing. Service by publication shall be deemed effective on the
date of the second publication.
   (E)   Order to vacate. An order to vacate immediately may be issued only if
the building or structure is in such condition as to make it immediately
dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or of the
occupants.
   (F)   Posting. Every notice to vacate shall, in addition to being served as
provided in division (D), be posted at or upon each exit of the building, and
shall be in substantially the following form:
DO NOT ENTER
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a Misdemeanor to Occupy this Building
or to Remove or Deface this Notice
Building Official
Town of Lakeside, Texas
 
(Ord. 418, passed 5-13-2021)
§ 150.53  VIOLATIONS.
   No person shall remain in or enter any building which has been posted as
provided by §
150.52, except that entry may be made to repair, demolish or remove such
building under substandard building repair permit. No person or animal shall
remain in or on the property between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. No person shall
remove or deface any such notice after it is posted until the required repair,
demolition or removal has been completed and a certificate of occupancy issued
pursuant to the provisions of the building code. Any person violating this
section shall be guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, and any person who fails to
meet the requirements made in any notice duly served as provided in this
subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each day such failure continues
after the date the notice requires compliance.
(Ord. 418, passed 5-13-2021)
§ 150.54  PUBLIC HEARING; ORDER BY COUNCIL.
   If the required repair or demolition has not been commenced within 15 days
from the date of any notice served pursuant to this subchapter, or if required
action has not been completed within 90 days or as required by such notice, the
Building Official shall commence proceedings as follows:
   (A)   The Building Official shall cause such building to be vacated by
posting at each entrance thereto a notice reading:
SUBSTANDARD BUILDING
It is a Misdemeanor to Occupy this Building
or to Remove or Deface this Notice
Building Official
Town of Lakeside, Texas
 
   (B)   The City Council shall be notified and requested to consider holding a
public hearing to decide whether to order the repair, removal or demolition
specified in such notice to be done and whether to cause the cost of such work
to be paid and levied as a special assessment against the property.
   (C)   The City Council may set a date and time for a public hearing to
consider ordering the improvement and assessment of any property the owner has
failed to improve as required by notices described in this subchapter. Such
public hearing shall be held not less than 15 nor more than 60 days from the
date such hearing is set.
   (D)   (1)   A title search shall be conducted to discover each owner,
mortgagee and lienholder, and notice of the public hearing to be held before
the City Council shall be given by causing a notice thereof to be served on the
owner of such property and upon each mortgagee and lienholder having an
interest in the building or in the property on which the building is located. A
diligent search shall be made by searching the following records:
         (a)   County real property records;
         (b)   Appraisal district records;
         (c)   Records of the Secretary of State;
         (d)   Assumed name records of the county;
         (e)   Tax records of the city; and
         (f)   Utility records of the city.
      (2)   Such notice shall be mailed to such owner, mortgagee and lienholder
by certified mail, return receipt requested. The notice shall include the date,
time and place of such hearing and shall state that the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee will be required to submit proof of the scope of any work that may be
required to comply with this subchapter and the time it will take to reasonably
perform the work together with:
         (a)   The name and address of the record owner;
         (b)   The street address of the premises;
         (c)   An identification, which is not required to be a legal
description, of the building and the property on which it is located;
         (d)   A description of the violation of city standards that is present
at the building; and
         (e)   A statement that the city will vacate, secure, remove, or
demolish the building or relocate the occupants of the building if the ordered
action is not taken within a reasonable time.
   (E)   The Town Secretary shall, at the time notices are mailed, file a
notice of the hearing in the County Clerk’s office, stating the name and
address of the owner, if such can be determined, and a legal description of the
land, and stating the purpose, time and place of the hearing.
   (F)   After conducting a hearing authorized under this section, if the
Council finds that the allegations are true, the Council shall require the
owner, lienholder, or mortgagee of the building to, within 30 days:
      (1)   Secure the building from unauthorized entry; or
      (2)   Repair, remove, or demolish the building, unless the owner or
lienholder establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
performed within 30 days.
   (G)   If the Council allows the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee more than 30
days to repair, remove, or demolish the building, the Council shall establish
specific time schedules for the commencement and performance of the work and
shall require the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee to secure the property in a
reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the work is being performed, as
determined by the Council.
   (H)   The owner, lienholder, or mortgagee shall not be allowed more than 90
days to repair, remove, or demolish the building or fully perform all work
required to comply with the order unless the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee:
      (1)   Submits a detailed plan and time schedule for the work at the
hearing; and
      (2)   Establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
completed within 90 days because of the scope and complexity of the work.
   (I)   If the Council allows the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee more than 90
days to complete any part of the work required to repair, remove, or demolish
the building, the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee shall be required to
regularly submit progress reports to the city to demonstrate that the owner,
lienholder, or mortgagee has complied with the time schedules established for
commencement and performance of the work. The order may require that the owner,
lienholder, or mortgagee appear before the Council or its designee to
demonstrate compliance with the time schedules.
   (J)   In a public hearing to determine whether a building complies with the
standards set out in this subchapter, the owner, lienholder, or mortgagee has
the burden of proof to demonstrate the scope of any work that may be required
to comply with this subchapter and the time it will take to reasonably perform
the work. The Council shall specify a reasonable time for the building to be
vacated, secured, repaired, removed or demolished by the owner or for the
occupants to be relocated by the owner and an additional reasonable time for
the ordered action to be taken by the mortgagees or lienholders in the event
the owner fails to comply with the order within the time provided for action by
the owner.
   (K)   The Council’s requirement shall be reduced to writing and shall be
considered an order. Within ten days after the date that the order is issued,
the City Secretary shall:
      (1)   File a copy of the order in the office of the municipal secretary
or clerk; and
      (2)   Publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality
in which the building is located a notice containing:
         (a)   The street address or legal description of the property;
         (b)   The date of the hearing;
         (c)   A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and
         (d)   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
   (L)   After the hearing, the City Secretary shall promptly mail by certified
mail, return receipt requested, a copy of the order to the owner of the
building, and if the owner does not take the ordered action within the allotted
time, the municipality shall promptly mail by certified mail, return receipt
requested, a copy of the order to any lienholder or mortgagee of the building.
(Ord. 418, passed 5-13-2021)
§ 150.55  PERFORMANCE OF WORK BY TOWN; RECOVERY OF TOWN’S COSTS.
   (A)   Procedure. If the building is not vacated, secured, repaired, or
removed or the occupants are not relocated within the allotted time pursuant to
the provisions of the order of the City Council, the work may be accomplished
by city personnel or by private contract as may be deemed necessary. Rubble and
debris shall be removed from any premises and the lot shall be cleaned. The
building or building materials may be sold if removal is ordered, and the
proceeds shall be used to offset other costs of cleaning the lot.
   (B)   Costs. The cost of such work shall be paid from the city funds and
shall constitute a special assessment and a lien against such property to
secure its payment from the date the lien is recorded in the County Clerk’s
office. Such liens shall be privileged as provided by law. The City Attorney
may bring an action in any court of proper jurisdiction to foreclose the lien
and to recover the costs incurred by the city.
(Ord. 418, passed 5-13-2021)
§ 150.56  NOTICE OF LIEN.
   A sworn account of the expense incurred by the city in the repair, removal
or demolition of any building, done pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter, shall be filed by the Building Official with the City Secretary.
The City Secretary shall file such notice of the city’s assessment and lien in
the records of the County Clerk. Such notices shall read substantially as
follows:
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF TARRANT
NOTICE OF LIEN
__________, Building Official for the Town of Lakeside, Texas, makes oath and
says that the Town of Lakeside has incurred an expense of $ _________ in
improving property, the legal description of which is ___________. Such expense
was incurred to repair, remove or demolish substandard buildings after notices
pursuant to ordinance and to Chapter 214, Texas Local Government Code, were
served on the record owner thereof,__________, whose address is__________.
 
________________
Building Official, Town of Lakeside, Texas
 
SWORN TO AND SUBSCRIBED before me by the said _____ this _____ day of______, to
certify which witness my hand and seal of office.
 
________________
Notary Public in and for the State of Texas
(Ord. 418, passed 5-13-2021)
§ 150.57  RESTRICTIONS ON PROPERTY WHERE LIEN IS IN EFFECT.
   No utility service, building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be
allowed for any such  property until any lien imposed pursuant to §
150.55 is discharged.
(Ord. 418, passed 5-13-2021)
MOVEMENT OF BUILDINGS
§ 150.60  MOVEMENT PERMIT.
   No person, firm, or company shall move any house or building within the
limits of the town, where the same shall be moved in, through or upon the
streets, roads, or public grounds, unless the person shall first secure a
permit to do so from the Chief of Police, provided, however, this subchapter
shall not apply to any person, firm, or company which may desire to move a
portable building or house, or any other structure the size of which would
permit the house or building, or any other structure to be loaded on a normal
vehicle or truck and the load not exceeding any weight, height or width
requirements as prescribed by the State Highway Department in Tex.
Transportation Code, Ch. 622, Uniform Act Regulating Traffic on Highways, as
amended.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.61  COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODE PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   If any such building being moved is to be located within the town and is to
be reconstructed, remodeled, rebuilt, or set upon a permanent foundation, no
permit shall be issued for the moving of the building into the town until the
owner thereof secures a building permit for the reconstruction, remodeling,
rebuilding, or setting of the house or building upon a permanent foundation, in
accordance with the provisions of the building codes of the town.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.62  CONSENT OF UTILITY COMPANIES REQUIRED PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police may refuse to issue a moving permit, as required by this
subchapter, in any case where movement of any house or building will
necessitate removal or cutting of any utility wires belonging to a public
utility company, television cable company or to the town, until the time as the
person or firm making application for the permit shall have made satisfactory
arrangements with the companies owning or controlling the wires, either by
written agreement or by depositing with the company a sufficient amount of
money to cover the cost of the work.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.63  REFUSAL OF PERMIT UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   If the Chief of Police deems it unsafe or dangerous to the public to move
any structure, house, or building over public streets roads or grounds, on
account of the condition of the building or structure, no permit shall be
issued for the moving.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.64  CONDITIONS AND ROUTE OF MOVEMENT MUST BE SET OUT IN PERMIT.
   A permit, as required by this subchapter, issued by the Chief of Police
shall state, specifically, all the conditions to be complied with in moving,
shall designate the route to be taken and limit and prescribe the hours for the
movement.  In no case shall any paved streets, alleys, avenues, or public
grounds be used for that purpose unless designated in the moving permit.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.65  FEES; MAY BE WAIVED IN EMERGENCY.
   The owner of any building being moved in accordance with this subchapter
shall pay for the permit required by §
150.60 the sum of $250 for the first day and $100 for each additional day, or
fraction thereof, that the house, building, or structure is in, or on the
streets, alleys, avenues, or public grounds within the town; provided, that in
a case of a public emergency, so declared by resolution of the City Council,
the Council shall have the right to waive all or part of the permit fee herein
provided for.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.66  BOND.
   Before a moving permit as required by this subchapter is granted by the
Chief of Police, the party applying therefor shall give a bond in the sum of
$1,000,000 with good and sufficient sureties to be approved by the Town
Secretary and Town Attorney, conditioning, among other things, that the party
will save, indemnify, and hold harmless the town against all liabilities,
judgements, costs, and expenses which may in any way accrue against the town
because of the granting of the permit, and that upon the expiration of the time
named in the permit, or sooner if the use of the streets, alleys, avenues, or
public grounds is no longer necessary, he or she shall clear the same of all
obstructions.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.67  MOVEMENT TO BE CONTINUOUS; PARKING; LIGHTING OF BUILDING.
   The movement of a house, building, or structure under a permit, as required
by this subchapter, when commenced, shall be continuous during all the hours of
the day, and day by day, and at night if required by the Chief of Police, until
completed, and will be carried on with the least possible obstruction to the
streets and roads being utilized.  No building or house shall be allowed to
remain over night upon any street crossing or intersection or in such a
position as to prevent each access to any fire hydrant.  Lighted signals shall
be kept in a conspicuous place at each end and in the center of the building
during the night.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.68  REPORT ON REACHING DESTINATION; INSPECTION AND REPAIR OF STREETS.
   (A)   Every person receiving a permit from the Chief of Police to move a
house, building, or structure within one day after the building reaches its
destination, report that fact to the Chief of Police, who shall thereupon
inspect the streets, alleys, avenues, or public grounds over which the building
has been moved and ascertain the condition thereof.
   (B)   If the movement of the building has caused any damage to the streets,
alleys, avenues, or public grounds, the building mover shall forthwith place
the same in as good repair as they were in before the permit was granted.  Upon
his or her failure to do so within ten days thereafter, to the satisfaction of
the Chief of Police, the Chief of Police shall report the damage done to the
streets, alleys, avenues, or public grounds to the City Council who shall cause
the damage to be repaired and hold the sureties of the bonds given by the
building mover responsible for the payment of same.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.69  NIGHT POSITION REPORT REQUIRED.
   Every building mover shall report to the Chief of Police or his or her
assistants each night, the exact location where the building is to stand on the
streets for the night.  The failure of any permit holder to make this report
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.70  MOVE TO BE CONDUCTED CAREFULLY; REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   All building movers shall proceed in a careful manner with movement of
a building over a public street, alley, avenue, or public grounds, and shall
not in any manner injure or destroy trees, grass plots, curbing, or sidewalks,
nor in any manner interfere with the private property of individuals.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall have the power to revoke any permit
whenever, in his or her judgement, any building mover is proceeding in a
reckless and careless manner in the movement of a building.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.71  EVIDENCE OF REHABILITATION.
   Any building, house, or structure moved into the town must show evidence of
rehabilitation or progress towards compliance with the Town of Lakeside
building code within 30 days from the arrival of the building in the town, the
determination to be made by the Building Inspector.  Any such building so moved
into the town must meet all structural and other requirements of all applicable
town building codes within 120 days from the date the structure is moved into
the town.  The Building Inspector may allow extensions not to exceed 60 days
when in his or her judgment extenuating circumstances exist, and then only if
substantial progress has been made within the original 120 days towards the
improvement and/or rehabilitation to meet all applicable town building codes. 
It being the purpose and intent of this section to keep all structures moved
into the town up to the standard required by all applicable town building codes
in like manner and the same basis as with structures built or presently located
within the town.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
§ 150.72  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective from and after passage and publication
hereof.
(Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.80  PURPOSE.
   By this subchapter it is the intention of the City Council to provide
minimum safety requirements for swimming pools constructed in the town, and to
provide an orderly system for authorizing and operating Lakeside swimming
pools. This subchapter does not replace or supplement additional requirements
by local or state statues.
(Ord. 313, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 150.81  PRIVATE RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Permits and approval.
      (1)   This section applies only to private pools. Private pool means any
swimming pool located on private, single-family residential property under the
control of the homeowner or tenant, the use of which is limited to members of
the homeowner's or tenant's family or invited guests.
      (2)   Swimming pool construction or above ground swimming pool (defined
as any pool type structure that is deeper than 24 inches) erection in
residential zoned areas will not begin until a building permit has been
obtained. No pool may be used until the final inspection has been completed.
The site plan for the pool must include the required approval from the local
electric service provider.
      (3)   A site plan for the proposed pool must be submitted to the Town
Administrator and a fee for issuance of a permit must be paid at that time. The
site plan will be reviewed to ensure that the pool, the site and all matters
pertaining thereto meet the requirements of this subchapter. Once all
requirements have been met and fees paid, a permit will be issued for
construction or erection of a pool.
      (4)   Any permit issued shall be valid for a period of six months from
the date of issuance. If a pool has not been completed and received final
inspection and approval within that time, then the applicant must begin the
permit process again, including the payment of a new application fee.
   (B)   Requirements.  A swimming pool may be constructed or erected and
operated in conjunction with any principal use in a residential zoned area or
permitted special use when:
      (1)   The pool is not located in any minimum yard space as required in
each zoning district. Pools are not permitted in front yard areas or an area
that is in front of any building line;
      (2)   A wall or fence to limit access to the pool must be built and
maintained and shown in any plan submitted, including materials. The wall or
fence must be not less than four feet high, constructed of a material that will
not allow a four-inch sphere to pass through it and which shall have a self-
latching gate at all entrances through the wall or fence. As an alternative to
the construction of a wall or fence, there may be installed a power safety
cover, operated by use of a key, that conforms to the specifications contained
in ASTM F 1346-91 as issued by ASTM, Inc. (formerly known as the American
Society for Testing and Materials), including any and all amendments and
revisions thereto;
      (3)   All lighting must meet current building codes and be shielded or
directed to face away from adjoining residences. If lights are not individually
shielded, they shall be so designed that direct rays from the lights shall not
be visible from adjacent properties; and
      (4)   All specifications for the pool must meet state or federal
regulations and rules.
   (C)   Maintenance.
      (1)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the occupant and, if not
the same person, the owner of the property to maintain the fence or cover in
good condition at all times and to make the replacement or repairs as are
needed to ensure the effectiveness of the barrier to access to the pool.
      (2)   The failure to place a fence, place a safety cover over a pool when
not in active use, or maintain either a fence or safety cover in good repair so
that same shall be effective in creating a barrier to entry to the poof shall
be a violation of this subchapter and subject the occupant and, if not the same
person, the owner, of the property to the penalties contained in this
subchapter.
   (D)   Nuisance and enforcement.
      (1)    The failure to place a fence or safety cover over a pool as
provided herein, or the failure to adequately maintain the fence or safety
cover in good repair so same shall be effective in creating a barrier to entry
into the pool, shall constitute a nuisance and shall subject the occupant and
owner of the property to all provisions of the nuisance ordinances of the Town
of Lakeside, including the right and authority of the town to seek and obtain
injunctive relief, including mandatory injunctive relief, against the occupant
and owner of the property in order to correct and remedy the nuisance
condition. If action is required to be taken by the town to enforce this
subchapter through court proceedings, the town may recover its attorney fees
from the occupant and/or owner, or jointly and severally, as determined by the
court.
      (2)   The failure of an occupant and/or owner to maintain the water in
the pool in a healthful condition to the extent that same shall constitute a
hazard to the health or welfare of surrounding property owners shall constitute
a nuisance and shall subject the occupant and owner of the property to all
provisions of the nuisance ordinances of the Town of Lakeside, including the
right and authority of the town to seek and obtain injunctive relief, including
mandatory injunctive relief, against the occupant and owner of the property in
order to correct and remedy the nuisance condition. If action is required to be
taken by the town to enforce this subchapter through court proceedings, the
town may recover its attorney fees from the occupant and/or owner, or jointly
and severally, as determined by the court.
(Ord. 313, passed 6-22-2010)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.82  PUBLIC AND SEMI-PUBLIC SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CERTIFIED POOL OPERATOR. The person trained through an approved program
and ultimately responsible for the safe sanitary maintenance of a public or
semipublic pool. One certified pool operator is required on staff per site.
      FREE CHLORINE RESIDUAL.  The chlorine concentration, in milligrams per
liter (mg/l) units of water, available for rapid and effective biocidal action.
This is the chlorine which remains uncombined with nitrogenous or ammoniacal
compounds after the initial chlorine demand of the water has been satisfied.
      LIFEGUARD. An individual schooled and certified in an advanced course of
instruction in lifesaving and water safety equivalent to that offered by the
American Red Cross.
      POOL.  See SWIMMING POOL.
      PUBLIC POOL.  Any pool, spa or water slide which is intended to be used
by the general public for swimming, bathing or other related purposes and is
operated by an owner, lessee, operator, licensee or concessionaire, regardless
of whether a fee is charged for use.
      RESIDENTIAL.  Pertaining to any structure or premises used for permanent
living quarters of whatever type, including conventional single-family
residences, duplexes or multifamily residences.
      SEMI-PUBLIC POOL.  Any pool, spa or water slide which is not included
within the definition of either PRIVATE POOL or PUBLIC POOL as those terms are
defined in this section.
      SPA.  A therapeutic pool, hydrotherapy pool, whirlpool, hot tub and
similar type pools which may not be drained, cleaned and refilled for each
individual.
      SWIMMING POOL.  Any structure, basin, chamber of tank containing an
artificial body of water for swimming, diving or recreational bathing, and
shall include water slides.
      WATER PARK.  A facility consisting of multiple attractions including
water slides, wave pools, children areas, endless rivers and various other
attractions that differ from the traditional swimming pool complex. In order to
qualify as a WATER PARK, all attractions must be contained on one site.
      WATER SLIDE.  Any recreational water slide flume designed to provide a
descending ridge into a splashdown pool at the base of the slide.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   A person shall not operate a public or semi-public pool in the town
unless and until a permit for such purposes has been issued by the Town
Administrator or his or her designee.
      (2)   An application for such permit as required in this section shall be
made in writing to the Town Administrator or his or her designee upon forms
prescribed and furnished by the town.
      (3)   An applicant must designate a certified pool operator for each
complex for which a permit is sought, and the person designated as the
certified pool operator must be employed on the premises where the pool is
located.
      (4)   Operational permits shall expire on April 30 of each year, unless
suspended for cause before the expiration date, and must be renewed each year
as provided below.
      (5)   Public pools which are owned and operated by the town or public
schools must obtain an operational permit but shall be exempt from paying the
application fee and the operational permit fee.
   (C)   Duration and renewal of permit.  The permit shall be renewed on May 1
of each calendar year. A permit shall be renewed only after inspection of the
pool by the Town Administrator of his or her designee to ensure that the pool
continues to meet all requirements of this subchapter, including any changes
made since the date of issuance of the last permit.
   (D)   Inspections.  The Town Administrator is authorized to conduct such
inspection as he or she deems necessary to ensure compliance with all
provisions of this subchapter. He or she shall have right of entry at any
reasonable hour upon the premises where a public or semi-public pool is
located.  He or she shall have the authority to collect water samples from the
pool. Each public or semi-public pool shall be inspected by a consumer health
official prior to use by the public for each swimming season as a part of the
renewal of a permit as provided herein.
   (E)   Maintenance and operation.
      (1)   Every public and semi-public pool shall employ a certified pool
operator, as provided in division (B) above, who shall be responsible for
compliance with all parts of this subchapter relating to pool maintenance, pool
operation and safety of swimmers. It shall be unlawful for such certified pool
operator to cause or permit the existence of a condition which is in violation
of any part of this subchapter.
      (2)   All pumps, pump rooms, filters, disinfectant and chemical feeders,
drains, ladders, lighting, ropes and appurtenant equipment used in the
operation of all public and semi-public pools shall be maintained in a good
state of repair.
      (3)   All public and semi-public pools shall be treated and maintained in
accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   Every pool shall contain a disinfection concentration of a
minimum free chlorine residual of 1.0 mg/l.  Every spa shall contain a
disinfection concentration of a minimum free chlorine residual of 2.0 mg/l. 
Use of any disinfectant other than chlorine must be approved by the consumer
health official.  A test kit for measuring the concentration of the
disinfectant, accurate within 0.2 mg/l, shall be provided at each pool/spa.
         (b)   If cyanuric acid is used to stabilize the free available
chlorine, or if one of the chlorinated isocyanurate compounds is used as the
disinfecting chemical, the concentration of cyanuric acid in the water should
be at least 30 mg/l, but shall not exceed 100 mg/l.  A test kit should be
available for measuring the concentration of cyanuric acid.
         (c)   Every pool shall have water a pH of not less than 7.2 and not
more than 8.0.  A pH test kit accurate to the nearest 0.2pH units, shall be
provided at each pool. The total alkalinity of the pool water shall be at least
50 mg/l, but not greater than 150 mg/l.
         (d)   The presence of organisms of the coliform group in any sample
shall be deemed unacceptable water quality.
         (e)   Every pool shall have water clarity sufficient for the main
drain or a six-inch-diameter turbidity test disk placed at the deepest part of
the pool to be clearly visible. Failure to meet this requirement shall be
sufficient cause for immediate closure of the pool.
         (f)   Every pool shall be free of scum and foreign floating matter,
sediment, dirt, slime and algae and all other foreign material that may be
conducive to the transmission of disease.
      (4)   The recirculatory system of a public or semipublic pool must be in
operation and properly maintained at all times.
      (5)   Water introduced into the pool shall be supplied through an
approved air gap. Any other method of introducing water into the pool system
must comply with the Town of Lakeside Plumbing Code.
      (6)   Areas surrounding a public or semi-public pool, including
bathhouses, dressing rooms, toilets, shower stalls and lounging areas, shall be
kept clean and in a state of good repair at all times.
      (7)   All swimming pool back wash and drainage shall be disposed of into
drainage ditches or used to recycle as gray water and for conservation purposes
only. No backwash or drainage water may be pumped or drained directly to
adjacent public or private property.
   (F)   Health and safety provisions of public and semi-public pools.
      (1)   All public pools, excluding spas, shall be attended by at least one
lifeguard during all hours of operation.
      (2)   The following safety equipment shall be readily available at all
public and semi-public pools, excluding spas, during all times they are open
for use:
         (a)   A life pole or shepherd's crook type of pole, having blunted
ends, with a minimum length of 12 feet, or a ring buoy not more than 15 inches
in diameter, to which shall be attached a throw line at least the length of the
maximum width of the pool.
         (b)   A guard line rope separating the shallow portion of the pool
from the deep portion at the breakpoint depth.
      (3)   Semi-public pools, where no lifeguard service is provided, shall
post in plain view at each entrance to the pool a warning sign which states
"WARNING - NO LIFEGUARD ON DUTY," with clear, legible lettering at least four
inches in height. In addition, the sign shall also state, "CHILDREN SHOULD NOT
USE POOL WITHOUT AN ADULT IN ATTENDANCE."
      (4)   A sign shall be placed in distinct view of swimmers at all
semipublic pools giving the emergency telephone number of the Police Department
and the ambulance service or shall state the location of the nearest telephone
and also state that emergency telephone numbers are posted at that location. At
public pools, these telephone numbers shall be conveniently located at each
telephone location.
      (5)   Depth markings must be visible at or above the water surface of the
vertical pool wall and on the edge of the deck next to the pool, at maximum and
minimum depth points, at points of break between depths and spaced at not more
than 25-foot intervals around the entire perimeter of the pool. Markings must
be in numerals of minimum height of four inches.
      (6)   A sign should be posted requiring a shower before using the pool.
      (7)   A sign should be posted prohibiting glass within the public or
semi-public area or enclosure.
      (8)   A sign should be posted at all public and semi-public spas warning
that alcohol should not be consumed prior to or while using the spa.
      (9)   All chemicals used in swimming pool water treatment shall be stored
in their original containers and kept in a cool, dry and well-ventilated place,
out of reach of children, and should be kept in a locked room.
      (10)   The pool shall be surrounded by an approved wall or fence not less
than six feet in height with self-latching gates with locks at all entrances
into the pool area. Said fence shall be kept in good repair, including areas
adjacent and on the inside and outside of the fence.
      (11)   In the case of private pools that are abandoned or are allowed to
become filthy, rendering them unsafe for swimming or bathing, the town may
require that the pool in question be secured with a cover approved by the Town
Administrator. The town may choose to cover the pool in questions and collect
the cost incurred from the owner of the property on which the pool is located.
(Ord. 313, passed 6-22-2010)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.83  FEES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Fees.  The permit fee for a private, public or semi-public pool shall
be as listed in the fee schedule of the Town of Lakeside. Each private, public
or semi-public pool shall require a separate permit.
   (B)   Failure to comply.  Failure to comply with any section of this
subchapter may result in the immediate closure of the pool and/or the
initiation of legal action.  Upon determination that the pool does not comply
with the provision of this subchapter, the Town Administrator shall notify the
certified pool operator of the existing violations. If the Town Administrator
determines that the condition of the pool is hazardous to the health or safety
of the swimmers or of the general public, the pool shall be closed. Signs shall
be posted at all entrances to the swimming pool and written notice shall be
given. Said signs shall be clearly visible to a reasonably observant person and
shall state, "Closed by the Town of Lakeside." A reinspection of the pool will
be conducted during the regular working hours of the Town of Lakeside at the
request of the certified pool operator. If compliance has been achieved, the
certified pool operator shall be notified that the pool may be opened. The
owner and certified pool operator shall be responsible for keeping the closed
sign visible at all times. It shall be a violation for the owner or operator to
allow use of the pool after the pool has been ordered closed, and the closed
sign has been posted by the Town Administrator.
   (C)   Violation of closure order.
      (1)   When the Town Administrator has ordered that a pool be closed due
to noncompliance with any provision of this subchapter, the owner of such pool
shall not knowingly allow the pool to be used for swimming, diving or bathing
purposes and shall immediately take every reasonable step to prevent the use of
such pool for such purposes. By way of example and without limiting such duty,
the owner shall immediately post notices reasonably likely to come to the
attention of potential users of the pool, advising of the closure and shall
immediately lock all gates and doorways in any fence or other enclosure
surrounding such pool.
      (2)   Use of the pool by an individual for swimming, diving, or bathing
purposes after the Town Administrator has ordered such pool to be closed shall
be deemed prima facie evidence that the owner of the pool has knowingly allowed
the pool to be used for such purposes.
   (D)   Regulations pertaining to pool areas, persons in pool areas and
employees.  A person and the certified pool operator commits an offense if that
person or operator:
      (1)   Allows an animal to enter or remain within the pool area or pool
enclosure of a public or semi-public pool;
      (2)   Has skin abrasions, open sores, skin disease, eye disease, nasal or
ear discharge, or a communicable disease and swims in a public or semi-public
pool;
      (3)   Works at a public or semi-public pool while infected with a
communicable disease;
      (4)   Alters or removes safety equipment from a public or semipublic pool
except in an emergency; or
      (5)   Carries glass within a public or semipublic pool area or enclosure.
   (E)   Enforcement responsibility.  The Town Administrator or his or her
authorized representative shall have enforcement responsibility for this
subchapter.
(Ord. 313, passed 6-22-2010)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 150.90  PURPOSE.
   Standards for controlling home occupations are set forth to minimize
annoyance and inconvenience to neighboring property owners, within residential
areas. These standards are intended to allow reasonable and comfortable
enjoyment of adjacent and nearby property by their owners and by occupants of
neighboring residential dwellings, while providing opportunities for the
pursuit of home-based businesses.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 150.91  SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to conduct a home occupation in the Town of
Lakeside within a district zoned for residential use as provided hereinafter
shall be required to register with the Town of Lakeside prior to conducting any
such business. Registration shall be made on forms established by the town and
available from the Town Secretary. It shall be unlawful for any person to
conduct a business operation of any form or nature from their home in any
residential zoned district in the Town of Lakeside without registering as here
provided.
   (B)   Home occupations shall be permitted as an accessory use in single-
family residential zoning districts provided that they comply with all
restrictions herein.
   (C)   The occupation shall produce no alteration or change in the character
or exterior appearance of the principal building from that of the residential
dwelling, and performance of the occupation activity shall not be visible from
the street.
   (D)   Such use shall be incidental and secondary to the use of the premises
for residential purposes, and shall not utilize floor area exceeding 20% of the
dwelling unit. In no case shall the floor area utilized for a home occupation
exceed 500 square feet.
   (E)   Activities are limited to the living portion of a house, or its
attached or detached garage. An accessory building cannot be used in
conjunction with a home based business.
   (F)   Not more than two patron, employee or business-related vehicles shall
be present at one time, and the proprietor shall provide adequate off-street
parking on the property where the use is located.
   (G)   One commercial vehicle, capacity of one ton or less (according to the
manufacturer's classification), may be used or parked (behind the front
building line) on the property in connection with the home occupation, but said
vehicle may not be parked in the street or within the front yard setback.
   (H)   The occupation activity shall not increase vehicular traffic flow
beyond what normally occurs within a residential district, and shall not
require regular and frequent deliveries by large delivery trucks or vehicles
with a rated capacity in excess of one and one-half tons, according to the
manufacturer's classification.
   (I)   There shall be no outside storage or outside display related to the
home occupation (one trailer less than 20 feet long parked in the driveway is
not considered outside storage).
   (J)   No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be employed on the
premises other than that which is customarily found in a home environment, and
that which is customarily associated with a hobby or a vocation which is
conducted solely for pleasure and not for profit or financial gain.
   (K)   The home occupation shall not generate noise, vibration, glare, fumes/
odors, heat or electrical interference beyond what normally occurs within a
residential district.
   (L)   The occupation shall not require the use of chemicals on the property
that are obnoxious or hazardous to the welfare of the neighborhood.
   (M)   The home occupation shall not involve the use of advertising signs or
window displays, or any other device that calls attention to the business use
of the premises through audio and/or visual means. Advertising on vehicles is
permitted.
   (N)   The occupation shall not offer a ready inventory of any commodity for
sale on the premises unless the commodity is made/assembled on-site (e.g., arts
and crafts items, handmade clothing and the like).
   (O)   The occupation shall not be harmful or detrimental to the health,
welfare and safety of the neighborhood, nor shall it interfere with the
comfortable enjoyment of life, property and recreation by residents of the
area.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-22-2010)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.92  APPLICABILITY OF OTHER REGULATIONS.
   Home occupations shall also be subject to any and all other provisions of
local, state and/or federal regulations and laws that govern such uses.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-22-2010) 
§ 150.93  USES ALLOWED AS HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Subject to provision of §
150.90, home occupations may include the following uses:
   (A)   Office facility of an accountant, architect, landscape architect,
attorney, engineer, consultant, insurance agent, realtor, broker, or similar
profession;
   (B)   Author, artist or sculptor;
   (C)   Dressmaker, seamstress or tailor;
   (D)   Music/dance teacher, or similar types of instruction; provided
instruction shall be limited to no more than six pupils at a time;
   (E)   Individual tutoring and home schooling;
   (F)   Millinery;
   (G)   Office facility of a minister, rabbi, priest or other clergyman;
   (H)   Home crafts, such as rug weaving, model making and the like;
   (I)   Office facility of a salesman, sales or manufacturer's representative,
etc. provided that no retail or wholesale transactions or provision of services
are personally and physically made on the premises;
   (J)   Repair shop for small electrical appliances, cameras, watches/clocks,
and other small items, provided that the items can be carried by one person
without using special equipment, and provided that the items are not equipped
with an internal combustion engine;
   (K)   Food preparation establishments such as cake making/decorating or
catering, provided that there is no on-premises consumption by customers, and
provided that all aspects of the business comply with all state and local
health regulations;
   (L)   Family homes that are registered in compliance with applicable state
laws, which are incorporated herein by reference (see definition in §
151.042 of the zoning code).
   (M)   Barber shop/beauty salon or manicure studio, provided that no more
than one customer is served at a tune; and
   (N)   Swimming lessons and water safety instruction, provided that such
instruction involves no more than six pupils at any one time.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-22-2010)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.94  USES PROHIBITED AS HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations shall not, in any event, be allowed to include the
following uses:
   (A)   Animal hospitals, or clinics, commercial stables, or kennels;
   (B)   Schooling or instruction, except swimming/water safety classes and
home schooling, with more than six pupils at a time;
   (C)   Restaurants or on-premises food or beverage (including private clubs)
consumption of any kind, except for limited food/meal consumption with the
operation of a licensed registered family home;
   (D)   Automobile, boat or trailer paint or repair shop; small engine or
motorcycle repair shop; welding shop; large household appliance repair shop; or
other similar type of business;
   (E)   Office facility for a doctor, dentist, veterinarian or other medical-
related profession;
   (F)   On-premises retail or wholesale sales of any kind, except for items
that are produced entirely on the premises in conformance with this subchapter,
and except for occasional garage sales;
   (G)   Commercial clothing laundering or cleaning;
   (H)   Mortuaries or funeral homes;
   (I)   Trailer, vehicle, tool or equipment rentals;
   (J)   Repair shops or services, except as specifically provided in §
150.93;
   (K)   Drapery or furniture upholstery shops;
   (L)   Antique, gift or specialty shops;
   (M)   Repair shops for any items having internal combustion engines;
   (N)   Any use that would be defined by the building code as an assembly,
factory/industrial, hazardous, institutional or mercantile occupancy.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-22-2010)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.95  HOME OCCUPATION USES NOT CLASSIFIED.
   Any use that is not either expressly allowed nor expressly prohibited by §§
150.93 or
150.94, respectively, is considered prohibited unless and until such use is
classified by amendment to this subchapter by the Town of Lakeside City
Council, subsequent to an affirmative recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 150.96  EFFECT ON EXISTING HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Any home occupation that was legally in existence at the effective
date of this subchapter and that is not in full conformity with the provisions
herein shall come into compliance within 90 days of the effective date of this
subchapter, including registration requirements as provided herein.
   (B)   Any home occupation that was legally in existence as of the effective
date of this subchapter and that conforms with (i.e., is not in violation of)
the provisions herein shall be hereby authorized to continue, so long as same
is registered with the town as provided herein.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
150.01 shall be deemed  guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed $2,000.  Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense. This penalty provision is cumulative of any and
all rights the town has to enforce §
150.01 through any lawful means, including legal action seeking injunctive or
other appropriate relief.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who obstructs, impedes, or
interferes with a representative of the town, with a representative of a town
department, with monitoring equipment, or with a person who has been ordered to
abate a situation pursuant to §
150.01 and who is lawfully engaged in the abatement is guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine as provided hereinabove.
      (3)   In addition to proceeding under authority of divisions (A)(1) and
(A)(2) above, the town is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil
remedies to which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other
ordinances against a person, firm, or corporation that remains in violation of
§
150.01.
   (C)   The owner of any structure who fails to post and maintain a street
number address as set out in §
150.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not more than $200.  Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed
a separate offense and punishable as same.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation or others violating any provision of
§
150.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, if convicted, shall be fined not
to exceed $100.  Every day that the violation continues shall constitute, and
be punishable as, a separate offense.  The town may also bring suit for
injunction against any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate or
threaten to violate any of the provisions of this section.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions of §
150.20, irrespective of whether or not the verbiage of each section hereof
contains the specific language that the violation or failure to comply is
unlawful and is an offense.  Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of §
150.20 or any of the provisions of a permit or license issued pursuant hereto,
or who shall fail to comply with the terms hereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in the sum not to exceed
$500, and the violation of each separate provision thereof shall be considered
a separate offense.  Each day’s continuance of a failure to comply herewith
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense for each of the days.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to violate or fail
to comply with any provisions of §§
150.80 through
150.83 irrespective of whether or not the verbiage of each section thereof
contains the specific language that such violation or failure to comply is
unlawful and is an offense. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of §§
150.80 through
150.83 or any of the provisions of a permit issued pursuant thereto, or who
shall fail to comply with the terms thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in the sum not to exceed $2000 and
the violation of each separate provision thereof shall be considered a separate
offense. Each day's continuance of a failure to comply herewith shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (G)   (1) Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions
of §§
150.90 through
150.96 for which no specific penalty is provided, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon final conviction thereof shall be fined in a sum of not
less than $50 nor more than $1,000 for each offense. Each day the violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate violation.
      (2)   (a)   Any person who shall violate any of the specific provisions
of §§
150.90 through
150.96 or any of the provisions of a permit issued pursuant thereto, or who
shall fail to comply with the terms thereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall, on conviction thereof, be fined in accordance with Texas law and the
violation of each separate provision thereof shall be considered a separate
offense.
         (b)   Each day's continuance of a failure to comply therewith shall
constitute a separable and distinct offense for each of said days.
         (c)   The town is not restricted to the imposition of fines as
provided herein as its only means of enforcement of §§
150.90 through
150.96.  The town may enforce the terms of §§
150.90 through
150.96 through judicial process as well, including, but not limited to,
injunctive relief. The use of one form of enforcement does not stop or prohibit
the town from using other forms of enforcement as well.
      (3)   Upon presentation of proper credentials, the Building Official or
his or her duly authorized representative may enter at reasonable times, any
buildings, structures, or premises in the Town of Lakeside to perform any
duties imposed upon him or her by §§
150.90 through
150.96.
(Ord. 22, passed 5-2-1961; Ord. 91, passed 4-8-1980; Ord. 104, passed 3-6-1984;
Ord. 178, passed 11-9-1995; Ord. 199, passed 11-12-1998; Ord. 212, passed 1-13-
2000; Ord. 272, passed 12-15-2005; Ord. 273, passed 2-9-2006; Ord. 313, passed
6-22-2010; Ord. 314, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 377, passed 10-9-2014)
CHAPTER 151:  ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Exemption of the town
   
151.003   Purpose
   
151.004   Establishment of districts
   
151.005   Zoning district map
   
151.006   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
151.007   Zoning annexed territory
   
151.008   Application of district regulations
   
151.009   Building permits and certificates of occupancy
   
151.010   Platting of property not properly zoned
   
151.011   Pre-existing uses, lots, and structures
Permitted Uses
   
151.012   Permitted use table
   
151.013   Special conditions for listed uses
   
151.014   Classification of new and unlisted uses
Zoning Districts
   
151.015   R1 Single-Family District
   
151.016   R2 Single-Family Residential District
   
151.017   MF Multifamily Residential District
   
151.018   MH HUD Code Manufactured Housing Residential District
   
151.019   C General Commercial District
   
151.020   PD Planned Development District
Supplementary Regulations
   
151.021   Site plan requirements
   
151.022   Specific use permits
   
151.023   General height requirements
   
151.024   General yard requirements
   
151.024.01   Landscape requirements
   
151.025   Accessory buildings/structures, detached garages, RV buildings in
residential districts
   
151.025.01      Carports
   
151.026   Temporary uses and special events
   
151.027   Off-street parking and loading requirements
   
151.028   Screening devices and fence regulations
   
151.029   Wireless communication facilities
   
151.030   Non-conforming uses, lots, and structures
   
151.031   Outdoor lighting
   
151.032   Cargo containers
Administration
   
151.033   Administration and enforcement
   
151.034   Completion of buildings under construction
   
151.035   Zoning Board of Adjustment
   
151.036   Duties of Town Council
   
151.037   Fee schedule
   
151.038   Amendments
   
151.039   Violations and penalties
   
151.040   Planning and Zoning Commission
Definitions
   
151.041   Rules for words and phrases
   
151.042   Definitions
Signage
   
151.050   Purpose
   
151.051   Definitions
   
151.052   Sign permit and fees
   
151.053   Area of sign permitted
   
151.054   Temporary signs
   
151.055   Design and construction
   
151.056   Obnoxious signs exploiting sex
   
151.057   Enforcement
   
151.058   Abatement of nonconforming signs
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention and protection, see
Ch. 94
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited and referred to as the
"Zoning Ordinance of the Town of Lakeside," which includes narrative
regulations and map.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.002  EXEMPTION OF THE TOWN.
   The town is exempt from any and all regulation contained herein, upon
approval of the town.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.003  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to zone the Town of Lakeside into districts
in accordance with a Comprehensive Plan for the purpose of promoting health,
safety, morals, and the general welfare of the public. The regulations and
districts herein established have been designated to lessen congestion in the
streets; to provide safety from fire, panic, and other dangers; to provide
adequate light and air, to prevent the overcrowding of land, to avoid undue
concentration of populations, and to provide and facilitate provisions for
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks, and other public requirements.
The districts have been established with reasonable consideration of the
character of the district and its peculiar suitability for the particular uses,
and with the view of conserving the value of buildings and encouraging the most
appropriate use of land throughout the community. Where this chapter imposes a
greater restriction upon land, buildings, or structures than is imposed or
required by other ordinances, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this
chapter shall govern. Where other ordinances impose greater restrictions than
are imposed herein, the provisions of those other ordinances shall govern. All
construction shall be governed by applicable sections of the latest
publications of the International Conference of Building Officials, Uniform
Building Code.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.004  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The town is hereby divided into five straight zoned districts and one
special district. The use, height, and development regulations as established
are uniform in each district. The districts established herein shall be known
as follows:
   ABBREVIATED DESIGNATION      STRAIGHT ZONED DISTRICTS
         R1                Single-Family District
         R2                Single-Family Residential District
         MF                Multifamily Residential District
         MH                HUD Code Manufactured Housing Residential District
         C               General Commercial District
                     SPECIAL DISTRICTS
         PD               Planned Development District
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.005  ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   The Town of Lakeside is hereby divided into the zones or districts, as shown
on the Official Zoning Map, which, together with all explanatory matter
thereon, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
chapter. The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor and attested to by the Town Secretary.
   (A)   Changes.  If, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
changes are made in the district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the
Official Zoning Map, the changes shall be entered on the Official Zoning Map
promptly after the amendment has been approved by the Town Council.
   (B)   Approval by Council.  Approved zoning changes shall be entered on the
Official Zoning Map by the Town Planning and Zoning Commission and each change
shall be identified on the map with the date and number of the ordinance making
the change. No amendment to this chapter which involves matter portrayed on the
official Zoning Map shall become effective until after the ordinance has been
finally approved by the Town Council.
   (C)   Unauthorized changes.  No change of any nature shall be made on the
Official Zoning Map or matter shown thereon except in conformity with the
provisions set forth in this chapter. Unauthorized changes of any kind, by any
person or persons, shall be considered a violation of this chapter and
punishable hereunder.
   (D)   Officially filed.  The Official Zoning Map shall be located in the
office of the Town Secretary, and shall be the final authority as to the
current zoning status of land and water areas, building, and other structures
in the town. The Official Zoning Map shall be available to the public at all
hours when the Town Hall is open to the public.
   (E)   Replacement.  In the event the Official Zoning Map becomes damaged,
destroyed, lost, or difficult to interpret because of the nature and/or number
of changes and additions, the Town Council may, by resolution, adopt a new
Official Zoning Map, which shall supersede the prior Official Zoning Map. The
new Official Zoning Map may correct drafting or other errors or omissions in
the prior Official Zoning Map, but no such correction shall have the effect of
amending the Official Zoning Map or any subsequent amendment thereof. The new
Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor, attested
by the Town Secretary.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.006  RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Uncertainty or conflicts in district.
   (A)   Centerlines.  Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such
centerlines.
   (B)   Lot lines.  Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted
lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   Town limits.  Boundaries indicated as approximately following town
limits shall be construed as following town limits.
   (D)   Railroads.  Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be
construed to be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Shorelines.  Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be
construed to follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the
shoreline shall be construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries
indicated as approximately following the centerlines of streams, drainage
courses, creeks, canals, lakes, or other bodies of water shall be construed to
follow such centerlines.
   (F)   Extensions of features. Boundaries indicated as parallel to or
extensions of features indicated in divisions (A) through (B) above shall be so
construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map
shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   (G)   Vacated public way. Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is
vacated by official action of the Town Council, the zoning district line
adjoining each side of the street, alley, or other public way shall be
automatically extended to the centerline of the vacated street, alley, or way,
and all area so involved shall be subject to regulations of the extended
districts.
   (H)   Variance of physical features and Official Zoning Map.  Where physical
or cultural features existing on the ground are at variance with those shown on
the Official Zoning Map or when there arises a question as to how or whether a
parcel of property is zoned and such question cannot be resolved by the
application of divisions (A) through (G) above, the property shall be
considered as classified in the R1 District, in the same manner as provided for
newly annexed territory, and the issuance of a building permit and the
determination of zoning shall be in accordance with the provisions provided in
§
151.007.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.007  ZONING ANNEXED TERRITORY.
   (A)   Classification of newly annexed territory.  All territory which
hereafter is annexed to the town shall automatically be considered to be in the
R1 District. The procedure for establishing zoning on annexed territory shall
conform to the procedure established by state law for the adoption of original
zoning regulations.
   (B)   Alternative zoning of newly annexed territory.  The Town Council or
petitioners for annexation may request alternative zoning classifications in an
area being considered for annexation. The Town Council may hold public hearings
on annexation and zoning simultaneously, and may approve the zoning of a newly
annexed area at the time of annexation.
   (C)   Constructions in newly annexed territory.  No person shall erect,
construct, or proceed or continue with the erection or construction of any
building or structure, add to any building or structure, or cause the same to
be done in any newly annexed territory without first applying for and obtaining
a building permit or certificate of occupancy from the building official. No
permit for construction of a building or use of land shall be issued by the
building official other than a permit which will allow the construction of a
building permitted in the R1 District.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.008  APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Conformance required.  No building, structure, or land shall hereafter
be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall
hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally
altered unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for
the district in which it is located.
   (B)   Provisions or chapter are minimum requirements.  In their
interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall be
construed to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, convenience, comfort, morals, and general welfare. Wherever
this chapter imposes a greater restriction than imposed by other ordinances,
laws, or regulations, the provisions of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.009  BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Building permit required.  No building or other structure shall be
erected, moved, added to, or structurally altered without a building permit
issued by the administrative official. No building permit shall be issued for
any building or structure except in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.  No permit for the construction of a building or buildings upon any
land shall be issued until a building site has been created by the land being a
platted lot appearing on a plat properly approved by the town and filed in the
records of the County Clerk of Tarrant County.
      (1)   Application for building permit.  All applications for building
permits shall be accompanied by plans in triplicate, drawn to scale, showing
the actual dimensions and shape of the lot to be built upon; the exact sizes
and locations on the lot of buildings already existing, if any; and the
location and dimensions of the proposed building or alteration. The application
shall include such other information as lawfully may be required by the
administrative official, including existing or proposed building or alteration;
existing or proposed uses of the building and land; housekeeping units or
rental units the building is designed to accommodate; conditions existing on
the lot; and such other matters as may be necessary to determine conformance
with, and provide for the enforcement of, this chapter.  One copy of the plans
shall be returned to the applicant by the administrative official, that has
markings on the copy either as approved or disapproved and attested to same by
his or her signature on such copy. The original and one copy of the plans,
similarly marked, shall be retained by the administrative official.
      (2)   Expiration of building permit.  If the work described in any
building permit has not begun within six calendar months from the date of
issuance thereof, said permit shall expire, and work shall not proceed until a
new building permit has been obtained.
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy required.  It shall be unlawful to use or
occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any non-residential building or
premises, or both, or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted or wholly or partly altered or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the administrative official
stating that the proposed use of the principal building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (1)    No permit for erection, alteration, moving or structural repair of
any non-residential building shall be issued until an application has been made
for a certificate of occupancy, and the certificate shall be issued in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter upon completion of the work.
      (2)   A temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued by the
administrative official for a period not exceeding six months during
alterations or partial occupancy of a building pending its completion, provided
that said temporary certificate may include such conditions and safeguards as
will protect the safety of the occupants and the public.
      (3)   The administrative official shall maintain a public record of all
certificates of occupancy.
      (4)   Failure to obtain a certificate of occupancy shall be a violation
of this chapter and punishable under §
151.039.
   (C)   Conformance required.  Building permits or certificates of occupancy
issued on the basis of plans and applications approved by the administrative
official authorize only the use, arrangement and construction set forth in such
approved plans and applications, and no other use, arrangement or construction.
Use, arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized shall be
deemed violation of this chapter, and punishable as provided by §
151.039.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.010  PLATTING OF PROPERTY NOT PROPERLY ZONED.
   The Town Council shall not approve any plat until the area covered by the
proposed plat is or shall be zoned to the proper zoning classification by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.011  PRE-EXISTING USES, LOTS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Pre-existing uses.  Uses, that are in existence prior to the effective
date of this chapter shall be deemed to be legal non-conforming uses.
   (B)   Pre-existing lots.  Lots and parcels of land, that are in existence
prior to the effective date of this chapter and do not meet the requirements
provided herein, shall be deemed to be legal non-conforming lots and shall be
exempt from the lot area requirements of the zoning districts. Lots or parcels
having existing structures thereon prior to the effective date of this chapter
shall be exempt from the front, rear, and side yard setback requirements for
all structures located thereon at that date. However, new construction for
structures located thereon after the effective date of this chapter shall be
required to meet the setback requirements of the respective district applicable
to that lot.
   (C)   Pre-existing structures.  Structures, that are in existence prior to
the effective date of this chapter and do not meet the requirements provided
herein, shall be deemed to be legal non-conforming structures and shall be
exempt from the area and height requirements of the zoning districts. Said
structures shall be permitted to be expanded, repaired, and remodeled without
meeting the area requirements for structures. However, said structures are not
exempted from the height regulations for new construction after the effective
date of this chapter that exceeds the regulations provided in the respective
district applicable to the property on which that structure is located.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
PERMITTED USES
§ 151.012  PERMITTED USE TABLE.
   (A)   Land Use Table legend.  The following table presents the zoning
district classifications and the permitted uses within those classifications. 
Uses are listed as being permitted, permitted by special use permit, and
prohibitions are signified by blank cells.  Conditions are provided in §
151.013.  Any use not expressly authorized and permitted herein is expressly
prohibited.
      (1)   P = Permitted Use;
      (2)   S = Specific Use Permit;
      (3)   Blank = Prohibited Use.
   (B)   Land Use Table.
Town of Lakeside Land Use Table
   P = Permitted Use   S = Specific Use Permit      Blank = Prohibited
Use
Residential                           Non-Residential Special Conditions
                 Land Use Designation                 (See §
   R-1 R-2 MF MH                      C               151.013)
Town of Lakeside Land Use Table
   P = Permitted Use   S = Specific Use Permit      Blank = Prohibited Use
Residential                                                    Non-
                                                               Residential Special Conditions
      R- R-       Land Use Designation                                     (See §
      1  2  MF MH                                              C           151.013)

   Residential Uses
      S           Agricultural use                                         b
                  Bed and breakfast                            S           b, g, r, t
            S     Boarding house                                           b
      S  S        Caretaker, guard or servant residence or     S           b
                  garage apartment
      S  S        Dwelling, guesthouse                                     b
            P     Convent, rectory, monastery
            P     Dwelling, assisted living facility
               P  Dwelling, HUD Code manufactured home
      P  P  P  P  Dwelling, industrialized housing
                  Dwelling, mobile home
            P     Dwelling, multifamily
            P  P  Dwelling, single-family attached
      P  P     P  Dwelling, single-family detached
            P     Dwelling, two-family
      P  P  P  P  Group home for the disabled or disadvantaged
               P  Manufactured housing park or subdivision
   Public, Civic and Utility Uses
                  Animal pound, shelter
            S     Assembly hall                                S           b
      S  S  S  S  Athletic field and play field, public                    b
                  Cemetery, mausoleum, crematorium
      S  S  P  S  Community center                             P           b
                  Electrical generating station
      P  P  P  P  Electrical transmission line                 P
                  Garage, public                               P
      P  P  P  P  Gas regulator station                        P
                  Golf course, public
      P  P  P  P  Governmental administration facility         P
            S     Library                                      P           b
                  Lodge, fraternal, sorority and clubs         P
                  Museum                                       P
      P  P  P  P  Park                                         P
                  Philanthropic and/or charitable use          P
                  Public maintenance building, storage yard    P
      P  P  P  P  Public safety facility, police and fire      P
      P  P  P  P  Public utility                               P
      P  P  P  P  Religious institution                        P           b
      P  P  P  P  Telephone exchange, switching or relay       P
   Educational Uses
                  School, business college                     P
                  School, college or university                S           b
                  School, commercial instruction               P
                  School, commercial trade                     P
      P  P  P  P  School, home
      S  S  S  S  School, home day
                  School, institution, rehabilitation and      P
                  training center
      P  P  P  P  School, primary or secondary                 P           a
                  School, vocational                           P           a
   Entertainment
                  Amusement center, indoor                     S           b
                  Amusement center, outdoor                    S           b
                  Athletic field and play field, commercial    S           b
                  Auditorium                                   S           b
                  Campground and related facilities
                  Commercial assembly facility                 S           b, g, t
      S  S  S  S  Country club                                 P           b
                  Golf course, driving range
                  Golf course, miniature                       S           b
                  Golf course, private
                  Go Cart track and other vehicular track or 
                  facility
                  Gymnasium                                    S           b
                  Private club                                 P
                  Recreational ranch or farm
                  Rodeo ground/fair ground
                  RV park (short term)                         S           b, g, s
                  Skating rink, indoor                         S           b
                  Stable, commercial
      P           Stable, private                                          h
                  Swimming pool/water park, commercial         S           b
                  Shooting range, indoor                       P           a
                  Shooting range, outdoor
                  Theater, indoor motion picture               P
   Medical Uses
                  Clinic                                       P
                  Hospital                                     P           a
                  Laboratory, medical and/or dental            P
                  Medical, dental and optical retail sales     P
                  Medical, dental office                       P
                  Medical equipment sales, rental and leasing  P
                  service
            S     Nursing home                                 P           b
                  Optician shop                                P
                  Veterinary hospital with outside pens
                  Veterinary hospital without outside pens     S           b
                  Veterinary office, small animal practice     P
                  Veterinary office, large animal practice
   Automotive Uses
                  Auto auction
                  Auto car wash                                S           a, g
                  Auto impound lot/wrecker business
                  Auto paint and body shop
                  Auto parts and accessory sales               P
                  Auto rental (car and truck)                  S           b
                  Auto repair garage
                  Auto sales, new and used
                  Auto service station                         S           b, k, l
                  Automotive oil change and lubrication shop   S           b, l
                  Boat and marine sales and service            S           b, l, m
                  Bus, train and taxi station or terminal
                  Farm machinery and implement sales and
                  service
                  Garage, repair
                  Heliport
                  Helistop
                  Motor freight terminal
                  Motor home, recreational vehicle and camper  S           b, l, m
                  sales and service
                  Motorcycle sales and service                 S           b, l, m
                  Moving truck and trailer rental              S           b, m
                  Park and ride lots                           P
                  Parking lot, commercial (auto)
                  Parking lot, commercial (truck)
                  Recreational vehicle storage (commercial)    S           b, k, m
   Professional Uses
                  Bank, savings and loan association,          P
                  financial institution
                  Office, business                             P
                  Office, professional                         P
                  Office, real estate development tract or     S           b
                  field office
   Commercial, Retail and Service Uses
                  Accessory building sales with display        S           b, m
                  Ambulance service
                  Animal grooming                              P
                  Antique shop                                 P           c, q
                  Apparel alteration and repair or tailor shop P
                  Appliance repair, household                  P           c, q
                  Art gallery                                  P
                  Arts, crafts and hobby shop                  P
                  Auction house, indoor                        P
                  Bakery, retail confectionary                 P
                  Bakery, wholesale candy                      P
                  Barbershop, beauty salon, other personal     P
                  shop
                  Bicycle sales and repairs                    P
                  Book store                                   P
                  Building material sales                      P           a, m, q
                  Cabinet and/or upholstery shop               P           q
                  Catering service                             P
                  Collectibles shop                            P           q
                  Coin and stamp shop                          P
                  Contractor, no outside storage permitted     P
                  Contractor, outside storage permitted        S           b, g, k, m
                  Contractor storage or equipment yard
                  Convenience store                            P
                  Copy shop                                    P
                  Cosmetic tattoo establishment                P
                  Day care center, adult                       P           j
                  Day care center, child                       P           j
                  Department store                             P           g, q
                  Exterminating service                        S           b
                  Factory outlet, retail or wholesale store    P           a, g, q
                  Farmers market, outdoor                      S           b, g
                  Feed and farm supply store                   S           b, m
                  Flea market
                  Floor covering store                         P
                  Florist shop                                 P
                  Funeral home, mortuary                       P
                  Furniture, fixture and appliance store       P           q
                  Gift shop                                    P
                  Greenhouse or plant nursery                  S           q
                  Grocery store                                P           g
                  Gun shop sales and service                   S           a
                  Hardware store                               P           g, q
                  Health club, recreational facility           P
                  Hearing aid sales and service                P
      P  P  P  P  Hobby studio, private
                  Hotel, motel                                 P
                  Household furnishing and fixtures store      P
                  Kennel                                       S           b, i
                  Landscape service                            S           b, q
                  Laundry, dry cleaning full service           S           b
                  Laundry, dry cleaning pickup and receiving   P
                  station
                  Laundry, dry cleaning self service           P
                  Lithography or print shop
                  Locksmith shop                               P
                  Lube center                                  P
                  Machinery sales or repair                    S           b, c, k, m
                  Manufactured or industrialized home sales or
                  rental
                  Meat market                                  P
                  Music store                                  P
                  Office machine sales and service             P           q
                  Office supply store                          P
                  Optical exam service and product sales       P
                  Paint and wallcovering stores                P
                  Pawn shop                                    P
                  Pet shop                                     P
                  Pharmacy                                     P
                  Photographic equipment sales and service     P
                  Photographic service                         P
                  Radio, television studio                     P           a, n
                  Recycling collection center
                  Rental service with inside storage           P
                  Rental service with outside storage          S           b, m
                  Rental store                                 S           b, m
                  Rental yard, commercial and heavy equipment
                  Resale/consignment store                     P
                  Restaurant                                   P
                  Restaurant, drive-in/drive-thru              P
                  Restaurant, refreshment stand (temporary or  S           b, f
                  seasonal)
                  Sexually oriented business                               o
                  Shoe repair                                  P
                  Sign shop, painted or silk-screened          P
                  Smoke and tobacco shop                       S           p
                  Sporting goods, uniforms, and trophy sales   P
                  Studio                                       P
                  Stone monument sales                         S           b, q
                  Storage and display of round or square bales S
                  of hay for the purpose of immediate sale
                  Tanning salon                                P
                  Tattoo parlor/body piercing studio
                  Taxidermist studio                           P
                  Taxidermist shop                             S           b
                  Tire sales and service                       P
                  Upholstery shop—auto and furnishings       S
                  Video/game rental                            P
                  Watch and/or jewelry sales and repair        P
                  Wedding or special event venue               S           b
   Manufacturing and Industrial Uses
               Assembly plant
                  Bottling works
                  Building materials manufacturing
                  Dairy processing
                  Electronics manufacturing
                  Laundry, dry cleaning and dyeing plant
                  Machine shop
                  Manufacturing facility (light)               S           b, g
                  Meat product processing
                  Mini-warehouse                               S           b, c, k
                  Pharmaceutical plant
                  Plastic products manufacturing
                  Wireless transmission or receiving facility  (As regulated by §
                                                               151.030)
                  Salvage yard
                  Stockyard
                  Storage and warehousing establishment        S           b, c, g, k
                  Storage yard
                  Textile manufacturing
                  Welding or machine shop                      S           b, l, m
   Accessory Uses
      P  P  P  P  Accessory building
      P  P  P  P  Carport, residential
                  Christmas tree sales                         P           f
      P  P  P  P  Home occupation                                          (see §§ 150.90 -
                                                                           150.96)
      P  P  P  P  Temporary construction building              P           d
      P  P  P  P  Utility buildings and structures             P
 
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 319, passed 12-9-2010; Ord. 323, passed 4-14-
2011; Ord. 341, passed 7-12-2012)
§ 151.013  SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR LISTED USES.
   Description of Land Use Table conditions and special regulations.  The
following describe conditions and special regulations for uses listed in the §
151.012.  Additional requirements may be added to these listed herein by the
Town Council as deemed necessary to protect the health, safety, and general
welfare of the citizens of Lakeside. No construction or occupancy shall
commence for any permitted use until the conditions herein stated or required
by the Town Council have been met.
   a.   A site plan will be required in accordance with §
151.021.
   b.   A site plan, in accordance with §
151.021 will only be required in districts which require a specific use permit.
   c.   All storage shall be within completely enclosed buildings or
effectively screened with screening not less than six feet nor more than eight
feet in height, provided no storage located within 50 feet of such screening
shall exceed the maximum height of such screening.
   d.   Temporary buildings for construction purposes for a period not to
exceed the duration of such construction.
   e.   May not be located within 300 feet of any property zoned for a
residential use or any property which is occupied by a church, public school,
day care or nursing home. The measurement of distance shall be measured as a
radius from the edge of the property line.
   f.   Permitted on a temporary basis only, in accordance with §
151.026.
   g.   All outdoor lighting, including parking lot lighting, shall be directed
away from any property zoned or developed for residential uses.
   h.   Any proposed stable or barn must be set back 100 feet from the property
line. Only animals permitted within the corporate limits by the Town Code will
be permitted on site.
   i.   Pens, outdoor kennels, or animal runs must be located 300 feet from any
residentially zoned property.
   j.   A copy of the state certification of licensing or registration as
described in Tex. Human Resources Code, § 42.052 must be provided to the town.
   k.   Shall not be used for the storage of wrecked vehicles, or the
dismantling of vehicles, or the storage of vehicle parts.
   l.   All vehicles being stored for repair shall be screened from all public
rights-of-way.
   m.   All equipment shall be stored and displayed on a hard all weather
surface.
   n.   Reserved
   o.   As regulated by
Chapter 115 of the Town Code.
   p.    Smoke and tobacco shops shall meet the following standards:
      1.   Shall post a sign stating "No Minors Permitted Unless with a
Parent."
      2.   Must derive annual gross revenues of at least 50% from the sale of
tobacco products and smoking accessories.
      3.   Smoking accessories or paraphernalia shall not include water pipes,
carburetion tubes, carburetion masks, clips or devices intended to hold burning
material such as marijuana, cocaine spoons, cocaine vials, chamber pipes,
electric pipes, air-driven pipes, chillums, bongs, and ice pipes or chillers.
   q.   With the exception of live plant material, all outside display of
equipment and building material shall be screened from public view.
   r.   Bed and breakfast facilities shall meet the following criteria:
      1.   One parking space per bedroom unit shall be required in addition to
requirements for other uses such as restaurant and retail sales floor area.
      2.   Food service will be limited to overnight guests of the bed and
breakfast establishment and may or may not be prepared on-site.
      3.   A permanent, wired, smoke alarm system meeting all city codes must
be installed.
   s.   RV park (short term) shall meet the following criteria:
      1.   Length of stay may not exceed 90 days; however, one extension of 90
days may be provided by the Town Administrator.
      2.   The Town Administrator may defer the decision for an extension to
the Town Council upon his or her discretion. In no event shall the length of
stay exceed 180 days in any consecutive 12-month period.
      3.   A permanent caretaker residence may be located on site but may not
be a manufactured home unless approved by the City Council, upon recommendation
of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   t.   Shall meet all of the requirements for supplemental district
regulations as non-residential/commercial use.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 319, passed 12-9-2010)
§ 151.014  CLASSIFICATION OF NEW AND UNLISTED USES.
   It is recognized that new types of land use may develop and forms of land
use not anticipated herein may seek to locate in the town. In order to provide
for such changes and contingencies, a determination as to the appropriate
classification of any new or unlisted form of land use not listed in division
(B) Land Use Table of §
151.012 Permitted Use Table, shall be made as follows:
   (A)   Administrative official action.  The administrative official shall
refer the question concerning any new or unlisted use to the Town Council.
Council will determine if a requested use falls under an existing use in the
table or if the use should not be permitted. If the use does qualify to be
listed under an existing use already in the table, Council will direct staff to
accommodate the new and unlisted use. If Council desires that the use be added
to or excluded from the Land Use Table, the use is referred to the Planning and
Zoning Commission with instructions to make an interpretation as to the
property zoning classification into which such use should be placed, and to
amend the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission
will make an interpretation as to the proper zoning classification into which
the use should be placed. The use interpretation question shall be determined
as to the nature of the use and whether it involves dwelling activity; sales;
processing; type of product, storage and the amount and nature thereof (i.e.,
enclosed or open storage); anticipated employment; transportation requirements;
the general degree of noise, odor, fumes, dust, toxic material and vibration
likely to be generated, if any; and the general requirements for public
utilities such as water and sanitary sewer. The Planning and Zoning Commission
will prepare a recommendation to Council defining the use, the appropriate
zoning classification for the use, if a specific use permit is required, and if
special conditions apply.
   (C)   Notice of Planning and Zoning Commission hearing. Administrative staff
will advertise for a Planning and Zoning Commission public hearing, to be held
at the next Planning and Zoning Commission meeting, at least 15 days in advance
of the meeting and will also post the public hearing notice according to law.
   (D)   Hearing; recommendation of Planning and Zoning Commission. The
required public hearing will be held, and the Planning and Zoning Commission
will take action to consider approving the final recommendation for the use.
Their recommendation will be forwarded to Council for their consideration of
approval.
   (E)   Notice of City Council hearing. Administrative staff will advertise
for a City Council public hearing, to be held at the next Council meeting, at
least 15 days in advance of the meeting and will also post the public hearing
notice according to law.
   (F)   Hearing; final action of City Council. The required public hearing
will be held, and the City Council will consider the Planning and Zoning
Commission recommendation regarding the use and take final action to amend
division (B) Land Use Table of §
151.012 Permitted Use Table.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 340, passed 7-12-2012)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 151.015  R1 SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose of District.  The purpose of the R1 Single-Family District is
to provide for compatible land, building, and structure uses primarily oriented
to low density residential estate purposes, select agricultural uses, and open
space uses. The R1 District is intended to serve as a transitional element
between agricultural activities and those of higher density development.  Low
density detached, single-family residential dwellings and estate development,
along with limited agricultural uses, comprise the principal elements of the R1
District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.  Uses in the R1 Single-Family District shall be in
accordance with §
151.012.
   (C)   Density, area, yard, height, and lot coverage requirements.  The
requirements regulating the minimum lot size, minimum yard size (front, side,
and rear), maximum building height (stories and feet), and maximum lot
coverage, and minimum floor area, as it pertains to this District, shall
conform with the provisions provided in the density, area, yard, height, and
lot coverage requirements for the R1 Single-Family District in the table below.
R1 Single-Family District
Area Requirements
R1 Single-Family District
Area Requirements
Minimum lot area             15,000 sq. feet
Minimum lot width            85 feet
Minimum lot depth            100 feet
Minimum front yard           25 feet
Minimum side yard (interior) 10 feet on one side, and 15 feet on the other side
Minimum side yard (street)   20 feet
Minimum rear yard            10 feet
Maximum lot coverage         50%
Maximum building height      35 feet
Minimum floor area           1,500 sq. feet ground floor
 
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading requirements.  Off-street parking and
loading requirements shall conform to the provisions of §
151.027.
   (E)   Accessory building and structure regulations.  Area regulations for
accessory buildings or accessory structures shall be in compliance with §
151.025.
   (F)   Masonry exterior requirements.  All principal buildings and structures
shall be of 85% masonry exterior construction. Masonry exterior construction
for accessory buildings and structures shall be regulated according to §
151.025.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 335, passed 5-23-2012)
§ 151.016  R2 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.The purpose of the R2 Single-Family Residential District is to
provide for compatible land, building, and structure uses primarily oriented to
low density residential purposes and open space uses.  It is the intent of the
R2 District to recognize the existence of small lot conventional single-family
development which presently exists in the town.
   (B)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted in the R2 Single-Family Residential
District shall be in accordance with §
151.012.
   (C)   Density, area, yard, height, and lot coverage requirements. The
requirements regulating the maximum permissible residential density, minimum
lot size, minimum yard sizes, maximum building height, and maximum percent of
lot coverage by buildings, as pertains to the R2 Single-Family Residential
District shall conform with the provisions provided in the area requirements
for the R2  District table.
R2 Single-Family Residential District
Area Requirements
R2 Single-Family Residential District
Area Requirements
Minimum lot area             9,000 sq. feet
Minimum lot width            70 feet
Minimum lot depth            100 feet
Minimum front yard           25 feet
Minimum side yard (interior) 10 feet on one side, and 15 feet on the other side
Minimum side yard (street)   20 feet
Minimum rear yard            10 feet
Maximum building height      35 feet
Minimum dwelling size        1,300 sq. feet
 
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading requirements.  Off-street parking
requirements pertaining to sues allowed in the R2 Single-Family Residential
District shall conform to the provisions of §
151.027.
   (E)   Accessory building and structure regulations.  Area regulations for
accessory buildings or accessory structures shall be in compliance with §
151.025.
   (F)   Masonry exterior requirements.  All principal buildings and structures
shall be of 85% masonry exterior construction. Masonry exterior construction
for accessory buildings and structures shall be regulated according to §
151.025.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 335, passed 5-23-2012)
§ 151.017  MF MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of the MF Multifamily Residential District is to
provide for compatible land, building, and structure uses primarily oriented to
high density multifamily residential purposes, open space uses, and associated
uses. The MF District is intended to serve as a transitional element between
lower density and more intense nonresidential land uses, and is most
appropriately located near the intersections of major thoroughfares. Apartment
buildings and condominiums comprise the principal elements of the MF District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.  Uses permitted in the MF Multifamily District shall
be in accordance with §
151.012.
   (C)   Density, area, yard, height, and lot coverage requirements.   The
requirements regulating the maximum permissible residential density, minimum
lot size, minimum yard sizes, maximum building height, and maximum percent of
lot coverage by buildings, as pertains to the MF District, shall conform to the
provisions provided in the area requirements for the MF District table below.
MF Multifamily Residential District
Area Requirements
MF Multifamily Residential District
Area Requirements
Maximum density                       18.0 (d.u./acre)*
Minimum lot width                     100 feet
Minimum lot depth                     100 feet
Minimum front yard                    30 feet
Minimum side yard                     10 feet
Minimum side yard adjacent to street  25 feet
(corner lot)
Minimum side and rear yard (interior) 15 feet from single story MF building
                                      30 feet from two story MF building
Maximum building height               35 feet
                                      1 bedroom unit:     860 sq. feet
Minimum dwelling size                 2 bedroom unit:   1,150 sq. feet
                                      3 bedroom unit:   1,450 sq. feet
                                      4 bedroom unit:   1,800 sq. feet
* d.u. = dwelling unit
 
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading requirements.  Off-street parking and
loading requirements pertaining to uses allowed in the MF District shall
conform to the provisions of §
151.027.  In addition, the following shall apply:
      (1)   All parking shall meet the requirements of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA). Parking areas shall be paved with concrete and graded
to drain appropriately.
      (2)   Parking of recreational vehicles is regulated according to §
151.025 of the Town Code.
      (3)   Semi-tractor trucks are prohibited from parking overnight.
      (4)   Carports shall be regulated according to §
151.025.01 of the Town Code.
      (5)   All required parking shall be covered parking and shall be
architecturally compatible with the main structures in the project.
      (6)   A minimum of 10% of all required parking shall be designated as
guest parking and shall be clearly marked as reserved for guests and shall be
in an area providing guest with unrestricted access to the guest parking
spaces.
      (7)   Runs of parking spaces shall be limited to a maximum of 12 spaces
without a landscaped island. However, up to 16 spaces may be permitted in
situations where it is required to save existing trees.
   (E)   Architectural features.  Varied roof lines and/or heights shall be
used to reduce the appearance of the mass of buildings which exceed two stories
in height.
      (1)   Techniques, such as varied set-backs, bay windows, balconies, and
changes in material, color and texture, shall be used to articulate facades and
side wall elevations. Where rear walls are visible from a public street,
similar techniques shall be used.
      (2)   Flat roof design is prohibited. Gabled roofs or hipped roofs shall
have a minimum pitch of 5:12.
      (3)   Each structure shall contain a transparent glass window or windows
with an aggregate area of at least 20% of the front facade of that unit.
      (4)   All units shall have a minimum of nine-foot ceiling in the living
areas, not including closets and storage spaces.
   (F)   Privacy.  Privacy features between buildings shall include the
following:
      (1)   Windows, balconies or similar openings above the first story shall
be oriented so as not to have a direct line-of-sight into adjacent units within
the project.
      (2)   Units above the first story shall be designed so that they do not
look directly onto private patios or backyards of adjoining residential
property.
      (3)   Landscaping shall be used to aid in privacy screening.
   (G)   Exterior fire resistant construction.  As of the effective date of
this chapter, exterior fire resistant construction shall be required on all
residential building structures hereafter constructed, erected, reconstructed,
enlarged or moved onto any lot or parcel within the town.  Exterior fire
resistant construction shall mean and consist of a minimum of 50% of the total
ground floor exterior wall surface (exclusive of opening for light, ventilation
and access) of residential building structures to be of brick, stone or
combination thereof, or of an equivalent masonry material as approved by the
Zoning Board of Adjustments; and further provided no single ground floor wall
face of any residential building structure shall contain less than 50% of its
exposed surface of exterior fire resistant construction material.
   (H)   Accessory building and structure regulations.  Area regulations for
accessory buildings or accessory structures shall be in compliance with §
151.025.
   (I)   Required open space.
      (1)   The minimum amount of required open space for any multi-family lot
shall be 20% of the area of the lot, net of floodplain and adjacent right-of-
way. Each ground level dwelling unit shall be provided with one useable open
space adjacent to the unit.
      (2)   A portion of the open space will be improved for the recreational
use of the residents. Such improvements shall include, but may not be limited
to, jogging trails, picnic areas, children's play areas, and athletic courts.
Configuration of the recreational area shall be subject to site plan approval.
The improved recreational area will be maintained by a property management or
the owner of the multifamily property.
   (J)   Entry feature.  A main entrance feature, which may consist of a
combination of landscaping, aesthetic features such as rocks, sculptures,
water, and street pavers, shall be provided. The entrance feature shall be
consistent with the basic architectural theme of the development.
   (K)   Trash receptacles.  There shall be one centralized trash collection
point serving each multi-family development.
      (1)   No trash collection point shall be located within 100 feet of a
property line.
      (2)   The centralized trash collection point shall not be located in any
street yard.
      (3)   All trash receptacles shall be screened with a masonry wall of
similar material as the main structure, with appropriate landscaping on three
sides and shall have a screening gate which shall remain closed except when
being serviced.
   (L)   Traffic.  A traffic impact analysis, prepared by a qualified traffic
engineer, must accompany the site plan. However, the traffic impact analysis
requirement may be excluded from the site plan if the Town Engineer determines
that the analysis is not necessary for the multi-family development.
   (M)   Miscellaneous multifamily residence provisions.
      (1)   All private balconies shall have lockable, enclosed storage areas.
      (2)   A concrete or masonry wall of not greater than eight feet in height
may be erected in the front yard. Said wall shall not be less than 50% open
construction.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.018  MH HUD CODE MANUFACTURED HOUSING RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of the MH HUD Code Manufactured Housing
Residential District is to provide adequate space and restrictions for the
placement of HUD Code manufactured homes in the town within designated
subdivisions. This does not include mobile homes as defined in this chapter.
The MH District is also established to provide housing densities compatible
with existing and proposed neighborhoods by providing alternative housing types
both in construction and economy within the MH District. It is the intent of
the MH District to provide the maximum amount of freedom possible in the design
of such developments and the grouping and layout of homes within such
developments in order to provide amenities normally associated with planned
residential areas.
   (B)   Generally.  Land within the MH District will be developed as a HUD
Code manufactured home subdivision. Lots within the MH District will be sold to
private individuals in strict conformance with the terms and conditions under
which the subdivision was approved by the Town Council. All roadways within a
HUD Code manufactured home subdivision shall be dedicated to the public.
Private interior drives must be approved by the town.
   (C)   Permitted uses.  Uses permitted within the MH District shall be in
accordance with §
151.012. Land zoned MH which is not developed as a HUD Code manufactured home
subdivision may be developed in accordance with R2 District regulations.  In
the MH District, no building or land shall be used and no building constructed,
reconstructed, altered, or enlarged, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (D)   Density, area, yard, height, and lot coverage requirements.  The
requirements regulating the maximum permissible residential density, minimum
lot size, minimum yard sizes, maximum building height, and maximum percent of
lot coverage by buildings, as pertains to the MH District, shall conform with
the provisions provided in the area requirements for the MH District table
below.
MH HUD Code Manufactured Housing Residential District
Area Requirements
MH HUD Code Manufactured Housing Residential District
Area Requirements
Maximum density                                   6.0 (d.u./acre)*
Minimum lot area                                  7,200 sq. feet
Minimum lot width                                 60 feet
Minimum lot depth                                 120 feet
Minimum front yard                                25 feet
Minimum side yard                                 7.5 feet
Minimum side yard adjacent to street (corner lot) 25 feet (same as front yard)
Minimum rear yard                                 10 feet
Maximum building height                           20 feet
Minimum dwelling size                             1,200 sq. feet
* d.u. = dwelling unit
 
   (E)   Development and installation regulations.  Any property developed
within the MH District as a HUD Code manufactured home or as a manufactured
housing subdivision shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   HUD Code manufactured homes shall have the axles, wheels, and tow
bar or tongue removed and shall be secured to a permanent foundation or footing
and piers, all in accordance with manufacturer's specifications.
      (2)   HUD Code manufactured homes must have a minimum of an 18-inch crawl
space under all homes.
      (3)   A concrete or asphalt surface with good drainage shall cover the
area where a home is to be sited.
      (4)   Each HUD Code manufactured home site shall have a slab or patio not
less than 20 feet in length and six feet in width, comprised of concrete,
flagstone, or similar substance installed adjacent to each site.
      (5)   HUD Code manufactured homes shall have permanent steps installed at
all exits.
      (6)   Each HUD Code manufactured home shall have two covered parking
spaces. All carports shall be constructed in accordance with §
151.025.01 of the Town Code.
      (7)   Skirting shall be securely attached between the HUD Code
manufactured home and the ground on all sides within 30 days of home
installation. Skirting materials shall consist of materials which are
compatible with the design of the home and enhance its appearance. Unpainted or
untreated corrugated metal, screen or wire, fiberglass, or lattice-type
skirting is prohibited.
      (8)   Construction, siting, and installation of the homes shall be in
conformance with applicable federal, state, and local codes and standards, and
each manufactured home shall have affixed a seal of the appropriate federal or
state department.
      (9)   Sanitation, fire protection, and underground utility services shall
be provided to each lot in accordance with the town ordinances and regulations.
      (10)   Driveways shall be all weather dust-free construction and shall
extend from the right-of-way to the carport or garage. No parking will be
permitted on any portion of the lot on any other surface than an all weather
dust-free surface.
      (11)   Drainage and garbage collection right-of-way, fire lanes, and
utility easements shall be provided as required by the town. Such can be
accomplished by designating all private interior drives within the project as
easements for vehicular access and service.
      (12)   Soil conditions, ground water level, drainage, flooding, and
topography shall not create hazards to the developed portion of the property or
the health and safety of the residents.
      (13)   HUD Code manufactured home subdivisions shall be developed at
densities comparable to adjacent residential uses or have adequate landscape
buffering or open space to provide transition of uses. Adequate landscape
buffering or open space for transition purposes shall be determined on an
individual site basis and shall be subject to the approval of the town.
      (14)   Any structural alteration or modification of a HUD Code
manufactured home after it is placed on the site must be approved by the
building official of the Town of Lakeside. All structural additions shall
comply with the town's building codes and ordinances.
   (F)   Site-built additions.  The addition of peaked roof facades, atrium
entrances, garages, porches, and patios are encouraged in order to increase the
compatibility with conventional single family housing in the town.
   (G)   Accessory building and structure regulations.  Area regulations for
accessory buildings or accessory structures shall be in compliance with §
151.025.
   (H)   Parking requirements.  Parking requirements for the MH HUD Code
Manufactured Housing Residential District shall be in compliance with §
151.027.
   (I)   Interior drives.  The use of private interior drives must be approved
by the town.
      (1)   Such interior drives shall have a minimum easement width of 50 feet
and shall have a minimum paved roadway width of 31 feet back-to-back.
      (2)   Public interior streets shall be located within dedicated rights-
of-way, and shall have a minimum paved roadway width provided in accordance
with the applicable standards in the Town of Lakeside Subdivision Regulations.
      (3)   All private interior drives, entrances, and service drives shall be
constructed in accordance with town design standards. The developer shall bear
the total cost of construction and maintenance of all such improvements.
      (4)   All parking areas and public streets shall be of concrete or
asphalt construction, as approved by the Town Engineer.
   (J)   Underground utilities.  All utility lateral and service lines located
within the MH District shall be installed underground.
   (K)   Open space area.  Open space designated for the use and enjoyment of
all residents shall be provided within a HUD Code manufactured home subdivision
at the ratio of 500 square feet for each of the first 20 units, and  200 square
feet for each additional unit in excess of 20.  Designated open space shall be
developed and maintained for recreational and leisure activities and shall be
located within the subdivision being developed.
   (L)   Screening.  A solid opaque screening wall or fence of not less than
six feet in height, measured at the highest finished grade, shall be provided
along all perimeter property lines of a HUD Code manufactured home subdivision
which do not abut a dedicated street. Said screening wall or fence shall be
masonry and of a decorative construction. This requirement can be waived or
modified if natural or man-made physical features create an adequate separation
or buffer from adjacent uses, as determined by the town. However, any request
to waive this requirement shall be presented as an element of the site plan and
shall be subject to approval at that time only.
   (M)   Preservation of site assets.  When developing a HUD Code manufactured
home subdivision, the following steps shall be taken to preserve on-site
assets:
      (1)   Suitable available topsoil and desirable existing trees;
      (2)   Shrubs and ground cover shall be preserved and protected where
practicable;
      (3)   Topsoil which is suitable and needed for later use in finished
grading shall be stripped from areas to be occupied by structures, parking
areas, streets and driveways, and from areas to be regraded or disturbed. This
topsoil shall be collected and stored on the site in convenient places for
future use and shall be free of debris during construction.
   (N)   Drainage.  Engineering plans for drainage shall be submitted for
review by the town at the time of site plan approval. All applicable
requirements of the town shall be met.
   (O)   HUD Code manufactured home sales.  HUD Code manufactured home
subdivisions shall be for residential purposes only. Sales of these homes shall
be limited to those which become available on the market on an individual
basis. Commercial sales and promotion are not permitted.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.019  C GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of the C General Commercial District is to
provide for compatible land, building, and structure uses primarily oriented to
select retail convenience goods and services which supply the daily needs of
residential neighborhoods, including neighborhood shopping centers, select low
intensity office uses, and select community facility uses. The C General
Commercial District is most appropriately located at the intersection of
collector streets and arterial streets and as a transition district between
moderate and high density residential districts and higher intensity commercial
and industrial districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses.  Uses permitted in the C General Commercial District
shall be in accordance with §
151.012.
   (C)   Density, area, yard, height, and lot coverage requirements.  The
requirements regulating the minimum lot size, minimum yard sizes, maximum
building height, and maximum percent of lot coverage by buildings, as pertains
to the C District, shall conform with the provisions provided in the C District
area requirements table below.
C General Commercial District
Area Requirements
C General Commercial District
Area Requirements
Minimum lot area                      None
Minimum lot width                     None
Minimum lot depth                     None
Minimum street yard (from any street; 25 feet
front, side, rear)
Minimum side yard                     None, except 10 feet from any
                                      residentially zoned district
Minimum rear yard                     None, except 10 feet from any
                                      residentially zoned district
Maximum building height               40 feet
 
   (D)   Off-street parking and loading requirements.  Off-street parking and
loading requirements pertaining to uses allowed in the C District shall conform
with the provisions of §
151.027.
   (E)   Conversion of residential structures.  All residential structures
located within the C District may be used as commercial or residential uses in
accordance with the following conditions:
      (1)   The residential structure is not altered such that the bathrooms,
kitchen, and garage facilities are removed or rendered unusable for a
residential structure.
      (2)   The natural ground cover in the front, side, or rear yards is not
removed or paved with a permanent surface as to render it unusable for typical
residential purposes.
      (3)   Any and all signage shall be monument or nameplate type signs. In
the event that the use of the structure shall change from commercial to
residential, all non-residential signage shall be removed and the original
ground cover shall be returned to the original condition existing prior to
placement of the sign.
   (F)   Concurrent use of commercial and residential structures.  All
commercial structures may contain a residential use concurrent with the
commercial use, in accordance with the following restrictions:
      (1)   Only one residential unit, regardless of square footage of the
residential use, may be permitted per commercial structure, except that;
      (2)   More than one residential unit may be permitted for loft or studio
apartments if the total number of square footage allocated to residential use
does not exceed 60% of the total square footage of the structure.
   (G)   Existing residential uses.  All legal and valid residential uses
existing on the effective date of this chapter within the C District shall have
legal conforming status. The owners of the property where such uses are located
shall be permitted, if necessary or desired, to rebuild, expand, or remodel.
All expansions or remodels shall comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Masonry exterior requirements.  All principal buildings and structures
shall be of 85% masonry exterior construction. Masonry exterior construction
for accessory buildings and structures shall be regulated according to §
151.025.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.020  PD PLANNED DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of the PD Planned Development District is to
encourage creative development of the land, provide locations for well planned
comprehensive developments, and provide for variety and flexibility in the
development patterns of the town which promote the health, safety, morals, and
general welfare of the community. A planned development may include a
combination of different dwelling types and/or a variety of residential and
non-residential land uses which creatively complement each other and harmonize
with existing and proposed land uses in the vicinity.
   (B)   Planned development uses. In a PD Planned Development District, no
building or land shall be used, and no building constructed, reconstructed,
altered, or enlarged, unless otherwise provided in an approved planned
development.
   (C)    Conditions for planned developments.  Planned developments shall be
considered appropriate where the following conditions prevail:
      (1)   The project is consistent with the Comprehensive Land Use Plan and
the goals and objectives of the town;
      (2)   Dwelling units are situated in such a way that an appreciable
amount of open space is available and is integrated throughout the planned
development;
      (3)   The project utilizes an innovative approach in lot configuration
and mixture of residential and commercial type land uses;
      (4)   Higher densities than conventional single-family projects of the
same acreage are provided with increased open space and appropriate buffering
between existing conventional single-family developments;
      (5)   Non-residential uses are situated such that an appreciable amount
of land is available for open space or joint use as parking and public access
space and is integrated throughout the planned development;
      (6)   Aesthetic amenities are provided in the planned development design
which otherwise are not economically feasible in conventional residential and
non-residential projects; and
      (7)   The project provides a compatible transition, which may include
buffer yards, thoroughfares, or transitional uses, between adjacent existing
single-family residential projects and provides a compatible transition for the
extension of future single-family projects into adjacent undeveloped areas.
   (D)   Density, area and height regulations.  In approving a planned
development or a use designation in a planned development, the Town Council
shall specify density, area, height, screening, parking, landscaping, and other
development criteria as may be required in division (I) below.  Such standards
shall be indicated on the development plan and shall be made a part of the
ordinance. No property located in a planned development shall be modified as to
density, area, height, screening, parking, landscaping or other development
criteria unless a development plan containing such revised development criteria
is approved.
   (E)   Ownership.  An application for approval of a use designation,
development plan or site plan in the planned development may be filed by a
person having a legal interest in the property. The application shall be filed
in the name(s) of the record owner(s) of the site, which shall be included in
the application. The applicant shall provide evidence, in a form satisfactory
to the Town Attorney, prior to final approval, that the applicant has the
authority to file the application on behalf of all owners of the site.
   (F)   Development schedule.  An application for a use designation for new
construction or construction that increases the floor area of the principal
structure(s) shall be accompanied by a development schedule indicating the
approximate date on which construction is expected to begin and the rate of
anticipated development to completion. The development schedule, if adopted and
approved by the Town Council shall become part of the planned development
ordinance and shall be adhered to by the owner, developer, and their assigns or
successors in interest.
   (G)   Report.  The town shall require the owner/developer of the planned
development to submit a written report on a regular basis to the Town Council.
Said written report shall describe the progress achieved towards the
development schedule. In the event that the owner/developer neglects to provide
a written report, as established and agreed to in the planned development
ordinance, or if the owner/developer neglects to initiate any progress, the
town may initiate proceedings to rezone the property to a zoning district
deemed appropriate. However, no rezoning effort shall be initiated by the town
prior to making an official inquiry of the owner/developer regarding the status
of the planned development.
   (H)   Platting requirements.  No application for a building permit for the
construction of a building or structure shall be approved unless the property
on which the proposed improvements are planned has been platted. The plat must
meet all the requirements of the Town of Lakeside, and must have been approved
by the Town Council and recorded in the official records of Tarrant County.
   (I)   Development plan requirement. 
      (1)   An application for a planned development, or approval of a use
designation in a planned development which will require new construction which
increases the floor area of the principal structure(s) or a change in the
development criteria applicable to the site shall include and be accompanied by
a development plan, which shall become a part of the amending ordinance. The
development plan shall include the following information:
         (a)   A scale drawing showing any proposed public or private streets
and alleys; building sites or building lots; any areas proposed for dedication
or reserved as parks, parkways, playgrounds, utility and garbage easements,
school sites, street widening, street changes; the points of ingress and egress
from existing public streets on an accurate survey of the boundary of tract and
topography with a contour interval of not less than five feet, or spot grades
where the relief is limited.
         (b)   Where multiple types of commercial land uses are proposed, a
land use plan delineating the specific areas to be devoted to various
commercial uses shall be required.
         (c)   A plan indicating the arrangement and provision of off-street
parking and off-street loading where required. Such a plan may be presented as
a ratio of off-street parking and off-street loading area to building area when
accompanied by a typical example indicating the feasibility of the arrangement
proposed and when the areas where the example would be applied are dimensioned
on the drawing of the entire site.  Any special traffic regulation facilities
proposed or required to assure the safe function of the circulation plan shall
also be shown.
         (d)   A designation of the maximum building coverage of the site shall
be indicated upon the development plan. General foot print of buildings shall
be indicated showing the approximate position and sizes of any proposed
structures.
         (e)   Landscaping and screening shall be provided as required in
Section 35, Landscape Regulations and shall be indicated on the development
plan.
         (f)   Any or all of the required features may be incorporated on a
single drawing if such drawing is clear and capable of evaluation by the
administrative official and interpretation by the Building Inspector.
      (2)   Any amendment to a development plan must be approved by ordinance
following public notice and a public hearing meeting the requirements of §
151.038(C).
   (J)   Site plan requirement. Prior to issuance of a building permit, for new
construction or construction which increases the floor area of the principal
structure(s) or construction that changes the development criteria for the
site, a site plan in accordance with §
151.021 will be required. The site plan shall be presented for approval to the
Town Council. The site plan may be submitted concurrently with the development
plan. If the development plan and the site plan are submitted separately, a
separate public hearing and action shall be required for both submittals.
   (K)   Combined and abbreviated development and site plan submittal.  If
application is made for a new use designation in a Planned use development on a
site which contains existing improvements which are not proposed to be
enlarged, the following combined and abbreviated development and site plan
shall be permitted in place of a development plan. A combined and abbreviated
development and site plan shall contain the following:
      (1)   A scale drawing showing existing building and proposed use
designations, easements, points of ingress and egress from existing public
streets, the arrangement and provision of off-street parking and off-street
loading, and the location of landscaping and screening provided on site. These
items shall be shown on an accurate survey of the boundary of the lot. All of
the required features may be incorporated on a single drawing if such drawing
is clear and capable of evaluation by the administrative official and
interpretation by the building inspector.
      (2)   Combined and abbreviated development and site plan must be approved
by ordinance following public notice and a public hearing meeting the
requirements of §
151.038(C).
   (L)   Administrative approval of development and site plan.  A development
plan and site plan may be approved by the administrative official without the
approval of the Town Council if said application is located within an existing
structure and does not increase the floor area of the existing structure and
does not change the existing use on the site. The administrative official may,
for any reason, elect to present the development plan or site plan to the Town
Council for approval.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 151.021  SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.  Whenever a site plan is required by this chapter, such
site plan must conform to the requirements of this section. Unless otherwise
specified in this chapter, all site plans must be approved by the Town Council.
The site plan submitted in support of an application shall satisfy the
requirements for site plan submittals as set forth by the town staff. Site
plans shall be reviewed by the town staff, and comments shall be returned
within five working days after the review by the town staff. In no event shall
the review process exceed 15 working days after submittal. The submittal date
of the site plan shall be the date upon which the site plan is found to be in
compliance with the provisions of the site plan application by the town staff.
   (B)   Required prior to building permit.  When required by this chapter, a
site plan must be approved prior to the issuance of a building permit by the
town.
   (C)   Changes to the site plan.  Changes to the site plan shall be processed
in the same manner as the original approved site plan.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in division (C)(3) below, any site
plan that is amended shall require approval of the Town Council.
      (2)   Changes to the site plan which will affect the use of the land may
require either an amendment to a planned development or a rezoning of property,
whichever applies.
      (3)   Changes of details within a site plan which do not alter the basic
physical relationship of the property to adjacent properties; do not alter the
use permitted; and do not increase the density, floor area, height, or reduce
the yards provided at the boundary of the site as indicated on the approved
site plan, may be authorized by the administrative official or his or her
designee. An aggrieved party may appeal the decision of the administrative
official or his or her designee to the Zoning Board of Adjustment in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Council approval.  Council approval of a site plan that accompanies a
zoning change request shall become part of the amending ordinance.
   (E)   Site plan content.  The site plan shall contain the information listed
below, and any or all of the required features may be incorporated on a single
drawing if the drawing is clear and capable of evaluation by the Town Council
and the staff personnel required to enforce and interpret this chapter.
      (1)   The boundary lines and dimensions of the property, existing
subdivision lots, available utilities, easements, roadways, sidewalks,
emergency access easements, and public rights-of-way.
      (2)   Topography of the property proposed for development in contours of
not less than two feet, together with any proposed grade elevations, if
different from existing elevations.
      (3)   Floodplains, water courses, marshes, drainage areas, and other
significant environmental features including, but not limited to, rock
outcroppings and major tree groupings. Topographic and drainage map information
provisions may be waived by the reviewing body when the inclusion of such data
would not materially contribute to the necessary evaluation of the project
petition.
      (4)   The location and use of all existing and proposed buildings or
structures, including all refuse storage areas, and the minimum distance
between buildings. Where building complexes are proposed, the location of each
building and the minimum distances between buildings, and between buildings and
the property line, street line, and/or alley.
      (5)   Total number, location, and arrangement of off-street parking and
loading spaces, where required.
      (6)   All points of vehicular ingress, egress, and circulation within the
property and all special traffic regulation facilities proposed or required to
assure the safe function of the circulation plan.
      (7)   Setbacks, lot coverage, and when relevant, the relationship of the
setbacks provided and the height of any existing or proposed building or
structure.
      (8)   The location, size, and arrangement of all outdoor signs, exterior
auditory speakers, and lighting.
      (9)   The type, location, and quantity of all plant material used for
landscaping, and the type, location, and height of fences or screening and the
plantings around them.
      (10)   If multiple types of land uses are proposed, a delineation of the
specific areas to be devoted to various land uses.
      (11)   Vicinity map, north point, scale, name of development, name of
owner, name of planner, total acreage of project, and street address or common
description of the property.
      (12)   Current land uses and zoning district of the property and current
land uses and zoning districts of contiguous properties.
      (13)   Buildings on the exterior of the site and within 25 feet of all
property lines.
      (14)   The location and size of existing and proposed surface and
subsurface drainage facilities, including culverts, drains, and detention
ponds, showing size and direction of flow.
      (15)   The number of square feet of the property after construction which
will constitute impervious area or impervious surface and vegetated areas.
      (16)   Architectural drawings, such as elevations, concept sketches or
renderings depicting building types and other significant proposed improvements
including the treatment and use of open spaces, etc., where the submission of
such drawings would more clearly portray the nature and character of the
applicant's land use and development proposals.
      (17)   Legal description of the total site area proposed for rezoning,
development or specific use permit.
      (18)   Signature, title and date of the applicant, at the conclusion of
the written documents certifying the information presented in the plans, and
supporting documents reflect a reasonably accurate portrayal of the general
nature and character of the applicant's proposals.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.022  SPECIFIC USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose.  Certain land uses, because of their nature and location, are
not appropriate for categorizing into installations, such as colleges and
universities, institutions, community facilities, zoos, cemeteries, country
clubs, show grounds, drive-in theaters and other unusual land uses not
specifically provided for in this chapter. To provide for the proper handling
and location of such specific uses, provision is made for amending this chapter
to grant a permit for a specific use in a specific location. This procedure for
approval of a specific use permit includes a public hearing. The amending
ordinance may provide for certain restrictions and standards for operation. The
indication that it is possible to grant a specific use permit as noted
elsewhere in this chapter does not constitute a grant of privilege for such
use, nor is there any obligation to approve a specific use permit unless it is
the finding of the Town Council that such a special use is compatible with
adjacent property use and consistent with the character of the neighborhood.
   (B)   Permit required.  No special use shall be erected, used, altered,
occupied nor shall any person convert any land, building or structure to such a
use unless a specific use permit has been issued by the Town Council. The
granting of a specific use permit shall be done in accordance with the
provisions for amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   Application procedure. An application for a special permit shall be
filed with the administrative official on a form prepared by the town. The
application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   A completed application form signed by the property owner;
      (2)   An application fee as established by the town's latest adopted
schedule of fees;
      (3)   A certificate stating that all town and school taxes have been paid
to date;
      (4)   A property description of the area where the specific use permit is
proposed to apply;
      (5)   A site plan complying with the requirements stated in this section
which will become a part of the specific use permit, if approved; and
      (6)   Any other material and/or information as may be required by the
Town Council or the administrative official to fulfill the purpose of this
division and to ensure that the application is in compliance with the
ordinances of the town.
   (D)   Site plan information.  A site plan shall contain, at a minimum the
information as provided in §
151.021.
   (E)   Additional information.  The Town Council may request additional
information for the site plan upon finding that the information submitted is
sufficient to determine that the proposed building, use, structure, development
or activity will have an insubstantial impact on the surrounding area and that
providing the information required by the submittal requirements is
unreasonably burdensome on the applicant. The following additional information
may also be required if deemed appropriate by staff or the Town Council.
      (1)   Copies of studies or analyses upon which have been based
projections for need or demand for the proposed facility;
      (2)   Description of the present use, assessed value and actual value of
the land affected by the proposed facility;
      (3)   Description of the proposed use, anticipated assessed value and
supporting documentation;
      (4)   A description of any long-term plans or master plan for the future
use or development of the property;
      (5)   A description of the applicant's ability to obtain needed easements
to serve the proposed use;
      (6)   A description of any special construction requirements that may be
necessary for any construction or development on the subject property;
      (7)   A traffic impact analysis prepared by a qualified professional in
the field of traffic evaluation and forecasting may be required.
   (F)   Conditions for permit approval.  A specific use permit shall not be
recommended for approval by the Town Council unless the Council finds that all
of the following conditions have been found to exist:
      (1)   The proposed use complies with all the requirements of the zoning
district in which the property is located.
      (2)   The proposed use as located and configured will contribute to or
promote the general welfare and convenience of the town.
      (3)   The benefits that the town gains from the proposed use outweigh the
loss of or damage to any homes, business, natural resources, agricultural
lands, historical or cultural landmarks or sites, wildlife habitats, parks, or
natural, scenic, or historical features of significance, and outweigh the
personal and economic cost of any disruption to the lives, business and
property of individuals affected by the proposed use.
      (4)   Adequate utilities, road access, drainage and other necessary
supporting facilities have been or shall be provided.
      (5)   The design, location and arrangement of all public and private
streets, driveways, parking spaces, entrances and exits shall provide for a
safe and convenient movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic without
adversely affecting the general public or adjacent developments.
      (6)   The issuance of the specific use permit does not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of neighboring vacant property.
      (7)   The location, nature and height of buildings, structures, walls and
fences are not out of scale with the neighborhood.
      (8)   The proposed use will be compatible with and not injurious to the
use and enjoyment of neighboring property, nor significantly diminish or impair
property values within the vicinity.
      (9)   Adequate nuisance prevention measures have been or shall be taken
to prevent or control offensive odors, fumes, dust, noise, vibration and visual
blight.
      (10)   Sufficient on-site lighting is provided for adequate safety of
patrons, employees and property, and such lighting is adequately shielded or
directed so as not to disturb or adversely effect neighboring properties.
      (11)   There is sufficient landscaping and screening to ensure harmony
and compatibility with adjacent properties.
      (12)   The proposed operation is consistent with the applicant's
submitted plans, master plans, projections, or, where inconsistencies exist,
the benefits to the community outweigh the costs.
      (13)   The proposed use is in accordance with the Town of Lakeside
Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
   (G)   Additional conditions.  In authorizing a specific use permit, the Town
Council may impose additional reasonable conditions necessary to protect the
public interest and the welfare of the community.
   (H)   Time limit.  A specific use permit issued under this division shall
become null and void unless construction or use is substantially underway
within one year of the granting of the permit, unless an extension of time is
approved the Town Council.
   (I)   Revocation of permit. A specific use permit may be revoked or
modified, after notice and hearing, for either of the following reasons:
      (1)   The permit was obtained or extended by fraud or deception.
      (2)   One or more of the conditions imposed by the permit has not been
met or has been violated.
   (J)   Amendments to specific use permit.  The procedure for amending a
specific use permit shall be the same as for a new application, provided the
administrative official may approve minor variations from the original permit
which do not increase density, change traffic patterns, or result in an
increase in external impacts on adjacent properties or neighborhoods.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.023  GENERAL HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Nonresidential structures.  A non-residential building may exceed the
permitted height in a zoning district if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   A site plan is provided; and
      (2)   For every one foot exceeding the maximum permitted height, an
additional one foot of setback is provided on the front, side, and rear yards.
The maximum height of a building shall not exceed 50 feet without a special
exception.
   (B)   Exceptions.  Height regulations do not apply to steeples, domes,
cupolas, or other architectural design elements usually required to be placed
above the roof level and not intended for human occupancy.
   (C)   Antennas.  For antenna and tower height regulations see §
151.029.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.024  GENERAL YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The following general requirements provide additional criteria which apply
to yard requirements in all zoning districts.
   (A)   Projections of structural features. 
      (1)   Ordinary sills, belt courses, cornices, chimneys, bay windows,
buttresses and ornamental features may project not more than twelve inches into
a required yard; and
      (2)   Eaves may project not more than 36 inches into a required yard.
   (B)   Gasoline facilities.  Gasoline filling station pumps and pump islands
may be located or project into a required yard provided they are not less than
15 feet distant from any street, highway or alley right-of-way line, and not
less than 50 feet distant from any residential property line.
   (C)   Double frontage lots.  Where lots have double frontage, running
through from one street to another, a required front yard shall be provided on
both streets unless otherwise established by plat or by ordinance, in which
case only one required front yard need be provided.
   (D)   Shared yards prohibited.  No part of a yard or other open space
required about or in connection with any building for the purpose of complying
with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space or off-street
parking or loading space similarly required for any other building.
   (E)   Corner lots.  For the purposes of determining yard requirements on
corner lots and through lots, all sides of a lot adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and yards shall be provided as indicated in the
appropriate zoning district area regulations.
   (F)   Two or more zoning districts.  Where the frontage on one side of the
street between two intersecting streets is divided by two or more zoning
districts, the front yard shall comply with the requirements of the most
restrictive district for the entire frontage from one intersecting street to
the other.
   (G)   Established building line.  Where a building line has been established
by plat or previous ordinance, and the line requires a front yard setback
greater or lesser in depth than is prescribed by this chapter for the district
in which the building line is located, the required front yard shall comply
with the building line established by the previous ordinance or plat.
   (H)   Measurement.  The front yard shall be measured from the property line
to the front face of the building, covered porch, covered terrace, or attached
accessory building. Eave and roof extensions may project into the required
front yard for a distance not to exceed 24 inches.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.024.01  LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to establish certain
regulations pertaining to landscaping within the town. These regulations
provide standards and criteria for new landscaping and the retention of
existing trees which are intended to:
      (1)   Promote the value of property, enhance the welfare, and improve the
physical appearance of the town;
      (2)   Reduce the negative effects of glare, noise, erosion and
sedimentation causes by expanses of impervious and unvegetated surfaces within
the urban environment; and
      (3)   Preserve and improve the natural and urban environment by
recognizing that the use of landscaping elements and retention of existing
trees can contribute to the processes of air purification, oxygen regeneration,
groundwater recharge, abatement of noise, reduction in glare and heat,
provision of habitats for wildlife, and enhance the overall beauty of the Town
of Lakeside.
      (4)   These landscape regulations establish requirements in the Multi-
Family and C Zoning Districts.
      (5)   Residential uses in the R1, R2 and MH Districts shall conform only
to the requirements set forth in division (E), Residential Districts, of this
section.
      (6)   Non-residential uses located within the R1, R2, and MH Zoning
Districts, which consist of principal structures, parking areas, and signage,
shall be required to comply with the requirements contained in this section.
   (B)   Landscaping definitions. For the purposes of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      BUFFER YARD. A unit of land, together with a specified amount of planting
thereon, and any structure which may be required between land uses to eliminate
or minimize conflicts between them.
      BUILDING FOOTPRINT. The area of the building in contact with the ground.
      CALIPER. Diameter of the trunk measured one foot above ground level.
      CANOPY TREES. A perennial woody plant, single or multiple trunks,
contributing to the uppermost spreading branch layer of a forest and may be
commonly referred to as SHADE TREES.
      DEVELOPMENT. The changing of the existing topography in order to promote
the construction of structures or infrastructure to accommodate any
improvements necessary to erect facilities for dwelling or commercial or
industrial uses resulting in developed property.
      ENHANCED PAVEMENT. Any permeable or non-permeable decorative pavement
material intended for pedestrian or vehicular use. ENHANCED PAVEMENT includes
brick or stone pavers, grass pavers and stamped and stained concrete.
      GRASS PAVERS. An alterative paving surface consisting of porous grids of
concrete, plastic, or other material uses for the construction of permeable
pavers, which permit grass cover to grow on the paving surface.
      GROUND COVER. Low growing dense spreading plants typically planted from
containers.
      INTERIOR LOT AREA. The area of the lot remaining after subtracting out
the area included in the buffer yards.
      LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT. A person registered as a landscape architect in the
State of Texas pursuant to state law.
      LANDSCAPE AREA. An area covered by natural grass, ground cover, or other
natural plant materials.
      LANDSCAPE CREDIT. A relief, relaxation, or lessening of the percent of
required landscaped area, which is granted due to the addition of landscape
features greater than just grass cover. This credit may also include the
protection or retention of existing trees that meet the minimum caliper
requirements of the landscape regulations.
      LAWN GRASSES. Thin bladed surface growing plants typically planted from
seed, sprigs, or plugs.
      LICENSED IRRIGATOR. A person duly licensed by the State of Texas to
design and install irrigation systems.
      PERMEABLE PAVEMENT. A paving material that permits water penetration.
      R.O.W. PARKWAY. That area within the public right-of-way (R.O.W.) between
the back of curb or edge of pavement and the right-of-way line.
      SEASONAL COLOR. Landscape areas used for annual and perennial flowers
intended to maintain year-round color accents.
      SHRUBS. Plants that grow vertically in a multi-branched growth pattern.
      UNDERSTORY/ACCENT TREES. Small evergreen or deciduous perennial woody
plants, which would grow below the top layer of the forest and typically have
unique branching, textural or seasonal color characteristics.
      XERISCAPE. Design principles that promote drought-tolerant or low water
use practices for landscaped areas.
   (C)   Events causing compliance. Land uses not previously subject to
landscaping requirements may be required to comply with this section upon the
occurrence of one of the following events:
      (1)   A change in zoning;
      (2)   Requirement of landscaping as conditions of a specific use permit;
      (3)   Issuance of a building permit; or
      (4)   Loss of legal non-conforming status.
   (D)   Landscape installation required.
      (1)   No building permit shall be issued after the effective date of this
section for the construction of any new building in Zoning District C unless a
landscaping plan has been approved in accordance with this section. Except as
otherwise provided in this section, a minimum of 20% of the total area of the
lot on which the new building is constructed shall be landscaped.
      (2)   Landscaping which includes the planting of new and the retention of
existing shrubs, trees, and flowering plans, in addition to grass, may reduce
the landscape requirement to 10% of the total lot area. Landscaping which
consists of grass only will require 20% of the total area to be landscaped.
      (3)   Where the construction is to be a single phase of a multi-phase
development, only the area being constructed in the current phase need be
subject to the landscape regulations. However, each phase will be required to
meet the landscaping requirements as they are being developed.
   (E)   Residential Districts. Residential uses located in the R1, R2, and MH
Zoning Districts shall be required to locate a minimum of two trees on each
lot. The size of such trees shall be a minimum of three inches in caliper.
Credit will be given for existing trees retained; and/or existing trees may
satisfy this requirement.
   (F)   Landscape plan required for commercial.
      (1)   The landscape plan may be prepared by the applicant or his or her
designee. The landscape plan is not required to be prepared by a registered or
certified professional.
      (2)   A landscaping plan shall be submitted to the town for approval. The
landscape plan may be submitted as a part of the site plan or as a separate
submittal. However, a landscape plan meeting the requirements of this section
shall be provided and approved prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      (3)   The landscape plan shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Drawn to scale; minimum scale of one inch equals 50 feet;
         (b)   Location of all trees to be preserved, method of preservation
during the construction phase of development shall be approved by staff;
         (c)   Location of all plants and landscaping material to be used
including paving, benches, screens, fountains, statues, or other landscape
features;
         (d)   Species of all plant material to be used;
         (e)   Size of all plant material to be used;
         (f)   Spacing of plant material where appropriate;
         (g)   Layout and description of irrigation, sprinkler or water system,
including placement of water sources;
         (h)   Description of maintenance provisions of the landscape plan;
         (i)   Persons responsible for the preparation of the landscape plan.
   (G)   Locational criteria.
      (1)   Not less than 40% of the total landscaping shall be located in the
designated front yard.
      (2)   All landscape material shall comply with visibility requirements.
   (H)   Credits toward landscaping requirements. Credits toward the landscape
requirements of this section may be granted in the following manner:
      (1)   Grass is an appropriate landscape material. However, a variety of
plant material is recommended.
      (2)   Credits toward the landscaping requirements may be granted in the
following manner:
LANDSCAPE AREA CREDIT
Landscape Element                                Amount of Area Credit
For each 3-inch tree                             200 sq. ft.
For each 6-inch tree                             400 sq. ft.
For each existing 6-inch tree protected and kept 800 sq. ft.
For each one-gallon shrub                        10 sq. ft.
For each five-gallon shrub                       25 sq. ft.
For each sq. ft. of flowering beds               2.5 sq. ft.
For each sq. ft. of xeriscape area               5 sq. ft.
For each sq. ft. of landscaped R.O.W.            0.5 sq. ft.
 
      (3)   In no instance shall the total amount of landscaping on a lot be
reduced through credits by more than 50% of the landscaped area required by
this section.
      (4)   Xeriscaped areas shall be clearly located and detailed on the site
plan. In addition, the xeriscape methodology shall be detailed on the site
plan.
      (5)   A FLOWERING BED is any area where the soil has been specifically
prepared for the planting of flowering plants. In addition, in order to be
considered for credit calculations, at least 80% of the prepared area must be
covered with flowering plant material at the time of peak growth.
      (6)   Caliper of trees is to be measured at a point 12 inches above top
of ground.
      (7)   In order to receive credit for protecting and keeping existing
trees, the area within the dripline of the tree must be protected by fencing
during grading and construction.
   (I)   Installation and maintenance.
      (1)   All required landscaped area shall be permanently landscaped with
living plant material, and shall have an irrigation system installed or shall
be accessible to a bibcock, faucet, or other water source on the same lot or
parcel. Synthetic or artificial lawn or plant material shall not be used to
satisfy the landscape requirements of this section.
      (2)   Landscaped areas shall be kept free of trash, litter, weeds, and
other such material or plants not a part of the landscaping.
      (3)   All plant materials shall be maintained in a health and growing
condition as is appropriate for the season of the year. Maintenance shall
include mowing, watering, trimming, pruning, and the like.
      (4)   Plant materials which die shall be removed immediately and shall be
replaced with plant material of similar variety and size within 90 days, with a
one-time extension not exceeding 90 days being provided upon approval of the
Town Administrator or his or her designee.
   (J)   Landscaping of parking lots. It is the intent of these landscape
regulations to encourage design and construction of parking areas so that in a
manner whereby areas within the parking lot are landscaped as well as areas
considered unusable for parking or maneuvering space are landscaped. The
following minimum requirements shall be observed:
      (1)   A minimum of 10% of the gross parking area shall be devoted to
living plant material. Gross parking area shall be measured from the edge of
the parking and/or driveway paving and sidewalks.
      (2)   The placement of additional landscaped islands throughout the
parking area in a manner which best relieves large expanses of paved area is
encouraged.
      (3)   Landscape material which is located within the interior of a
parking lot shall be surrounded by a curb of four inches in height.
      (4)   Landscaping within a parking lot shall not create a visibility
obstruction. A VISIBILITY OBSTRUCTION within a parking lot is defined as
landscaping between 30 inches in height and seven feet in height. No shrubs
shall exceed 30 inches in height. Tree canopies shall be at least seven feet in
height.
      (5)   For large existing trees located in the parking area, which are
being retained and incorporated into the landscaping plan, an appropriate
aeration system or an alternative method of protecting the tree must be
provided and detailed in the landscape plan.
      (6)   For each landscaped island of at least ten feet by 20 feet located
within a parking lot, credit for four parking spaces will be provided. Credit
for parking spaces cannot reduce the overall parking requirement by more than
20% or to less than ten total spaces.
   (K)   Landscaping as related to certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   All landscaping shall be completed and installed in accordance with
the approved landscape plan within 90 days of a certificate of occupancy being
granted. A one-time extension not to exceed 90 days may be granted upon
approval of the Town Administrator or his or her designee.
      (2)   If these landscaping requirements have not been satisfied within
the period from when the certificate of occupancy is issued, the property owner
shall be considered in violation of this section of the zoning ordinance of the
town, and shall be subject to the penalties established herein. A one-time
extension not to exceed six months may be granted upon approval of the Town
Council.
   (L)   Nonconforming landscaping conditions. Developments, structures, and
uses that are in existence at the time of the adoption of this section which do
not meet the landscape requirements provided herein, will be considered as
being legal nonconforming. These nonconforming uses/structures will be subject
to the section pertaining to nonconforming uses and structures (§
151.030), unless otherwise provided for in this section.
   (M)   Landscaping in the Multi-Family District.
      (1)   The following minimum requirements shall be observed for
development located within the Multi-Family District:
         (a)   A landscape buffer of 20 feet will be required along any
property line abutting a residentially zoned district.
         (b)   Not less than 20% of the gross site area shall be devoted to
open space, including required yards and buffer areas. Open space shall not
include areas covered by structures, parking areas, driveways, and internal
streets.
         (c)   Landscaping consisting of the planting of new or retention of
existing shrubs, trees, and flowering plants shall be placed in the yard facing
any public roadway.
         (d)   The method of irrigation must be indicated on the site plan.
      (2)   All landscaping shall be permanently maintained. Should any plant
material used in any landscaping required under this section die, the owner of
the property shall have 90 days after notification from the town to obtain and
install a suitable replacement plant material. Landscaped area shall be kept
free of trash, litter, weeds, and other material or plants not a part of the
landscaping.
   (N)   Relief from landscaping requirements.
      (1)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved
in complying with the provisions of this section relating to landscaping, such
as the presence of existing facilities or unusual topography, the Town
Administrator may grant modification in individual cases, provided the Town
Administrator shall first find that a special individual circumstance makes
strict compliance with this section impractical; that the modification is in
conformity with the intent and purpose of this section; and that the proposed
modification is at least the equivalent of the requirements prescribed by this
section. Such modification may only be made upon written application filed with
the Town Administrator and the details of any action granting the modification
shall be recorded and entered into the files of the town. In order to be
considered for a modification, the applicant shall:
         (a)   Provide the Town Administrator with an alternative landscape
plan for review and consideration for approval.
         (b)   The landscape plan must illustrate a plan to landscape as much
area as available, provide for irrigation, and provide a phasing schedule for
completing the plan.
         (c)   All landscaping installations must be inspected and approved by
the Town Administrator or his or her designee.
      (2)   Variances and appeals. Any applicant who desires a variance or
elimination of the requirements herein or who desires to appeal a decision of
the Town Administrator or his or her designee, shall file a written appeal with
the Town Administrator for consideration by the Zoning Board of Adjustments,
and pay the variance application fee. Such appeal shall be accompanied by
adequate graphic reproductions, a written summary of the request, and
justification for the request. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the
authority to grant an interpretation or variance to the requirements of this
section if it determines that a literal enforcement of the regulations will
create an unnecessary hardship or practical difficulty in the development of
the property, that the situation causing the unnecessary hardship or practical
difficulty is unique to the affected property and is not self-imposed, that the
variance will not injure and will be wholly compatible with the use and
permitted development of adjacent properties, and that the granting of the
variance will be in harmony with the intent and purpose of this section. The
decision of the Zoning Board of Adjustment shall be final.
(Ord. 338, passed 7-12-2012)
§ 151.025  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS/STRUCTURES, DETACHED GARAGES, RV BUILDINGS IN
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All accessory buildings/structures, detached garages, RV buildings
shall be behind the rear building line of the main dwelling.
      (1)   No single accessory building may be larger than 100% of the size of
the primary structure as per the most recent TAD records.
      (2)   (a)   The total square footage of all accessory buildings/
structures, detached garages, RV buildings and carports shall not exceed 10% of
the total land behind the main dwelling.
         (b)   The total square footage will be determined by the space covered
by the roof of the building.
      (3)   There will be a minimum spacing of ten feet between all structures.
      (4)   These structures shall not be erected closer than ten feet to any
property line/easement located in the back yard if they have a permanent
foundation or five feet if they do not have a fixed foundation.
      (5)   All structures located 25 feet or closer to the principal building
will use complementary exterior building materials and colors to the main
building.
      (6)   Are not to be equipped for or used for human habitation.
      (7)   They may have normal residential utilities.
      (8)   No accessory buildings/structures, detached garages, RV buildings
shall be constructed or placed on a lot until the construction of the principal
building has been started.
         (a)   An accessory buildings/structures, detached garages, RV
buildings may be built at the same time as the main structure but shall not be
used until the main structure is completed and is being used.
         (b)   The contractor shall be permitted to place and use a temporary
storage building for construction purpose.
   (B)   Accessory building/structures: a building or structure that is
primarily used for storage or other secondary use on the property.
      (1)   (a)   All accessory buildings/structures on the property shall be a
single story in height.
         (b)   The height is not to exceed the height of the main structures
primary roof peak.
      (2)   These shall include, but not be limited to: storage, greenhouses,
pool cabanas or equipment storage, and workshops.
      (3)   Any accessory building with an opening of ten feet wide or larger
shall have paved flooring and shall have a paved surface leading to it as
required by §
151.027 of this chapter.
   (C)   Detached garages.  A structure that is designed and intended primarily
to park and shelter a motor vehicle.
      (1)   Can be located as close as five feet to the main dwelling.
      (2)   Shall have a solid/hard surface foundation floor.
      (3)   Shall have a paved flooring and shall have a paved surface leading
to it as required by §
151.027 of this chapter.
      (4)   (a)   All detached garages on the property shall be a single story
in height.
         (b)   The height is not to exceed the height of the main structures
primary roof peak nor exceed the primary pitch of the roof of the primary
structure.
      (5)   Shall have an exit door open to the yard.
   (D)   RV buildings.  An enclosed building that is designed and intended
primarily to park and shelter an RV motorized vehicle or recreational trailer
in excess of 20 feet in length, that has doors of a size capable of opening and
admitting the RV vehicle/trailer.
      (1)   (a)   All RV buildings on the property shall be a single story in
height.
         (b)   The height is not to exceed the height of the main structures
primary roof peak nor exceed the primary pitch of the roof of the primary
structure.
      (2)   Shall have a solid/hard surface foundation/floor.
      (3)   Shall have paved flooring and shall have a paved surface leading to
it as required by §
151.027 of this chapter.
      (4)   Shall have an exit door open to the yard side.
   (E)   Exceptions and variances.
      (1)   Area, setback and height requirements may be granted relief upon
approval of a special exception by the Zoning Board of Adjustment (ZBA).
      (2)   Denied permits can be appealed to the ZBA for a variance.
      (3)   By state law, for the approval of a variance by the ZBA, the
applicant must demonstrate a hardship other than economic.
   (F)   Permits.
      (1)   No permit is required for the following:
         (a)   Children’s play structures of less than 100 square feet.
         (b)   Structures used for agricultural needs that are temporary and
without a permanent foundation or used for shelter of animals.  However such
structures shall be included in the 10% rule of division (A)(2)(a) of this
section.
         (c)   Division (F)(1)(a) and (b) shall not be included in division (A)
(1) of this section.
         (d)   Portable storage buildings/shed less than 100 square feet
without a permanent foundation: this structure shall be included in the 10%
rule of division (A)(2)(a) of this section.
      (2)   A permit shall be required for the following:
         (a)   Permitted structures will be included in the 10% rule of
division (A)(2)(a) of this section.
         (b)   Portable storage buildings/shed that is 100 square feet or
greater and has a floor area not exceeding 320 square feet.
            1.   If less than 168 square feet may be of commercial metal “kit”
construction.
            2.   Must be properly secured to prevent overturning with a method
acceptable to the building official.
         (c)   Structures with a permanent foundation of any size.
      (3)   Permit process.
         (a)   A town permit application must be completed and filed for review
and approval.
         (b)   1.   The permit application shall include a plat copy and
drawing indicating the location of the proposed structure, any easements,
distance from side and rear property lines, distance from the main structure,
spacing from other buildings, the total square footage of the land and the
total of square footage of all other buildings behind the main structure, and
distance to utility lines, sewer systems, and water wells.
            2.   Separation from utilities lines, sewer systems, and water
wells shall be in accordance with other town ordinances.
         (c)   Plans of the proposed structure: two sets of plans are required
and shall confirm with the currently adopted IBC.
            1.   Structures under 250 square feet:
               (i)   Plans can be hand drawn or computer generated showing the
length, width and height dimensions of the floor/slab, the roof and the four
walls elevations;
               (ii)   Show details of walls, roof and foundation construction;
and
               (iii)   A description and list of the materials to be used.
            2.   Structures over 250 square feet.
               (i)   Plans can be hand drawn or computer generated showing the
length, width and height dimensions of the floor/slab, the roof and the four
walls elevations;
               (ii)   Show details of walls, roof and foundation construction;
and
               (iii)   A description and list of the material to be used.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 339, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 151.025.01  CARPORTS.
   (A)   Existing structures.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to any carports or RV shelters
existing as of the effective date of this section except and unless substantial
repairs or alterations are performed on same.
      (2)   SUBSTANTIAL shall mean work performed on more than 25% of the
structure.
      (3)   If the 25% rule is exceeded the structure will require a new permit
and the structure must meet all requirements of the current ordinance in effect
at time of repairs.
   (B)   Building permits.
      (1)   In all sections of the town zoned R-1 or R-2, a building permit
must be obtained before erecting a new or starting substantial repairs on a
carport.
         (a)   A town permit application must be completed and filed for review
and approval.
         (b)   The permit application shall include a plat copy and drawing
indicating the location of the proposed structure, any easements, distance from
side and rear property lines, distance from the main structure, spacing from
other buildings, the total square footage of the land and the total of square
footage of all other buildings behind the main structure, and distance to
utility lines, sewer systems, and water wells.
         (c)   Plans of the proposed structure: two sets of plans are required
and plans must meet any and all adopted building codes.
      (2)   A building permit issued for the construction or repair of a
carport shall be effective for a period of six months.  An extension, not to
exceed 60 days, may be granted for good cause by the Town Building Official,
but only if it appears probable that work will be completed promptly.
      (3)   Any partially completed carport shall be deemed to be a substandard
structure after the expiration of the building permit and shall be removed by
the owner of the property within ten days from the date of notice given to the
occupant or owner by the town.  If it is not removed within ten days, then the
town may take steps to demolish and remove same and all cost thereof shall be
billed to and paid by the owner.  If payment is not made within 30 days after
the bill of costs is sent, then the town may take legal action to collect same
as well as all costs, including attorney fees’ and administrative fees, and
interest at the maximum rate allowed by law, and/or the town may cut off any
utility furnished by the town until same is paid along with a reconnect fee for
the utility.
   (C)   Standards.
      (1)   Carports within the town shall be permitted in all sections that
are zoned R-1 or R-2, or the successor to those zoning districts.
      (2)   No portion of it may be located within 15 feet of the surveyed
front, or rear surveyed property line or ten feet of a surveyed side property
line.
      (3)   All carports that are erected behind the rear building line of the
main dwelling shall be included in the 10% land usage rule.
         (a)   The total square footage of all accessory buildings/structures,
detached garages, RV buildings and carports shall not exceed 10% of the total
land behind the main dwelling.
         (b)   The total square footage will be determined by the space covered
by the roof of the building.
         (c)   There will be a minimum spacing of 10 feet between all
structures except for carports as provided in division (C)(6) below.
      (4)   It may have a flat roof or pitched roof:
         (a)   Flat roof.  The top of the roof may not exceed eight feet as
measured from the finished parking surface.
         (b)   Pitched roof.
            1.   The opening may not exceed eight feet as measured from the
finished parking surface.
            2.   The peak of the roof line shall not exceed 12 feet or be
taller than the adjacent roof line of the main structure as measured from the
finished parking surface, whichever is shorter.
      (5)   The structure, either wood or metal, that is less than one foot
from the main structure shall be attached to the residence.
      (6)   It shall have paved flooring and shall have a paved surface leading
to it as required by §
151.027 of this chapter.
      (7)   Separation from utilities lines, sewer systems, and water wells
shall be in accordance with other town ordinances.
   (D)   Materials.
      (1)   It may be constructed of either wood or metal, but not corrugated
metal.
      (2)   The exposed view of the horizontal and vertical members of the
structure shall be painted the same color as the residence and trim.
      (3)   The carport shall have a perimeter edge that matches, in form or
finish, or is similar to, the fascia edge of the residence.
   (E)   If an application for a permit to build a carport is denied because
the proposed structure fails to meet the standards established in this section,
then the applicant may appeal to the BOA for an exception to such standards. 
The appeal shall be taken within 15 days time after the decision has been
rendered, by filing with the Town Administrator a notice of appeal specifying
the grounds thereof.  The Town Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the
BOA all papers constituting the record upon which the action being appealed was
taken.  The appeal or application shall be in such form and shall contain the
information as the BOA may require under its rules of procedures.  Every
application for an exception shall be accompanied by a filing fee in an amount
sufficient to defray the actual cost of proceeding the application, including
the cost of having a building official present at the appeal hearing to provide
facts and information.  The application fee shall be established and amended by
resolution of the City Council.
      (1)   Official written notice of the public hearing on every application
for exceptions shall be sent to all owners of property, or persons rendering
the same for taxes, and within 200 feet of the property made subject of the
exception.  Any person may speak at the public hearing on the application.
      (2)   A hearing shall be conducted by the BOA on the application for an
exception within 60 days from the date of appeal.
      (3)   Exceptions shall not be granted unless the BOA makes an affirmative
finding to all the following requirements:
         (a)   That the literal enforcement of the standard and requirements
will create an unnecessary hardship or practical difficulty in the development
of the affected property, if the application concerns a new residential
structure to be placed on the property;
         (b)   That the situation causing the hardship or difficulty is not
self-imposed;
         (c)   That the relief sought will not injure or cause loss of market
value to adjacent property; and
         (d)   That the granting of the variance will be in harmony with the
spirit and purpose of these regulations.
      (4)   BOA shall make its decision on any application within 30 days from
the time that the initial hearing is held or the application will be deemed to
have been denied.
      (5)   In approving any request, the Board may designate the conditions
including time limits, if appropriate, in connection therewith in order to
secure substantially the objectives of the regulation or provision to which the
variance is granted and to provide adequately for the maintenance of the
integrity and character of the zone in which the permit is granted.
         (a)   When necessary, the BOA may require guarantees, in the form as
it deems proper, to ensure that conditions designated in connection with the
exception are being or will be complied with.
         (b)   Upon approval of an application for a variance appeal, the
applicant shall apply for a building permit within 60 days after the BOA’s
decision unless a greater time is requested in the application and is
authorized by the BOA.  Any approval may be granted one emergency extension of
60 days on written request filed with the BOA before expiration of the original
approval.  Failure of the applicant to apply for the permit within the
authorized time period shall void the right to secure the permit except upon
the filing of a new application or appeal.
(Ord. 359, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 151.026  TEMPORARY USES AND SPECIAL EVENTS.
   (A)   Generally.  Certain temporary uses of land are essential to the full
development and utilization of the land and are deemed to promote the health,
safety, and general welfare of the town. The temporary uses and special events
hereinafter enumerated shall not be deemed violations of this chapter when
conducted under the conditions herein provided.
   (B)   Permitted temporary uses.  The permitted temporary uses, the
conditions of use, the zoning districts wherein the same shall be permitted,
and approvals required are as follows:
      (1)   Construction office.  Temporary field or construction offices and
temporary building material storage areas to be used solely for on-premise
construction purposes in connection with the property on which they are
erected, or within the same platted subdivision may be permitted in all zoning
districts when approved by the administrative official. The application for a
temporary use permit shall include a scale drawing showing the location and
size of the building(s), all outside storage areas, and proposed construction
fencing. Such permit shall be issued for temporary buildings on construction
sites for a period of six months, with a renewal clause for a similar period.
Such buildings must be removed within 30 days after substantial completion or
abandonment of such new construction to which they are accessory, or upon the
request of the administrative official or his or her designee.
      (2)   Temporary outdoor sales on properties zoned C by the existing
occupants of existing businesses of such properties, may be permitted by the
town enforcement officer for a period not to exceed 30 days upon the
application and granting of a temporary use permit.
         (a)   In no event shall such temporary uses be allowed for more than
30 consecutive days or more than once per year. All sales shall meet the
special conditions, if any, imposed by the town enforcement officer and/or Fire
Marshal for the protection of public interest and the welfare of the community.
         (b)   No tent or similar structure shall be erected in any required
setback or designated easement. Tents shall conform to the Uniform Fire Code
and no tent shall be erected without first obtaining a permit.  No outside use
of property for sales will be allowed except by the existing occupants of the
property. This includes parking of vehicles for a purpose other than conducting
business on the premises.
         (c)   The temporary outdoor sale of Christmas trees may be permitted
on those properties zoned C for a period of 40 days prior to Christmas Day. The
administrative official may issue a permit for such sale when it is found that
there is available adequate off-street parking area, either improved or
unimproved, as determined by the building official; and that location and
layout of drives, parking areas, lighting, and sale signs will not constitute a
hazard to public travel on the abutting public streets. Trees, stands,
equipment, trash, signs, lighting and shelters shall be removed by the permit
holder no later than January 4.
         (d)   Carnivals and circuses may be allowed as a temporary use for a
period not exceeding  14 consecutive days. Such events shall be on a site in
the C zoning districts. Adequate parking and sanitary facilities shall be made
available to the satisfaction of the building official. No carnival or circus
shall begin operation before 8:00 a.m. and operation shall cease before 11:00
p.m. on all nights except on Saturday when the event shall cease operation at
midnight. The administrative official shall establish the terms and conditions
for the temporary use at the time of approval. In the event that a sponsor is
dissatisfied with the administrative official's decision, the sponsor may
appeal the requested use to the Town Council.
   (C)   Permitted special events.  For the purpose of this section, SPECIAL
EVENTS are defined as any activity or event meeting the following criteria:
      (1)   The event of activity is carried on for a period of time not
exceeding three consecutive days;
      (2)   No retail sales are conducted except those incidental to the
primary activity such as refreshment and souvenir sales. Charitable and
nonprofit organizations may conduct retail sales for fund-raising purposes in
any zoning district;
      (3)   Public assemblies carried on out-of-doors or in temporary shelters
or tents.
   (D)   Contents of application.  An application for approval of a temporary
use or special event, which is submitted one week prior to the Council meeting
for which it will be considered, shall include the following information:
      (1)   Brief description of the event;
      (2)   Exact location;
      (3)   Expected attendance;
      (4)   Anticipated number of automobiles and proposed methods of providing
parking for the same;
      (5)   Location and construction of any temporary signs to be used in
connection with the event;
      (6)   Exact dates of commencement and termination of the event;
      (7)   Signed certification by the responsible party and the record owner
of the land that all information provided is true and correct and that all
schedules will be strictly adhered to;
      (8)   A fee in accordance with the Town of Lakeside fee schedule.
   (E)   Approval by Town Administrator.  Approval of a permit for a temporary
use or special event must be approved by the Town Administrator, and may be
deferred to the Town Council if deemed necessary by the Administrator.
(Ord. 312, passes 6-22-2010)
§ 151.027  OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever any ordinance, regulation, or plan, enacted or adopted by the Town
Council is for the purpose of providing off-street automobile parking spaces or
of establishing requirements that such spaces be provided within any section or
sections of the Town, then such plan or requirements shall govern within such
sections. Otherwise off-street automobile parking spaces shall be provided as
follows, applicable to buildings hereafter erected and uses hereafter
established, to such nonconforming uses as may be required to conform to the
regulations hereof, and to extensions and enlargements of buildings and uses.
   (A)   Parking Table.  Except as otherwise provided in this section, off-
street parking spaces shall be provided as follows:
Schedule of Parking Requirements
Land Use Requirements Additional Requirements
Residential
Schedule of Parking Requirements
Land Use                    Requirements        Additional Requirements
Residential
Single-family detached      2/unit
units
Duplex                      2/unit              None
Townhouse, condominium,
duplex, triplex, quadruplex 3/unit              None
or row
                            1.5/1 bed unit
Multifamily                 2/2 bed unit        None
                            2.5/3 bed unit
HUD Code manufactured home  2/unit              None
                                                1 additional space for 200
                                                sq. feet of exhibit or
Boarding or rooming house,                      ballroom space, plus 1 space
hotel or motel/residence    1 residential unit  per 100 sq. feet of meeting
motel or inn                                    rooms, plus 1 space per 2.5
                                                seats in restaurant and
                                                lounge
Retirement housing;
ambulatory independent      1.5/unit            None
residents
Retirement housing; nursing 1/2 beds            None
home facilities
Dormitory                   1.5/2 occupants for None
                            designed occupancy
Fraternity, sorority or     1/125 sq. feet      None
lodge
 
Schedule of Parking Requirements
Land Use Requirements Additional Requirements
Institutional
Schedule of Parking Requirements
Land Use                    Requirements                Additional Requirements
Institutional
Community center            1/4 persons                 None
Schools:                    20 spaces plus 1/25
Elementary                  students
Junior High                 20 spaces plus 1/18         None
Senior High                 students
Trade                       20 spaces plus 1/5 students
                            20 spaces plus 1/4 students
Public assembly hall        1/3 seats                   None
College or university       1/4 day students            None
Church                      1/3 seats in the sanctuary  None
                            or auditorium
Day care or day nursery     1/5 pupils                  None
Hospital                    1.5/bed                     None
Mortuary or funeral home    1/4 seats in chapel         None
Recreational
Theater                     1/4 seats                   None
Bowling alley               4/lane                      None
Pool hall, arcade, other    1/100 sq. feet or floor     None
indoor commercial amusement area
Outdoor commercial          1/500 sq. feet of site area None
amusement                   exclusive of building
Ballpark or stadium         1/4 seats                   None
Lodge or fraternal          1/125 sq. feet of floor     None
organization                area
Driving range               1/10 linear feet of         None
                            designated tee area
Miniature golf              1/tee                       None
                            1/250 sq. feet of floor
Personal service shop       area up to 5,000 sq. feet,  None
                            then 1/200 sq. feet
                            1/250 sq. feet of floor
Indoor retail store or shop area up to 5,000 sq. feet,  None
                            then 1/200 sq. feet
Outdoor retail sales        1/500 sq. feet of site      None
                            area, exclusive of building
Furniture, appliance sales  1/600 sq. feet of floor     None
or repair                   area
Coin-operated or self-      1/200 sq. feet of floor
service laundry or dry      area                        None
cleaner
Shopping center, mall and   1/250 sq. feet of floor
multi-occupancy uses (3 -   area                        None
50 acres)
Shopping center, mall and   1/300 sq. feet of floor
multi-occupancy uses (over  area                        None
50 acres)
 
Schedule of Parking Requirements
Land Use Requirements Additional Requirements
Recreational (cont'd)
Schedule of Parking Requirements
Land Use                  Requirements               Additional Requirements
Recreational (cont'd)
Eating or drinking
establishment (no drive-  1/2.5 seats                None
thru service)
Eating or drinking
establishment (with       1/150 sq. feet             None
drive-thru service and
all others)
Business Services
Bank and savings and loan 1/300 sq. feet of floor
or other similar          area                       None
institution
Medical, dental clinic or 1/150 sq. feet of floor    None
office                    area
Veterinary clinic         1/300 sq. feet of floor    None
                          area
Other office or           1/250 sq. feet of floor    None
professional business     area
Automotive and Equipment
Service station           Minimum of 6               None
Auto repair garage or     1/350 sq. feet of floor    None
shop                      area
Auto repair accessory     1/300 sq. feet of floor    None
sales                     area
Vehicle or machinery      1/500 sq. feet of floor    None
sales (indoors)           area
Car wash (full-serve)     3 stacking spaces          None
Wash bay                  None
Car wash (self-serve or   3 stacking spaces/wash bay None
automatic)
Brick or lumber yard      1/3 employees or 1/1,000   (whichever results in more
                          sq. feet or floor area     spaces)
Manufacturing or          1/3 employees or 1/1,000   (whichever results in more
warehousing               sq. feet or floor area     spaces)
Outside storage           1/5,000 sq. feet of floor  None
                          area
Mini-warehouse            1/3,000 sq. feet of floor  None
                          area
 
   (B)   Handicapped spaces ("H").
      (1)   All areas of newly designed or newly constructed buildings and
facilities required to be accessible under federal and state law shall comply
with the standards set forth in the Texas Accessibility Standards of the
Architectural Barriers Act.
      (2)   The dimensions of each "H" parking space shall be 12 feet wide and
18 feet long.
      (3)   Each and every "H" parking space required by this section of the
parking regulations or by other applicable regulations shall be clearly
identified as reserved for the handicapped.
      (4)   The number of "H" parking spaces required shall be determined by
the following table:
Total Parking Spaces Provided Number of Accessible Spaces
Total Parking Spaces Provided Number of Accessible Spaces
1 to 25                       1
26 to 50                      2
51 to 75                      3
76 to 100                     4
101 to 150                    5
151 to 200                    6
201 to 300                    7
301 to 400                    8
401 to 500                    9
501 to 1,000                  2% of total
More than 1,000               20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
   (C)   Off-street loading requirements.
      (1)   In the following cases all retail, office and service buildings
shall provide and maintain off-street facilities for the loading and unloading
of merchandise and goods within the building or on the lot adjacent to a public
alley or private service drive to facilitate the movement of traffic on the
public streets:
         (a)   When deliveries are made by truck more than once a day between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
         (b)   When the time of loading and unloading materials or goods
exceeds ten minutes between those hours
      (2)   Individual loading space dimensions shall be required as a minimum
to be 35 feet in length, 12 feet in width with a height clearance of 15 feet.
      (3)   The number of off-street loading spaces shall be placed according
to the following table:
 
Square Feet of Gross Floor Area in Structure Maximum Required Spaces or Berths
0 to 10,000                                  None
10,000 to 50,000                             1
50,000 to 100,000                            2
100,000 to 200,000                           3
Each additional 200,000                      1 additional
 
      (4)   Mixed use buildings.  Where a building or a site contains two or
more uses, the off-street parking requirement shall be computed as the sum of
the required off-street parking spaces for each individual use with the
exception of shopping centers and multi-use purposes.
 
Parking                          Minimum Aisle Width Aisle      Module Width
Angle    Stall Width Stall Depth One-Way Two-Way     Length Per One-Way Two-Way
                                                     Stall
(A)      (B)         (C)         (D1)    (D2)        (E)        (F1)    (F2)
Parallel 8.0         8.0         12.0    18.0        22.0       28.0    34.0
45       9.0         19.1        12.0    24.0        12.7       50.2    62.2
60       9.0         20.1        18.0    24.0        10.4       58.2    64.2
90       9.0         18.0        24.0    24.0        9.0        60.0    60.0
 
      (5)   Drive lane widths and parking space sizes.  Drive lanes and parking
space sizes shall be required as shown in the following illustration. A
driveway for access to any nonresidential, single parking space or to a parking
lot shall not measure less than that shown in the parking layout illustration.
All drive approach widths shall be no less than those indicated in the below
graphic. All two-way drive lanes shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width.
Parking spaces shall be nine feet wide by 18 feet deep for all 90 degree
parking spaces. Angled spaces shall be as shown in the preceding graphic.
      (6)   On-premise parking required.  All required commercial and
residential parking spaces shall be located on the premises to which such
requirement applies or within an off-street space of which the distance is not
more than 300 feet from such premises.
      (7)   Surface.  The surface of parking spaces and aisles, truck standing
spaces, and access driveways therefor shall be treated, prepared and maintained
for adequate drainage and the elimination of dust, dirt, and mud, according to
town specifications.
      (8)   Reduction. In cases where the applicant can provide documentation
that parking spaces exceed the amount necessary for the use and that a
reasonable alteration of spaces may be provided, said reduction shall not
represent more than 15% of the total required spaces and shall require a
special exception from the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (9)   Maintenance requirements.  To insure that all requirements set
forth in this section are carried forward, it will be the responsibility of the
owner of the parking area to maintain the facility. All off-street parking
areas shall be kept free of trash, debris, vehicle repair operation or display
and advertising uses. At no time after initial approval of the parking area
layout can changes be made in the location and number of provided spaces
without approval of the town inspector.
   (D)   Residential off-street parking:
      (1)   Purpose.  It is recognized that uncontrolled residential off-street
parking, specifically in residential front yards, is a public nuisance. The
purpose of this division is to provide for the regulation of residential off-
street parking and to specify the requirements for residential off-street
parking as they pertain to the appearance and the health, safety, and welfare
of the town.
      (2)   Surface. Driveways may be constructed of concrete, asphalt, or
crushed rock. The driveway and parking surface must be clearly delineated from
the yard area.
      (3)   Restrictions. Unless otherwise provided by town ordinance, it shall
be illegal for any person to park or to allow to be parked on any property
under his or her control any automobile, bus, truck, motorcycle, trailer, or
boat on any portion of a front yard or side yard of any area which is zoned as
R1 or R2, Single-Family Residential or in any commercially zoned area being
used for residential purposes, unless:
         (a)   Said area is a part of a gravel driveway bordered by concrete
curbing or similar permanent border; and
         (b)   Said area is a part of a required hard-surface, all-weather
driveway that provides access to a garage, carport or off-street parking area
required by this chapter.
      (4)   Drive width. A driveway for access residential property shall not
be less than 12 feet in width, nor more than 30 feet in width, at the property
line along the street.
   (E)   Special events and other one-time events.SPECIAL EVENT means a
festival, celebration, performance or other such special event which occurs no
more frequently than once per year, and which will or should be reasonably
anticipated to attract patrons or visitors in such numbers as to exceed the
capacity of the permanent parking spaces required and provided under other
provisions of this section for the property upon which the special event is to
be held. Events which are conducted more frequently than once per year are not
considered SPECIAL EVENTS under the provisions of this division and the
property upon which these events are conducted must conform to the other
provisions of this subchapter concerning parking requirements.
      (1)   The persons or entities conducting any such special event shall
submit to the administrative official at least 45 business days prior to said
event a plan for the accommodation and parking of vehicles of persons
reasonably expected to attend such event. The plan must include, at a minimum,
the following information:
         (a)   A description and the address of the premises where the event is
to be held;
         (b)   A description and the address of any property, other than the
premises described in division (a) above, where parking is to be provided for
patrons or visitors to the event;
         (c)   The name and address of the owner of the premises upon which
parking for the event is to be provided, and a statement describing the terms
and conditions of the agreement whereby the owner of such premises has
authorized their use for parking;
         (d)   The dates and times that the event is to be held;
         (e)   The measures which will be taken by the persons or entities
conducting the special event to ensure safe and orderly traffic flow to and
from the event site and any parking area;
         (f)   A plan or diagram of the proposed layout of the parking scheme
upon the property to be used for parking for such event.
      (2)   All parking for any such special event shall be provided off-street
and on an area and surface reasonably anticipated to be dry and safe for
vehicular and pedestrian traffic. No public property or rights-of-way may be
utilized or included in such parking areas except upon express, prior written
permission by the Town Council.
      (3)   Subject to the above requirements, the surface of such parking
areas need not be paved or otherwise surfaced as required by the other
provisions of this subchapter for permanent parking areas, but it must be
suitable for the type and amount of vehicular and pedestrian traffic reasonably
anticipated for the special event at issue.
      (4)   Upon submittal of the required parking plan to the town, the
administrative official shall review it and shall advise the applicants whether
any changes or modifications to said plan will be required. The administrative
official has the sole discretion to approve or reject, or require modifications
to, any parking plan required hereunder. No vehicles may be parked in any
location not otherwise allowed under other divisions of this section, in
connection with any special event, unless and until the Town Council has issued
a written approval of the parking plan of the special event.
      (5)   Such written permission may be revoked at any time by the Town
Council if it is found that false or misleading information was contained in
the proposed parking plan.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.028  SCREENING DEVICES AND FENCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Screening requirements.  The intent of this section is to provide for
visual screening between land uses of different character and to establish
requirements for the installation and maintenance of screening devices to
enhance the community's aesthetic qualities. A screening device shall be a
solid, opaque, brick, stone or decorative block masonry wall, not less than six
feet in height, measured at the highest finished grade. Screening devices may
be of metal construction and wrought iron. Live shrubs the height of the fence
or wall may also be incorporated with wrought iron to produce an opaque screen.
Construction and location details of the required screening devices shall be
shown as part of the site plan for all multifamily and nonresidential uses and
as part of the final plat construction plans for all single-family residential
uses. The screening wall shall be compatible in color and finish with the
principal building(s) and or existing screening walls. The required screening
wall shall be constructed prior to any building permits being issued for
single-family residential subdivisions and before issuance of a certificate of
occupancy for non-single-family developments. For the purpose of this section,
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION shall be defined as a subdivision
containing two or more lots.
      (1)   Applicability. These screening regulations shall apply to all new
construction. Existing fences and walls shall be exempt from regulation.
However, upon increasing the total footprint of structures by more than 50%,
shall require compliance with this section as being new construction.
      (2)   Relief. The Town Council may, upon recommendation by the Planning
and Zoning Commission, waive the screening requirement in part or in total upon
demonstration by the applicant that such relief is merited.
      (3)   Single-family residential screening requirement.  All new
construction, as of the effective date of this chapter, single-family detached
and attached residential subdivisions adjacent to major thoroughfares, as
identified on the Lakeside Thoroughfare Plan, shall be screened from the
street. This includes all lots backing or siding on a thoroughfare. A screening
wall is also required where an alley is parallel to and adjacent to a public
street. Where single-family lots side on a major thoroughfare, a combination of
masonry and wrought iron design may be considered if the non-masonry material
does not exceed 40% of the surface of the screening wall. If using a
combination of wrought iron and masonry, an evergreen shrub, achieving a six-
foot height within one year of planting, shall be planted on the interior side
of the wrought iron portion of the wall.
      (4)   Screening wall articulation.  Screening walls adjacent to
thoroughfares or collector streets shall be constructed to the following
standards:
         (a)   Off-sets shall be provided every 100 feet or less;
         (b)   Off-sets shall be designed to be located at lot line
intersections;
         (c)   Off-sets shall be a minimum of three feet in depth and eight
feet in length;
         (d)   Live plant materials shall be incorporated in the design of the
off-sets;
         (e)   Off-set sections of the screening wall may be constructed of
alternate non-masonry materials such as ornamental iron; and
         (f)   A five-foot perimeter screening wall and landscape easement
shall be dedicated for the perimeter improvements.
      (5)   Screening wall between single-family and multifamily zoning
districts.  As of the effective date of this chapter, there shall be
constructed a structural screening wall of not less than six feet in height
along any portion of multifamily residential zoning districts, which adjoins
any single-family detached and attached zoning district, mobile home park or
mobile home subdivision.
         (a)   The construction of the screening wall is the responsibility of
the multifamily property owner. However, if a single-family residential
subdivision is being constructed adjacent to an existing multifamily use, with
no screening wall in place, the construction responsibility will shift to the
single-family residential developer/owner.
         (b)   A combination of masonry and wrought iron design may be
considered if the non-masonry material does not exceed 40% of the surface of
the screening wall. If using a combination of wrought iron and masonry, an
evergreen shrub, achieving a six-foot height within one year of planting shall
be planted on the interior side of the wrought iron portion of the wall.
      (6)   Screening wall between commercial and residential uses. There shall
be constructed a screening wall of not less than six feet along any portion of
an office use and a screening wall of not less than eight feet along any
portion of a commercial, retail, industrial or warehouse use, which adjoins any
portion of a single-family detached or attached residential, multifamily
residential, mobile home park or mobile home subdivision zoning district.
         (a)   The construction of the screening wall is the responsibility of
the commercial or industrial property owner. However, if a single-family
residential subdivision or a multifamily residential use is being constructed
adjacent to an existing commercial or industrial use with no screening wall in
place, the construction responsibility will shift to the residential developer/
owner.
         (b)   Screening requirement for institutional uses (schools and
churches, etc.) in commercial zoning will be considered on a case-by-case
basis.
      (7)   Screening wall requirement for manufactured housing parks and
subdivisions. All manufactured housing parks and subdivisions shall be screened
by a screening wall of not less than six feet in height on all sides.
         (a)   The construction of the screening wall is the responsibility of
the mobile home park or subdivision property owner. However, if a single-family
residential subdivision is being constructed adjacent to an existing
manufactured housing park or subdivision with no screening wall in place, the
construction responsibility will shift to the single-family residential
developer/owner.
      (8)   Screening requirement for outside storage.  In all zoning districts
where outside storage of equipment, material, goods and supplies is allowed,
all outside storage shall be screened from the view of any adjacent public
street by a screening wall not less than eight feet in height.
         (a)   Any portion of the storage yard adjacent to or fronting a street
shall be screened with an eight-foot decorative fence.
         (b)   Materials and supplies may not be stacked higher than the height
of the fence.
         (c)   Other portions of the storage yard not adjacent to or fronting a
street may be fenced with a solid, opaque fence.
         (d)   This provision does not apply to display of goods for sale
incidental to a retail use, plant nursery, sales and rental of motor vehicles,
mobile homes, boats or trailers.
   (F)   Fencing requirements. 
      (1)   On a corner lot in any district, nothing shall be erected, placed,
planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede vision
between a height of two and one-half and ten feet above the centerline grades
of the intersecting streets in the area bounded by the street lines of such
corner lots and a line joining points along said street lines 25 feet from the
point of the intersection.
      (2)   On an interior lot in any district, nothing shall be erected,
placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to materially impede the
vision or in any way create a traffic hazard to motorists entering or exiting
any public highway, street, alley or private street or driveway from or to
adjacent private property.
      (3)   No screening element shall be erected or placed which would
interfere with the installation or maintenance of any public utility line,
service or drainageway, within the easements reserved therefor.
      (4)   Garbage, refuse and trash collection and storage areas in non-
residential districts shall be fully enclosed by a suitable screening element
of not less than six feet in height.
      (5)   Electric fences are expressly prohibited in all districts except
those where agricultural and related principal activities are permitted,
provided such fences shall be plainly marked at appropriate intervals as to the
nature thereof.
      (6)   Barbed wire fences used in conjunction with permitted agricultural
uses and activities in the agricultural zoning district are permitted, provided
the building official deems there is no safety hazard related issues associated
with said fence. Barbed wire fencing is expressly prohibited in all other
zoning districts.
      (7)   Razor wire fencing, or other similar material, is strictly
prohibited in residential zoning districts. When used in other districts, razor
wire fencing must be a minimum of eight feet in height.
   (G)   Fences in residential districts.
      (1)   Screening elements and fences shall be restricted to a maximum
height of six feet, measured from the adjacent grade line, except as otherwise
allowed in this section. Fences may be permitted to be constructed to heights
exceeding six feet by special exception as approved by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
      (2)   Garbage, refuse and trash collection and storage areas in any
multifamily development, mobile home development or other nonresidential use
permitted in a residential district shall be fully enclosed on three sides by a
dense screening element to adequately screen such area from view of the
surrounding area.
      (3)   No screening element or fence shall be erected, placed or planted
beyond the front or side street building line of any permitted building in a
residential district, either on a corner lot or interior lot. Fences may be
constructed to the street property line upon approval of a special exception by
the Zoning Board of Adjustment. Fencing located on or behind the building line
shall not exceed six feet in height.
      (4)   Fences may always be permitted on the side property lines of
interior lots, provided drainage easements and other rights-of-way are not
conflicting with the fence location.
      (5)   Wood panel fences shall be constructed such that the support rails
are located on the inside of the lot and the panel is located on the outside of
the lot, so as to present a "smooth side out" appearance to the fence. And
shall be constructed with metal poles or masonry column.
      (6)   Chain link fences shall be permitted in residentially zoned
districts.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.029  WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose.  Certain radio equipment used in transmitting and receiving
signal energy are essential and are deemed to promote the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the town. The placement of such equipment
shall be located such that the health, safety, welfare, and aesthetic quality
of the community shall not be compromised. Therefore the regulations governing
the location of such equipment shall consider the aesthetic quality of the
community equal to the health, safety, and general welfare of the community.
The antennas, masts, and towers hereinafter enumerated shall not be deemed
violations of this chapter when made under the conditions herein provided.
   (B)   Definitions.  See §
151.042(C) for wireless communications facilities definitions.
   (C)   Residentially zones districts - amateur radio equipment and TV
antennas.  Amateur radio equipment, including ham radio and CB equipment and
personal use TV antennas, shall be allowed in the R1, R2, MF, and MH zoning
districts if they comply with the following regulations:
      (1)   Antenna facilities may be building attached, monopoles, or lattice
towers.
      (2)   Up to three antenna facilities may be located on a lot of record,
co-location is encouraged.
      (3)   An antenna facility, exclusive of the height of any antenna or
mast, shall not exceed 35 feet in height. Provided, however, that an antenna
facility shall be permitted additional height at the ratio of one added foot in
height for each additional foot of setback beyond the minimum setback required
of an accessory building in the zoning district regulations contained in §
151.025. Regardless of the above, the maximum height for a tower permitted
without a special exception in any residential district shall be 65 feet.
      (4)   The height of an antenna, including the height of any antenna
facility to which they may be fastened or attached shall not exceed 65 feet in
height without a special exception.
      (5)   An antenna not fastened to an antenna facility shall not exceed 50
feet without a special exception, except for an antenna which does not extend
more than eight feet above a building on which it is mounted.
      (6)   An antenna facility shall be limited to having the number and size
of antennas attached to it that are allowed by the antenna facility
manufacturer's designs and specifications for maximum wind load requirements.
      (7)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Antennas and antenna facilities shall not be permitted in front
or side yards. Guy wires are not permitted in front yards;
         (b)   Guy wires are permitted in required side and rear yards;
         (c)   Setback for antenna facilities shall be the same as is required
for accessory buildings in residential districts.
      (8)   Separation. There shall be no minimum or maximum separation
requirements for antenna facilities from other structures on the same lot of
record.
      (9)   Antenna facilities shall not be permitted in any easement.
      (10)   Lights.  No auxiliary or outdoor lighting shall be allowed on
antenna facilities located on residentially zoned property except such lights
or lighting as may be required by the Federal Aviation Authority or the Federal
Communications Commission.
      (11)   Construction standards.  A building permit must be obtained prior
to the construction and/or installation of an antenna facility. Antenna
facilities must be installed as per the manufacturers recommendations or under
the seal of a registered professional engineer of the State of Texas.
Regardless of the above, all such antenna facilities must meet the Electronic
Industries Association Standard EIA-222-D, Structural Standards for Steel
Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures and the Building Code.
      (12)   Maintenance.  Antennas and/or antenna facilities obviously not in
use or obviously in need of maintenance as determined by the building official,
shall be removed or brought into compliance within 30 days following notice
given by the building official. This shall not preclude immediate action by the
building official to safeguard life, limb, health, property, and public
welfare.
      (13)   No part of an antenna facility or any attachment thereto may
extend beyond the property lines of the owner of such antenna or antenna
facility.
      (14)   No permit shall be issued for the installation of an antenna
facility on a multi-family structure or property unless a notarized statement
of permission from the owner is presented to the Building Department.
      (15)   All antenna facilities shall be subject to an inspection every
five years by a qualified expert, such inspection to be conducted and charged
for by the town in accordance with provisions in the Building Code.
      (16)   A special exception must be obtained in the residential zoning
districts for any antenna facility which does not comply with the regulations
specified hereinabove.
   (D)   Non-residential districts.  Radio, television, microwave broadcast
relay, receiving towers, transmission and re-transmission facilities, satellite
receiving only earth stations (home dish antenna), and any electronic emission
equipment of a commercial nature shall be allowed in the nonresidential zoning
districts if it complies with the following regulations:
      (1)   Up to three antenna facilities may be located on a lot of record,
co-location is encouraged.
      (2)   Antenna facilities shall be limited to building attached and
monopoles only.
      (3)   An antenna facility, exclusive of the height of any attached
antenna, shall not exceed 35 feet in height.  Provided, however, that an
antenna facility shall be permitted additional height at the ratio of one added
foot in height for each additional foot of setback beyond the minimum setback
required of a accessory building in the zoning district regulations herein.
Regardless of the above, the maximum height for an antenna facility permitted
without a special exception in any nonresidential district shall be 65 feet.
      (4)   With the exception of stealth facilities, the height of an antenna,
including the height of any antenna facility to which they may be fastened or
attached, shall not exceed 65 feet in height without a special exception.
      (5)   With the exception of stealth facilities, an antenna shall not
extend more than eight feet above a building on which it is attached.
      (6)   An antenna facility shall be limited to having the number and size
of antennas attached to it that are allowed by the antenna facility
manufacturer's designs and specifications for maximum wind load requirements.
      (7)   Setbacks.  With the exception of stealth facilities, antennas and
antenna facilities shall not be permitted in front or side yards.
      (8)   Antenna facilities shall not be permitted in any easement.
      (9)   Lights.  No auxiliary or outdoor lighting shall be allowed on
antennas located on residentially zoned property except such lights or lighting
as may be required by the Federal Aviation Authority or the Federal
Communications Commission.
      (10)   Construction standards. A building permit must be obtained prior
to the construction and/or installation of a tower, antenna, or mast. Antenna
facilities must be installed as per the manufacturers recommendations or under
the seal of a registered professional engineer of the State of Texas.
Regardless of the above, all such antenna facility and antennas must meet the
Electronic Industries Association Standard EIA-222-D, Structural Standards for
Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures and the Building Code.
      (11)   Maintenance.  Antenna facilities and antennas obviously not in use
or obviously in need of maintenance as determined by the building official,
shall be removed or brought into compliance within 30 days following notice
given by the building official. This shall not preclude immediate action by the
building official to safeguard life, limb, health, property, and public
welfare.
      (12)   No part of an antenna facility and antennas or any attachment
thereto may extend beyond the property lines of the owner of such antenna or
antenna facility.
      (13)   No permit shall be issued for the installation of an antenna or
antenna facility on a multi-family structure or property unless a notarized
statement of permission from the owner is presented to the Building Department.
      (14)   All antennas, or antenna facilities shall be subject to an
inspection every five years by a qualified expert, such inspection to be
conducted and charged for by the town in accordance with provisions in the
Building Code.
      (15)   A specific use permit must be obtained in nonresidential zoning
districts for any antenna or tower which does not comply with the regulations
specified hereinabove.
      (16)   Stealth facilities, which meet the definition of stealth as
provided in §
151.042(C) shall be exempt from the height and location requirements of this
section.  In addition, the Town Administrator or his or her designee shall be
the final authority as to whether or not any facility meets the definition of
STEALTH.
   (E)   Written report upon denial of request.  The Town of Lakeside shall
document any denial of a request to place, construct, or modify personal
wireless service facilities in writing. Such documentation shall be supported
by substantial evidence within the written record.
   (F)   Satellite receive-only antennas generally.  Satellite receive-only
antennas assist individuals in the receipt of satellite transmitted television
signals. Satellite receive-only antennas shall not be deemed violations of this
chapter when made under the conditions herein provided. Such conditions are
hereby found to be reasonable and clearly defined health, safety and aesthetic
objectives.
   (G)   Satellite receive-only antennas.   A satellite receive-only antenna
shall be allowed if it complies with the following:
      (1)   The satellite receive-only antenna is two meters or less in
diameter and is located or proposed to be located in any area where commercial
or industrial uses are generally permitted by non federal land use regulations;
or
      (2)   The satellite receive-only antenna is less than one meter in
diameter in any residential zoning district.
   (H)   Large satellite receive-only antennas.  Satellite receive-only
antennas that are greater than one meter in diameter in residential districts
or greater than two meters in diameter in non-residential districts shall be
allowed in any zoning district if they comply with the following regulations:
      (1)   Only one satellite receive-only antenna per lot of record;
      (2)   A satellite receive-only antenna shall not exceed ten feet in
height;
      (3)   Setbacks:
         (a)   Front and side.  Satellite receive-only antennas shall not be
permitted in front or side yards;
         (b)   Rear.  Satellite receive-only antennas shall be permitted in
rear yards provided they meet the minimum setback as is required for accessory
buildings in residential districts and as for all buildings in nonresidential
districts;
      (4)   Separation. There shall be no minimum or maximum separation
requirements for satellite receive-only antennas from other structures on the
same lot of record;
      (5)   Satellite receive-only antennas shall not be permitted in
easements;
      (6)   Lights. No auxiliary or outdoor lighting shall be allowed on
satellite receive-only antennas except such lights or lighting as may be
required by the Federal Aviation Authority or the Federal Communications
Commission;
      (7)   Construction standards.  A building permit must be obtained prior
to the construction and/or installation of a satellite receive-only antenna.
Satellite receive-only antennas must be installed as per the manufacturers
recommendations or under the seal of a registered professional engineer of the
State of Texas;
      (8)   Maintenance.  Satellite receive-only antennas obviously not in use
or obviously in need of maintenance as determined by the building official,
shall be removed or brought into compliance within 30 days following notice
given by the building official. This shall not preclude immediate action by the
building official to safeguard life, limb, health, property, and public
welfare;
      (9)   No part of a satellite receive-only antenna or any attachment
thereto may extend beyond the property lines of the owner of such satellite
receive-only antenna;
      (10)   No permit shall be issued for the installation of a satellite
receive-only antenna on a multifamily structure or property unless a notarized
statement of permission from the owner is presented to the Building Department;
      (11)   All satellite receive-only antennas shall be screened from view
from adjoining properties by fencing or evergreen plants. A satellite receive-
only antenna located within a fence surrounding the yard in which the satellite
receive-only antenna is located shall be considered to be screened;
      (12)   A special exception must be obtained for any satellite receive
only antenna which does not comply with the regulations specified hereinabove.
   (I)   Special exception.  A special exception must be obtained for any
antenna, tower, and/or satellite receive-only antenna which does not comply
with the regulations specified in this section, herein above. In considering
whether to grant a special exception from the regulations specified above, the
following shall be considered:
      (1)   The effect on the value of the surrounding property;
      (2)   The potential for interference with the enjoyment of the use of
surrounding properties;
      (3)   Aesthetics;
      (4)   The necessity of the special exception for the public health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens or for governmental purposes;
      (5)   The zoning district and the adjoining zoning districts of the
property for which the special exception is sought;
      (6)   The provisions of 47 C.F.R. § 25.104 which preempt local zoning or
other regulations that differentiate between satellite receive-only antennas
and other types of antenna facilities unless such regulations:
         (a)   Have a clearly defined health, safety or aesthetic objective;
and
         (b)   Further the stated health, safety, or aesthetic objective
without unnecessarily burdening the federal interest in ensuring access to
satellite services and in promoting fair and effective competition among
competing communications service providers;
      (7)   The unique conditions that govern reasonable reception on any given
lot;
      (8)   To properly evaluate all applications to locate commercial antennas
or towers which do not comply with the regulations specified hereinabove the
following information must be provided by the applicant:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the antenna site. Indicate whether the
proposed structure is a monopole or mounted to a self-supporting structure.
Indicate the proposed height.
         (b)   Provide photos or drawings of all equipment, structures and
antenna.
         (c)   Describe why the antenna or tower is necessary.
         (d)   State the name(s) of the telecommunications providers or other
users of the antenna or tower and describe the use to be made by each user.
         (e)   Indicate if this antenna or tower site is to be connected to
other sites; and if so, describe how it will be connected and who will be the
back haul provider.
         (f)   The applicant must address whether or not they have made an
effort to co-locate the facilities proposed for this antenna or tower on
existing towers or facilities in the same general area. Please identify the
location of these existing sites. If yes, please describe in detail these
efforts and explain in detail why these existing sites were not feasible.
Attach all studies or tests performed which demonstrate why the existing sites
will not provide sufficient signal coverage. Provide written documentation from
existing sites owners and/or operators which confirm the statements provided.
Indicate whether or not the existing sites allow/promote co-location and, if
not, describe why not.
         (g)   Indicate whether or not co-location will be allowed to other
telecommunications providers at the requested site. If they are not allowed,
state every reason and the basis for each reason.
         (h)   If the requested location is in a residential district the
applicant must address whether or not they have made an effort to locate the
facility in a commercial or industrial district. Please identify the location
of these commercial and or industrial district sites. Please describe in detail
these efforts and explain in detail why these commercial or industrial district
sites were not feasible. Attach all studies or tests performed which
demonstrate why the commercial or industrial sites will not provide sufficient
signal coverage. Provide written documentation from commercial or industrial
district sites' owners and/or operators which confirm the statements provided.
         (i)   Indicate the proposed provider's current coverage area for the
town. Attach maps showing the areas the proposed provider's existing antenna
currently cover, the areas the applicant's existing sites and other existing
sites would cover, and the areas the applicant's existing sites and the
requested site would cover.
         (j)   Describe the applicant's master antenna and tower plan for the
town. Attach maps and other related documentation. Provide information
indicating each phase of the plan.
         (k)   Describe the applicant's plan to minimize the number of
telecommunications antennas and towers needed to cover the town.
         (l)   The Town Council will approve a requested application subject to
the finding that co-location of this facility with a nearby existing tower
facility is technically not feasible and subject to the following conditions:
            1.   Applicant will permit co-location of others at the site;
            2.   Applicant will configure its antenna and other equipment to
accommodate other providers;
            3.   Applicant will identify its backhaul provider connecting
antenna sites; and
            4.   Applicant will give notice to the town identifying any
providers who co-locates to the site and identify their backhaul provider.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.030  NON-CONFORMING USES, LOTS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Categories of non-conformities.  Within the districts established by
this chapter, or amendments that may later be adopted, there exist:
      (1)   Lots and uses of land;
      (2)   Buildings and structures;
      (3)   Uses of land and buildings in combination; and
      (4)   Characteristics of use which were lawful before this chapter was
passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted
under the terms of this chapter or future amendments. It is the intent of this
chapter to permit these non-conformities to continue under regulations
contained herein until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival.
It is further the intent of this chapter that such non-conformities shall not
be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as ground for adding other
buildings and structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district.
   (B)   Non-conforming uses regulated.  Non-conforming uses are declared by
this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved.
No non-conforming use of land or buildings, nor any nonconforming structure
shall be enlarged, changed, altered, or repaired except in conformance with the
regulations contained in this section.
   (C)   Non-conforming status.  Any use, lot, or structure which does not
conform to the regulations of the zoning district in which it is located, is
non-conforming when:
      (1)   The use, lot, or structure was in existence and lawfully operating
on the date of the passage of this chapter, and has since been in regular and
continuous use; or
      (2)   The use, lot, or structure is lawful at the time of the adoption of
any amendment to this  chapter but because of the amendment, no longer complies
with applicable regulations; or
      (3)   The use, lot, or structure was in existence at the time of
annexation to the town and has since been in regular and continuous use.
   (D)   Non-conforming lots of record.  In any district in which residential,
commercial, or industrial buildings are permitted, buildings may be erected on
any single lot of record, or multiple lots of contiguous street frontage in the
same ownership, which were recorded prior to the effective date of this
chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lot or lots fail to meet
the minimum requirements for area, width, or both, as governed by the
applicable area regulations for that particular zoning district; however, all
other provisions of the applicable zoning district area regulations shall
apply. Any required variances shall be obtained only through the Zoning Board
of Adjustment.
   (E)   Non-conforming uses of land.  Where at the time of passage of this
chapter lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted by the
regulations imposed by this chapter, the use may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, provided:
      (1)   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   No such non-conforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to
any portion of the same lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at
the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   If any such nonconforming use of land is deemed to be abandoned for
any reason for a period of more than six months, any subsequent use of such
land shall conform to the regulations specified by this chapter for the
district in which such land is located.
   (F)   Non-conforming buildings.  Where a lawful building exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built
under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot, or other requirements
concerning the building, such building may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No such non-conforming building may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non-conformity, but any building or portion thereof may be
altered to decrease its non-conformity or to comply with town building codes.
      (2)   Should such non-conforming building or non-conforming portion of a
building be destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its
replacement cost at the time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, or when approved by
the Zoning Board of Adjustment, after public hearing thereon, when the Board's
findings, having due regard for the property rights of persons affected, were
considered in the light of public welfare and the character of the area
surrounding the non-conforming building and the conservation and protection of
property.
      (3)   Should such building be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
   (G)   Non-conforming uses of buildings.  If lawful use involving individual
buildings exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter, that would not be allowed in a particular district under the terms of
this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No existing building devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the building to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located, or to comply with town building codes.
      (2)   Any non-conforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
      (3)   If no structural alterations are made, except as required by the
town's building codes, any non-conforming use of a building, or building and
premises, may be changed to another non-conforming use provided that the Zoning
Board of Adjustment, either by general rule or by making findings in the
specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more
appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting
such change, the Zoning Board of Adjustment may require appropriate conditions
and safeguards in accord with the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   Any building in which a non-conforming use is superseded by a
permitted use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district,
and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
      (5)   When a non-conforming use of a building is discontinued or
abandoned for six consecutive months, the building shall not thereafter be used
except in conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
      (6)   Where non-conforming use status applied to a building and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the building shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.  DESTRUCTION for the purpose of this division
is defined as damage to an extent of more than 50% of the replacement cost at
time of destruction.
      (7)   Where non-conforming use status applies to a conforming building,
such use shall be immediately terminated upon transfer to another ownership or
lease.
   (H)   Repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   On any non-conforming building or portion of a building containing
a non-conforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months
on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures,
wiring or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 50% of the current replacement
cost of the non-conforming building or non-conforming portion of the building,
as the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing when it became
non-conforming shall not be increased.
      (2)   If a non-conforming building or portion of a building containing a
non-conforming use becomes physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of repairs
and maintenance, and is declared by any duly authorized town official to be
unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it shall not thereafter be
restored, repaired or rebuilt except in conformity with the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public
safety, upon order of such official.
   (I)   Non-conforming uses discontinued.  A non-conforming use of any
building or structure which has been discontinued shall not thereafter be
returned to any non-conforming use. A non-conforming use shall be considered
discontinued when:
      (1)   It has been replaced with a conforming use; or
      (2)   Such building or structure is or hereafter becomes vacant and
remains unoccupied or out of use for a continuous period of six months, or the
equipment and furnishings of the non-conforming use have been removed from the
premises and have not been replaced within such six month period; or
      (3)   The intention of the owner to permanently discontinue the use is
apparent.
   (J)   Changes that lessen non-conformity.  Changing to a more restricted or
less intensive non- conforming use that lessens the extent of the original non-
conformity may be permitted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
   (K)   Certificate of occupancy.  No non-conforming building or use shall be
maintained, renewed, changed or extended until a certificate of occupancy shall
have been issued by the administrative official. The certificate of occupancy
shall state specifically wherein the non-conforming use differs from the
provisions of this chapter, provided that upon enactment or amendment of this
chapter, owners or occupants of non-conforming uses or buildings shall have
three months to apply for certificates of occupancy. Failure to make such
application within three months shall be presumptive evidence that the property
was in conforming use at the time of enactment or amendment of this chapter.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.031  OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Applicability.  All outdoor electrically powered illuminating devices
shall be installed in conformance with the provisions of this section, the
Building Code and the Electrical Code of the Town of Lakeside as applicable and
under appropriate permit and inspection. These lighting standards shall apply
to all non-residential uses in the Town of Lakeside. Unless otherwise stated,
this chapter does not regulate lighting in public road rights-of way.
   (B)   Outdoor lighting plan.  An outdoor lighting plan must be submitted
separately from any required site plan or landscape plan on all public or
private properties, including rights-of-ways, public easements, franchises and
utility easements for approval by the building official. An outdoor lighting
plan shall be submitted prior to issuing a building permit. Plans shall include
the following:
      (1)   A layout of the proposed fixture locations;
      (2)   The light source;
      (3)   The luminous area for each proposed light source with proposed foot
candle measurements;
      (4)   The type and height of the light fixture or of the light source
above grade.
      (5)   The type of illumination.
   (C)   General lighting requirements.
      (1)   Unless otherwise provided herein, illumination, where required by
this chapter, shall have intensities and uniformity ratios in accordance with
the current recommended practices of the Illuminating Engineering Society of
North America (IESNA) as from time to time amended.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided herein, all building lighting for
security or aesthetics will be fully-shielded type, not allowing any upward
distribution of light. Wallpack type fixtures are acceptable only if they are
fully-shielded with 80° cut-off.
      (3)   No use or operation in any district shall be located or conducted
so as to produce glare, or either direct or indirect illumination across the
bounding property line from a source of illumination into a residentially zoned
property, nor shall any such light be of such intensity as to create a nuisance
or detract from the use and enjoyment of adjacent property. For the purposes of
this section, a NUISANCE shall be defined as more than one-tenth (0.25) of one
foot-candle of light measured at the residential property line and twenty-five
hundredths (2.25) of one foot-candle at any adjoining non-residential property
line.
      (4)   Shielding shall be required in all outdoor lighting installations
as specified below.
 
Lamp Type                  Shielding
Low pressure sodium (LPS)  Fully shielded, with 80º cut-off
High pressure sodium (HPS) Fully shielded, with 80º cut-off
Metal halide               Fully shielded, with 80º cut-off
Halogen                    Fully shielded, with 80º cut-off
Mercury vapor              Fully shielded, with 80º cut-off
Fluorescent                Fully shielded, with 80º cut-off
 
 
Lamp Type                                      Shielding
Incandescent                                   Fully shielded, with 80º cut-off
Any light source 50 watts and under            Unshielded
                                               Permitted
Low intensity neon, krypton or argon discharge Unshielded
tubes                                          Permitted
 
   (D)   Illumination.
      (1)   Measurement. Illumination levels of outdoor lighting shall be
measured by a qualified professional according to generally accepted IESNA
methods.
      (2)   Computation of illumination. Illumination at a point may be
computed in lieu of measurement. Computation methods shall consist of a
generally accepted IESNA method, using certified photometric data furnished by
the fixture manufacturer, lamp manufacturer, photometric laboratory, or other
reliable authority satisfactory to the town. Computations shall be based on
new, properly seasoned lamps, diffusers and other appurtenances in place, and
with proper regard taken for mounting height, relative elevation, natural and
manmade objects.
      (3)   Limitations on neighboring property. The limit of illumination on
neighboring property from one  establishment shall be by zoning of the
neighboring property. Maximum computed or measured foot-candles at the
neighboring property line shall not exceed:
   (E)   Non-residential lighting parameters. 
      (1)   All non-essential lighting shall be turned off after business
hours, leaving only necessary lighting for non-residential districts site
security.
      (2)   Floodlights, accent, aesthetic and security lights must be fully
shielded and no up-lighting shall be permitted except that lighting of 75 watts
or less are excepted if necessary for security purposes.
      (3)   Parking lots and vehicle movement areas shall not exceed a maximum
illumination value of ten foot-candles nor a minimum illumination value of 1.0
foot-candles. Lamps in decorative lantern type fixtures shall not exceed a
maximum of 100 watts. Total pole and fixture height shall not exceed a maximum
of 32 feet, measured from grade at the base. Taller poles may be considered in
some situations upon approval of a special exception by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment.
      (4)   Display, building and aesthetic lighting must be externally lit
from the top and shine downward. The lighting must be fully-shielded to prevent
direct glare and/or light trespass. The lighting must also be substantially
contained to the target area.
      (5)   Limitations on establishment property.  The maximum outdoor initial
computed or measured illuminance level on the establishment property shall not
exceed 20 foot-candles outdoors at any point, except that lighting under
canopies (such as service stations) shall not exceed 40 foot-candles.
   (F)   Public and semi-public recreational facilities. Any light source
permitted by this section may be used for lighting of outdoor recreational
facilities (public or private), such as, but not limited to, football fields,
soccer fields, baseball fields, softball fields, tennis courts, or show areas,
provided all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Any illumination level exceeding a maximum of twenty foot-candles
must receive prior approval by the Zoning Board of Adjustment by means of a
special exception.
      (2)   All fixtures used for event lighting shall be fully shielded, or be
designed or provided with sharp cut-off capability, so as to minimize up-light,
spill-light, and glare.
      (3)   All events shall be scheduled so as to complete all activity before
or as near to 10:30 p.m. as practical, but under no circumstances shall any
illumination of the playing field, court, or track be permitted after 11:00
p.m. except to conclude a scheduled event that was in progress before 11:00
p.m. and circumstances prevented concluding before 11:00 p.m.
   (G)   Prohibited lighting elements.  Unless otherwise authorized, the
following shall be prohibited except upon prior approval of a special exception
by the Zoning Board of Adjustments.
      (1)   Laser source light. The use of laser source light or any similar
high intensity light for outdoor advertising or entertainment, when projected
above the horizontal is prohibited.
      (2)   Searchlights.  The operation of searchlights for advertising
purposes is prohibited.
      (3)   Floodlights.  The use of floodlights is prohibited.
      (4)   Up-lighting of display, building and aesthetic lighting is
prohibited.
   (H)   Exceptions.
      (1)   All temporary emergency lighting needed by the Police or Fire
Departments or other emergency services, as well as all vehicular luminaries.
      (2)   All hazard warning luminaries required by federal regulatory
agencies are exempt from the requirements of this section, except that all
luminaries used must be red and must be shown to be as close as possible to the
federally required minimum lumen output requirement for the specific task.
      (3)   Any luminare of 75 watts or less provided the accumulated
illumination of 50 watt luminaries does not exceed 75 watts.
      (4)   Seasonal decorative lighting.
      (5)   Up-lighting of any Town of Lakeside, State of Texas or United
States of America flag.
   (I)   Temporary exemptions.
      (1)   Upon approval by the administrative official, temporary exemptions
from the requirements of this chapter for a period not to exceed 30 days may be
approved.
      (2)   Any person may submit a written request, on a form prepared by the
town for a temporary exemption request. The request shall contain the following
information:
         (a)   Specific exemption(s) requested;
         (b)   Type/use of outdoor lighting fixture involved;
         (c)   Duration of time requested;
         (d)   Type of lamp and calculated foot-candles;
         (e)   Total wattage of lamp(s);
         (f)   Proposed location of fixtures;
         (g)   Previous temporary exemption requests;
         (h)   Physical side of fixtures and type of shielding provided; and
         (i)   Such other data or information as may be required by the Town
Manager or his or her designee.
         (j)   Requests for renewal of exemptions shall be processed in the
same way as the original request. Each renewal shall be valid for not more than
14 days or a time period designated by the administrative official.
      (3)   Approval for temporary exemptions will be based on the effect of
location and use of outdoor lighting fixture.
   (J)   Non-conforming lighting.  All luminaries lawfully in place prior to
the date of the chapter shall be considered as having legal non-conforming
status. However, any luminare that replaces a legal non-conforming luminare, or
any legal non-conforming luminare that is moved, must meet the standards of
this chapter.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.032  CARGO CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Purpose.  It is recognized that uncontrolled storage and placement of
cargo containers may detract from the value adjacent property, discourage
commerce, and negatively impact the aesthetic quality of non-residential
property and adjacent residential property. The purpose of this section is to
provide for regulations that protect the value of property and enhance the
appearance, health, safety, and welfare of the town.
   (B)   General regulations for residential development.
      (1)   Cargo containers in residential districts may be permitted for a
period of 30 days. The 30-period may be extended for an additional 30 upon
approval of a special exception.
      (2)   Cargo containers located in any zoning district permitting multi-
family dwellings must be located in an area designated for storage use.
      (3)   Only one cargo container shall be permitted on any site in the R1,
R2, and MH Districts.
      (4)   Cargo containers located in the R1, R2, MF, and MH Districts shall
not exceed 16 feet in length, eight feet in width, and eight-and-one-half feet
in height.
      (5)   Cargo containers shall be permitted in the MF District by specific
use permit only and shall not exceed two cargo containers on any site at any
time. All other applicable regulations contained herein shall apply.
   (C)   General regulations for non-residential development.
      (1)   Cargo containers shall be permitted in the C zoning district by
specific use permit only.
      (2)   Cargo containers shall not be stacked.
      (3)   Cargo containers shall not occupy any required off-street parking
spaces, vehicular access, pedestrian facilities or landscape areas for the
site.
      (4)   Cargo containers shall not be located between a building and front
property line.
      (5)   Cargo containers shall be placed in a location that minimizes
visual impact from surrounding streets and properties. For any site containing
more than four cargo containers, a location plan shall be submitted and
approved by the Town Administrator or his or her designee prior to locating the
cargo containers on site. At such time all cargo containers shall be subject to
the location plan.
      (6)   Any cargo container located within 100 feet of a residential zoning
district shall be no greater in size than ten feet in width, 20 feet in depth,
and eight-and-a-half  feet in height and no cargo container may be stacked
within 100 feet of a residential district.
      (7)   Cargo container shall not be used for a primary use without
obtaining a special use permit. Such special use permit shall be accompanied
with a detailed site plan of the entire site and must be approved by the Town
Council upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (8)   Cargo containers shall be placed upon a dust-free, all weather
surface as approved by the Town Administrator or his or her designee.
      (9)   Cargo containers located in any non-residential zoning district
shall not exceed a size of ten feet in height, ten feet in width, and 30 feet
in length, unless approved by the Town Council upon recommendation of the
Planning and Zoning Commission.
      (10)   Areas utilized by cargo containers shall be included in the square
foot requirement as a storage use and shall be applicable to the required
parking calculations as set forth in §
151.028.
      (11)   The quantity of cargo containers located in the C zoning district,
shall be determined by the total aggregate square footage of principal
buildings according to the following rate:
Total Aggregate Square Footage of Principal Quantity of Cargo Containers
Building
Total Aggregate Square Footage of Quantity of Cargo Containers
Principal Building
0 to 35,000 sq. ft                one
35,001 sq. ft - 70,000 sq. ft     two
70,001 sq. ft. - 105,000 sq. ft.  three
105,001 sq. ft. - 140,000 sq. ft. four
140,001 sq. ft. - 175,000 sq. ft. five
175,501 sq. ft. - 210,000 sq. ft  six
over 210,100 sq. ft.              amount upon approval by the Town Council
 
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.033  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative official.  An administrative official designated by the
Town Council shall administer and enforce this chapter. Said person may be
provided with the assistance of such other persons or consultants as the Town
Council may direct.
   (B)   Enforcement.  If the administrative official finds that any of the
provisions of this chapter are being violated, he or she shall notify in
writing the person responsible for such violations, indicating the nature of
the violation and ordering the action necessary to correct it. He or she shall
order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal
of illegal buildings or structures or of illegal additions, alterations, or
structural changes; discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall
take any other action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or
to prevent violation of its provisions.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.034  COMPLETION OF BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require
a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building on which
actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this chapter and upon which actual building construction has
been carried on diligently. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include
the placing of construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a
permanent manner. Where excavation or demolition or removal of an existing
building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such
excavation or demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction,
provided that work shall be carried on diligently.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.035  ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Governing body shall act as the Zoning Board of Adjustment. The Zoning
Board of Adjustment shall consist of six members, to include all five members
of the City Council plus the Mayor. All cases to be heard by the Zoning Board
of Adjustment must be heard by a minimum number of five members.
   (B)   Terms of office. The members of the governing body shall serve as
members of the Zoning Board of Adjustment concurrent with their terms of office
as Council members or Mayor.
   (C)   Procedure. The Mayor shall serve as the presiding officer of the
Board, and the Mayor Pro Tempore shall serve as acting presiding officer in the
Mayor’s absence.
      (1)   The Board may hold an organizational meeting as it deems necessary.
      (2)   Meetings shall be held at the call of the presiding officer and at
such other times as the Board may determine.
      (3)   All meetings shall be open to the public.
      (4)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its
examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be public record
and be immediately filed in the office of the Board.
      (5)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules necessary to the
conduct of its affairs and in keeping with the provisions of this chapter and
state statutes.
      (6)   A quorum for the conduct of business shall consist of five members
of the Board.
      (7)   The members of the Board shall regularly attend meetings and public
hearings of the commission and shall serve without compensation.
      (8)   The presiding officer or acting presiding officer shall preside at
all meetings and may administer oaths and compel the attendance of the
witnesses and shall have the same subpoena powers as the municipal court.
   (D)   Powers of the Board. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall have the
powers and exercise the duties of a Board of Adjustment in accordance with Tex.
Local Gov’t Code, § 211.008. The Board’s jurisdiction shall extend to and
include the hearing and deciding of the following types of appeals and
applications, and to that end shall have the necessary authority to ensure
continuing compliance with its decision. The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall
have the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Interpretation. To render an interpretation of the zoning
regulations or the manner of which their application where it is alleged there
is error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
administrative official in the administration of this chapter. In reaching its
decisions, the Board shall establish firm guidelines for future administrative
action on like matters.
      (2)   Special exceptions. To hear and decide upon those applications for
special exceptions when the same is authorized under this chapter subject to
Board approval. A special exception shall not be granted by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment unless it finds:
         (a)   That the use is specifically permitted under this chapter;
         (b)   That the locations of proposed activities and improvements are
clearly defined on the site plan filed by the applicant; and
         (c)   That the exception will be wholly compatible with the use and
permitted development of adjacent properties.
      (3)   Variances. To authorize upon appeal in specific cases such variance
from the height, yard area, coverage, and parking regulations set forth in this
chapter as may be necessary to secure appropriate development of a parcel of
land which differs from other parcels in the district by being of such
restricted area, shape, or slope that it cannot be appropriately developed
without such modification. A variance from the terms of this chapter shall not
be granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment unless it finds that:
         (a)   Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district.
         (b)   That literal interpretation of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in
the same district under the terms of this chapter.
         (c)   That the special conditions and circumstances do not result from
the actions of the applicant.
         (d)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special priviledge that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures or buildings in the same district.
         (e)   The Board shall further make a finding that the reasons set
forth in the application justify the granting of the variance, and that the
variance is the minimum variance that will make possible the reasonable use of
the land, building or structure.
         (f)   The Zoning Board of Adjustment shall make a finding that the
granting of the variance will be in harmony with the general purpose and intent
of this chapter, and will not be injurious to the neighborhood, or otherwise
detrimental to the public welfare.
         (g)   Under no circumstances shall the Board grant a variance to allow
a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter in the district involved,
or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by the terms of this chapter
in said district.
      (4)   Non-conforming uses.
         (a)   The Board may permit the reconstruction, extension, or
enlargement of a building occupied by a non-conforming use on the lot or tract
occupied by the building, and the addition of off-street parking or off-street
loading to a non-conforming use.
         (b)   The Board may require the discontinuance of non-conforming uses
or land or buildings under any plan whereby the full value of the buildings and
facilities can be amortized within a definite period of time, taking into
consideration the general character of the neighborhood and the necessity of
all property to conform to the regulations of this chapter. All actions to
discontinue a non-conforming use of land or structure shall be taken with due
regard to the property rights of the persons affected, when in light of the
public welfare and the character of the area surrounding the designated non-
conforming use and the conservation and preservation of the property.
         (c)   The Board shall, from time to time, on its own motion or upon
cause presented by interested property owners, inquire into the existence,
continuation, or maintenance of any non-conforming use within the town.
   (E)   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Interpretation. Appeals to the Zoning Board of Adjustment
concerning interpretation or administration of this chapter may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer, agency, department or commission of the
town affected by any decision of the administrative official. Such appeals
shall be taken within ten business days or such lesser period as may be
provided by the rules of the Board, by filing with the administrative official
from whom the appeal is taken, and with the Zoning Board of Adjustment a notice
of appeal specifying the grounds for appeal. The administrative official shall
forthwith transmit to the Board all papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from was taken.
      (2)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from, unless the administrative official from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the Zoning Board of Adjustment after the notice of
appeal is filed with him that, by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a
stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life and property.
In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order
which may be granted by the Zoning Board of Adjustment or by a court of record
on application, and on due cause shown.
      (3)   Special exception application. An application for a special
exception to use or develop property as specifically authorized in district use
regulations or in this section may be filed by any person owning the affected
property or by any tenant upon written authorization of the owner. Such
application shall be filed with the Board, and a copy thereof with the
administrative official.
      (4)   Form of appeal or application. The appeal or application shall be
in such form and contain such information as the Board may require under its
rules of procedures. An incomplete appeal or application shall be deemed only
to give notice of intent to appeal or apply to the Board and shall not be
reviewed or scheduled for hearing until brought to completion.
      (5)   Notice of hearing. Official written notice of public hearing on
every application for a variance or special exception or for an interpretation
of regulations applying solely to an individual property shall be sent to all
owners of the property, or to the person rendering the same for town taxes,
affected by such application, located within 200 feet of any property affected
thereby, within not less than ten days before such hearing is held. Such notice
shall be served by using the last known address as listed on the town tax roll
and depositing the notice, postage paid, in the United States mail. Notice of
hearings on requests for interpretation of regulations applying to more than
one property and ownership shall be given by means of a general notice as
provided below. In addition, a list of items on the agenda to be heard by the
Board shall be posted at a public place in Town Hall at least 72 hours before
the hearing on said items, and a list of agenda items shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Town of Lakeside at least 24 hours
before the hearing at which action will be considered.
   (F)   Hearing and decision.
      (1)   Generally. The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
appeal, give public notice thereof as well as due notice to the parties in
interest, and decide the same within a reasonable time. At the hearing, any
party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. Evidence supporting the
grant or denial of an appeal shall be submitted only through the administrative
official or to the Board in a public meeting. An appeal or application may be
withdrawn upon written notice of the administrative official, but no appeal
shall be withdrawn after posting of a hearing notice and prior to Board action
thereon without formal consent of the Board.
      (2)   Decision and voting.
         (a)   Every decision of the Board shall be based upon findings of fact
and every finding of fact shall be supported in the record of proceedings. The
enumerated conditions required to exist on any matter upon which the Board is
authorized to pass under this chapter shall be construed as limitations on the
power of the Board to act.
         (b)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to empower the Board
to change the terms of this chapter, or to effect changes in the zoning
districts. The powers of the Board shall be so applied that the terms of this
chapter will be strictly enforced.
         (c)   In exercising the above-mentioned powers, the Zoning Board of
Adjustment may, so long as such action is in conformity with the provisions of
Tex. Local Gov’t Code, §§ 211.008 through 211.013, modify in whole or in part
any order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from  and may make
such order, requirements, decision or determination as ought to be made, and to
that end shall have the powers of the administrative official from whom the
appeal is taken.
         (d)   The concurring vote of five members of the Board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
administrative official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter
upon which it is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any
variation in the application of this chapter.
      (3)   Disqualification from voting.
         (a)   A member shall disqualify himself from voting whenever he or she
finds that he or she has a personal or monetary interest in the property under
appeal, or that he or she will be directly affected by the decision of the
Board.
         (b)   A member may disqualify himself or herself from voting whenever
any applicant, or his or her agent, has sought to influence the vote of the
member on the appeal, other than in the public hearing.
      (4)   Approval of request.
         (a)   In approving any request, the Board of Adjustment may designate
such conditions in connection therewith in order to secure substantially the
objectives of the regulations or provisions to which such variance is granted
and to provide adequately for the maintenance of the integrity and character of
the zone in which such permit is granted.
         (b)   When necessary, the Board of Adjustment may require guarantees,
in such form as it deems proper, to ensure conditions designated in connection
therewith are being or will be complied with.
         (c)   Unless a building permit or certificate of occupancy is
obtained, appeal shall expire 60 days after the Board’s decision unless a
greater time is requested in the application and is authorized by the Board.
Any approval may be granted one emergency extension of 60 days on written
request filed with the Board before expiration of the original approval.
      (5)   Denial of request. No appeal or application that has been denied
shall be further considered by the Board under a subsequent request obtained by
filing new plans and obtaining of a new decision from the administrative
official unless:
         (a)   The new plans materially change the nature of the request, or
         (b)   The permitted development of rather nearby property in the same
zone has been substantially altered or changed by a ruling of the Board, so as
to support an allegation of changed conditions.
      (6)   Appeals of Zoning Board of Adjustment action. Any person or
persons, or any board, taxpayer, department, commission agency of the town
aggrieved by any decision of the Zoning Board of Adjustment may seek review by
a court of record a petition duly certified, setting forth that such decision
is illegal in whole or in part, specifying the grounds of such illegality.
Shall petition be to the court within ten days after the filing of the decision
complained of in the office of the Board of Adjustment, and not thereafter.
      (G)   Authorized special exception. The following privately owned or
privately operated uses may be permitted as special exceptions by the Board of
Adjustment in the districts indicated below, subject to full and complete
compliance with any and all conditions listed, together with such other
conditions as the Board may impose for protection of the public health or
safety:
Special Exception District Where Permitted
Special Exception                                                                District Where
                                                                                 Permitted
Shared of the same off-street parking areas by two or more uses as follows:
a.   When two or more uses, according to such approved plan, share the same of 
street parking area, each may be considered as having provided such shared space C and
individually.                                                                    authorized
b.   The land uses and common parking facility must be located in close       nonresidential
proximity to one another.                                                        uses located
c.   The land uses must be located not farther from the shared parking than a in residential
distance of 300 feet, measured by a straight line from the nearest point of the  districts
land on which the use is served is located to the nearest point of the separated  
off-street parking space.
Off-site parking when the following applies:                                      
a.   Must be located not farther from the use served than a distance of 300   C and
feet, measured by a straight line from the nearest point of the land on which    authorized
the use is served is located to the nearest point of the separated off-street    nonresidential
parking space.                                                                   uses located
b.   A written agreement shall be drawn to the satisfaction of the Town Attornin residential
and executed by all parties concerned assuring the continued availability of the districts
off-site parking facilities for the use they are intended to service.             
                                                                                 C and
                                                                                 authorized
Additional height for parking lot light poles                                    nonresidential
                                                                                 uses located
                                                                                 in residential
                                                                                 districts
                                                                                 C and
                                                                                 authorized
Exceed Illumination of 20 foot-candle for public and semi-public facilities      nonresidential
                                                                                 uses located
                                                                                 in residential
                                                                                 districts
                                                                                 C and
                                                                                 authorized
Permit laser source lights, searchlights, floodlights, up-lighting of displays   nonresidential
and buildings, and mercury vapor lights                                          uses located
                                                                                 in residential
                                                                                 districts
                                                                                 C and
                                                                                 authorized
Reduction of required parking spaces between 11% and 50%                         nonresidential
                                                                                 uses located
                                                                                 in residential
                                                                                 districts
Antenna facilities which do not meet the requirements of §                       
151.030
                                                                                 C and
                                                                                 authorized
Additional height over 60 feet                                                   nonresidential
                                                                                 uses located
                                                                                 in residential
                                                                                 districts
Additional height of accessory building exceeding 12 feet                        R1, R2, and MH
                                                                                 Districts
 
   (H)   Fees.  There shall be a fee assessed for each request for a variance
to this chapter, in accordance with the Town of Lakeside fee schedule. Costs
shall not be allowed against the Board unless it shall appear to the court that
the Board acted with gross negligence or in bad faith, or with malice in making
the decision appealed.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 409, passed 5-9-2019)
§ 151.036  DUTIES OF TOWN COUNCIL.
   The duties of the Town Council in connection with this chapter shall not
include hearing and deciding questions of interpretation and enforcement that
may arise. Under this chapter the Town Council shall have only the duties of
considering and adopting or rejecting proposed amendments or the repeal of this
chapter, as provided by law, and, of establishing a schedule of fees and
charges as stated in §
151.037.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.037  FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Town Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and expenses
and a collection procedure for the administration, review and processing of
applications regarding the issuance of building permits, certificates of
occupancy, zoning change requests, plats, zoning board of adjustment appeals
and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees shall be
posted in the office of the zoning administrative official, and may be altered
or amended only by action of the Town Council. Until all applicable fees,
charges and expenses have been paid in full, no action shall be taken on any
application or appeal.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.038  AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.  The regulations, restrictions, and district boundaries
created by this chapter may be amended from time to time by the Town Council.
   (B)   Amendment initiation.  An amendment to this chapter may be initiated
by the Town Council on its own motion or an owner or agent having proprietary
interest in any property.
   (C)   Procedure.  Any amendment to this chapter shall require public
hearings to be held before the Town Council.
   (D)   Notice.
      (1)   When any amendment relates to a change in classification or
boundary of a zoning district, written notice of all public hearings before the
Town Council on proposed changes and classifications shall be sent to owners of
real property lying within 200 feet of the property on which the change in
classification is proposed. Such notice will be given not less than ten days
before the date set for hearing, to all owners as the ownership appears on the
last approved town tax roll. Such notice may be served by depositing the same,
properly addressed, postage paid, in the town post office. Notice shall also be
posted along with the agenda for all hearings and related meetings in
accordance with the applicable laws of the State of Texas.
      (2)   When an amendment relates to a change of zoning classification or
to the text of this chapter not affecting specific property, notice of the
public hearings before the Town Council shall be given by publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the town without necessity of notifying
property owners by mail. The notice shall state the time and place of the
hearing and the nature of the subject to be considered, which time shall not be
earlier than 15 days from the date of publication.
   (E)   Protest.  In case the Town Council does not approve the change, or in
case of a written protest against such change, filed with the Town Secretary
and signed by the owners of 20% or more, either of the area of the lots
included in such proposed change, or of those lying within 200 feet of the
property on which the change is requested, the amendment shall not be approved
except by the favorable vote of three-fourths of all members of the Town
Council.
   (F)   Frequency of petition.  A property owner, lessee, developer or option
holder may petition the Town Council for an amendment to the text or district
map of this chapter, provided that before any action shall be taken as provided
in the section, the party or parties petitioning for amendment shall deposit
with the Town Secretary the fee amount stipulated by resolution of the Town
Council to cover the approximate cost of this procedure, and under no condition
shall said sum or any part thereof be refunded for failure of such proposed
amendment to be enacted into law. A party shall not initiate the same action
for a zoning amendment or specific use permit affecting the same land more
often than once every 12 months.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.039  VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Complaints regarding violations.  Whenever a violation of this chapter
occurs, or is alleged to have occurred, any person may file a written
complaint. Such complaint stating fully the causes and basis thereof shall be
filed with the administrative official. He or she shall record properly such
complaint, immediately investigate, and take action thereon as provided by this
chapter.
   (B)   Penalties for violation.  Any person, firm, association of persons,
corporation, or other organization who shall violate any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined
an amount not to exceed $2,000.  Each day a violation of this chapter shall
continue shall constitute a separate offense. Nothing herein contained shall
prevent the town from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.040  PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of the Planning and Zoning Commission is to act
as an advisory board on all matters relating to zoning, city planning, and
development applications.
   (B)   Functions. To prepare and keep updated the town's master plan to
ensure orderly growth, and preserve the unique character of the community. A
quorum is required to conduct business. A super majority vote by the Council is
required to overturn a majority recommendation by the Planning and Zoning
Commission on zoning-related matters.
   (C)   Duties.
      (1)   Initiate and conduct planning sessions to proactively address
needed changes within the community relating to the master plan including, but
not limited to, thoroughfare plan, property zoning/rezoning, and future
development.
      (2)   Recommend boundaries for initial zoning districts and appropriate
zoning regulations.
      (3)   Take a proactive role in drafting, reviewing and making
recommendations to the Town Council relating to new zoning ordinances,
amendments to existing zoning ordinances, and thoroughfare planning.
      (4)   Make preliminary reports and hold public hearings prior to
submitting proposals to the Town Council as they relate to zoning and
environmental quality issues.
      (5)   Receive, review and take appropriate action on all platting and
subdivision proposals.
   (D)   Accountability.  The Planning and Zoning Commission is accountable to
the Mayor and Town Council. The Mayor and Town Council will determine if the
committee is functioning properly and accomplishing the defined duties and
responsibilities.
   (E)   Qualifications; composition; tenure.  Members of the Commission must
be qualified voters of the city and shall remain eligible to vote during their
tenure on the Commission. Five regular members plus two alternates nominated by
the Mayor and appointed by the Town Council. The chairman and vice-chairman are
appointed by the Town Council and shall serve one-year terms. They may serve
two-year terms with no term limits. Members serve at the pleasure of the Town
Council.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
DEFINITIONS
§ 151.041  RULES FOR WORDS AND PHRASES.
   (A)   General interpretation.  For the purpose of this chapter, certain
terms and words are defined and shall have the meanings ascribed in this
chapter unless it is apparent from the context that different meanings are
intended.
   (B)   Tense and number.  Words used in the present tense include the future
tense; words in the singular number include the plural number; and words in the
plural number include the singular number.
   (C)   Interpretation of certain words.  The word PERSON includes a firm,
association, organization, partnership, trust, foundation, company, or
corporation as well as an individual; the word SHALL is mandatory, not
directory; the word MAY is permissive; the word USED means designed, intended,
or arranged to be used; OCCUPIED means occupied or intended, designed, or
arranged to be occupied. The word LOT includes the words PLOT, PARCEL or TRACT
OF LAND; the word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE; the word INCLUDING
means including but not limited to.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010)
§ 151.042  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General definitions.  The following definitions do not include the
definition of uses.  Uses are defined in division (B) of this section.  For
purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABUTTING PROPERTY.  Property abutting upon a street shall also be
understood as not abutting property on the other side of the street.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A subordinate building located on the same lot as
the main building, or a portion of the main building, the use is clearly
incidental to and customarily found in connection with the main building or
principal use of the land.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate to and incidental to the primary use of
the main building or the primary use of the premises.
      ADJACENT.  Shall mean “next to” or “closest to” but shall not necessarily
mean “touching.”
      ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL. The individual charged with the administration
and enforcement of this chapter, or his or her duly authorized representative.
      ALLEY. A public minor way which is used primarily for secondary vehicular
service access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street
or highway.
      AMENDMENTS.  Changes made in text or map of the zoning ordinance.
      AWNING.  An awning is a roof-like cover that projects from the wall of a
building.
      BACKGROUND NOISE.  Noise from sources other than that under specific
consideration including traffic operating on public thoroughfares.
      BASEMENT. A building story which is partly underground, but having at
least one-half of its height above the average level of the adjoining ground. A
basement shall be counted as a story in computing building height.
      BASEMENT, CELLAR.  A cellar is a story wholly or partly (at least 50%
measured from ceiling) below the average level of the ground surrounding the
building. A cellar is not counted when measuring height of a building.
      BLOCK.  An area enclosed by streets and occupied by or intended for
buildings; or if used as a term of measurement, it shall mean the distance
along a side of a street between the nearest two streets which intersect said
street on the said side.
      BOARD.  The Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      BREEZEWAY. A covered passage one story in height and six feet or more in
width connecting a main structure and an accessory building. A breezeway shall
be considered an accessory building.
      BUILD.  To erect, convert, enlarge, reconstruct, or alter a building or
structure.
      BUILDABLE WIDTH. The buildable width of a building is the width of the
building site left to be built upon after the required side yards are provided.
      BUILDING.  Any structure built for the support, shelter and enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind. When subdivided in
a manner sufficient to prevent the spread of fire each portion so subdivided
may be deemed a separate building.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.  A building in which the principal use of the lot on
which it is located, is conducted. All residential uses, except bona fide
servants quarters, are principal uses.
      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel or approximately parallel to the street
line at a specific distance there from marking the minimum distance from the
street line that a building may be erected.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The Building Inspector or administrative official
charged with the responsibility for issuing permits and enforcing the Building
Code.
      CARPORT. A roofed structure open on up to three sides when attached to a
dwelling and open on up to four sides when detached from a dwelling, covered
with a roof supported by structural steel or wood columns or masonry piers of
minimum size for structural safety.
      CELLAR. A building story with more than one-half its height below the
average level of the adjoining ground. A cellar shall not be counted as a story
in computing building height.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. An official certificate issued by the town
through the administrative official which indicates conformance with or
approved conditional waiver from the building or zoning regulations and
authorizes legal use and occupancy of the premises for which it is issued.
      COUNCIL.  See TOWN COUNCIL.
      COMMISSION.  The Planning and Zoning Commission of the Town of Lakeside.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Policies in graphic and textual form which guide the
future development of the town.
      COURT.  An open, unoccupied space bounded on three or more sides by the
walls of a building. An inner court is a court entirely surrounded by the
exterior walls of a building. An outer court is a court having one side open to
a street, alley, yard or other permanent space.
      DENSITY. The number of dwelling units permitted per net acre of land. A
net acre of land does not include portions of streets or alleys.
      DISTRICT. A section of the Town of Lakeside for which the regulations
governing the area, height, or use of the land and buildings are uniform.
      DWELLING UNIT.  A building or portion of a building which is arranged,
occupied or intended to be occupied as living quarters for one family and
including facilities for food preparation and sleeping.
      EASEMENT.  A grant of one or more property rights by the owner to, or for
the use by, the public, a corporation, or another person or entity.
      FAMILY.
         (a)   Any number of persons living together as a single non-profit
housekeeping unit in which not more than four individuals are unrelated by
blood, marriage, or adoption.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the definition in the preceding division, a
FAMILY shall be deemed to include five or more persons not within the second
degree of kinship occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single, nonprofit
housekeeping unit, if said occupants are handicapped persons as defined in
Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, as amended by the Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988. Such unrelated individuals shall have the right to
occupy a dwelling in the same manner and to the same extent as any family unit
as defined in the division (a) of this definition.
      FENCE.  An open or solid enclosure designed to contain or prevent
intrusion. An open fence is one in which the vertical surface thereof is not
less than 70% open. A solid fence is one in which the vertical surface thereof
is not greater than 30% open, and may be considered as a screening element. See
also SCREENING ELEMENT/DEVICE.
      FLOODPLAIN.  Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from
any source, as defined by FEMA.
      FLOODWAY. The channel, river, or other watercourse and the adjacent land
area, as defined by FEMA, that must be reserved in order to discharge the 100-
year flood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more
than one foot at any point.
      FLOOR AREA.  The total square feet of floor space within the outside
dimensions of a building including each floor level, but excluding cellars,
attics, carports, or garages.
      FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR).  An indicated ratio between the number of square
feet of total floor area in the main building(s) on a lot and the total square
footage of land in the lot; it is the number resulting from dividing the main
building floor area by the lot area.
      GLARE. A sensation of brightness within the visual field that causes
annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual performance and visibility.
      GRADE.  The average of the finished ground level at the center of all
walls of a building. In cases where walls are parallel to and within five feet
of a sidewalk, the ground level shall be measured at the sidewalk.
      HEIGHT.
         (a)   The vertical distance of a building measured from the average
established grade at the street line or from the average natural front yard
ground level, whichever is higher, to:
            1.   The highest point of the roofs surface if a flat surface;
            2.   To the deck line of mansard roofs; or
            3.   To the mean height level between eaves and ridge for hip and
gable roofs and, in any event, excluding chimneys, cooling towers, elevator
bulkheads, penthouses, tanks, water towers, radio towers, ornamental cupolas,
domes or spires, and parapet walls not exceeding ten feet in height.
         (b)   If the street grade has not been officially established, the
average front yard grade shall be used for a base level.
      IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE.  Any material that substantially reduces or prevents
the infiltration of storm water into previously undeveloped land.
      INFRASTRUCTURE. The essential facilities such as water, sewers, streets,
highways, public utilities, libraries, parks, police and fire services, and
other facilities related to the protection of the health, safety, and general
welfare.
      LANDSCAPING. Live plant material including grass, shrubs, trees, and
flowering planted for the aesthetic benefit of the site.
      LIVING AREA.  The portion of a building or structure devoted to the
occupants use and benefit and shall not include garages, carports, or outside
areas.
      LIVING UNIT.  A room or rooms occupied by a family and which must include
cooking facilities.
      LOADING SPACE, OFF-STREET.  Space logically and conveniently located for
bulk pickups and deliveries, scaled to delivery vehicles expected to be used,
and accessible to such vehicles when required off-street parking spaces are
filled. Required off-street loading space is not to be included as off-street
parking space in computation of required off-street parking space.
      LOT. A parcel of land which is shown on an approved plat recorded in the
Tarrant County plat records.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two more streets at their intersection.
      LOT, FLAG.  A lot with access provided to the bulk of the lot by means of
a narrow corridor.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot that is other than a corner lot.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on more than
one street. Through lots abutting two streets may be referred to as double
frontage lots. Such lot(s) shall provide a front yard on each street.
      LOT AREA.  The area of the horizontal plane bounded by the vertical
planes through front, side, and rear lot lines.
      LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the total area of a lot occupied by the
base (first story or floor) of buildings located on the lot.
      LOT DEPTH. The horizontal mean distance between the midpoint of the front
and the midpoint of the rear lot lines.
      LOT LINES.  The property lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
      LOT LINES, FRONT.  The boundary between a lot and the street on which it
fronts.
      LOT LINES, REAR.  The boundary line not intersecting a front lot line
which is most distant and most closely parallel to the front lot line.
      LOT LINES, SIDE.  Any lot boundary line not a front or rear line thereof.
      LOT WIDTH. The width of a lot at the front building line.
      MAIN (PRINCIPAL) BUILDING. The building or buildings on a lot which are
occupied by the primary use.
      MASONRY. That form of construction composed of brick, stone, concrete,
hollow-clay tile, glass block, fiber cement board, stucco or similar building
units or materials or combination of these materials laid up unit by unit and
set in mortar.  Cementous fiber material (such as Hardi-board/Hardi-plank)
shall qualify as masonry material. (MASONRY does not include exterior insulated
finish systems [EIFS]).
      NON-CONFORMING BUILDING.  A building which legally existed prior to the
adoption, revision, or amendment of this chapter but that does not meet the
limitations on building size or location on a lot for the district in which the
building is located, or for the use being made of the building.
      NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot which was in compliance with applicable
regulations prior to the adoption, revision, or amendment of this chapter, but
which fails by reason of adoption, revision, or amendment to conform to the lot
requirements for the district in which it is located.
      NON-CONFORMING USE.  A use of land which legally existed at the time of
the effective date of this chapter, or subsequent amendments thereto, which
does not conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is
situated.
      OCCUPANCY.  The use or intended use of the land or buildings by
proprietors or tenants.
      OPEN SPACE.  Area included in any side, rear or front yard or any
unoccupied space on the lot that is open and unobstructed to the sky except for
the ordinary projections of cornices, eaves or porches.
      PARKING SPACE, OFF-STREET.  For the purposes of this chapter, an off-
street parking space shall consist of a space adequate for parking an
automobile with room for opening doors on both sides, together with properly
related access to a public street or alley and maneuvering room. Required off-
street parking areas for three or more automobiles shall have individual spaces
marked, and shall be so designed, maintained and regulated that no parking or
maneuvering incidental to parking shall be within any public street, or alley,
right-of-way, and so that any automobile may be parked and unparked without
moving another. For purposes of rough computation, an off-street parking space
and necessary access and maneuvering room shall be estimated at 300 square feet
for residential uses and 400 square
feet for nonresidential uses, but off-street parking requirements will be
considered to be met only when actual spaces meeting the requirements in this
chapter are provided, maintained and improved in a manner appropriate to the
circumstances of the case, and in accordance with all ordinances and
regulations of the town.  All required off-street parking spaces shall be
provided and maintained wholly within private property lines and not within any
public highway, street or alley right-of-way.
      PLAT. A plan of a subdivision of land creating building lots or tracts
and showing all essential dimensions and other information essential to comply
with the subdivision standards of the town and subject to approval by the Town
Council. Reference to a final plat in this chapter means an official plat of
record which has been approved by the Town Council and filed in the plat
records of Tarrant County.
      PREMISES.  Land together with any buildings or structures occupying all
or any portion of the land.
      PRIVATE DRIVE, STREET, OR PLACE.  An open, unoccupied space, other than a
street or alley, permanently established or reserved or dedicated in private
ownership as the principal means of vehicular access to property abutting
thereon.
      PROPERTY LINE.  See LOT LINE.
      RESIDENCE.  Same as a dwelling; also when used with the word district, an
area of residential regulations.
      ROOM. A building or portion of a building which is arranged, occupied or
intended to be occupied as living or sleeping quarters but not including toilet
or cooking facilities.
      SCREENING ELEMENT/DEVICE. Screening element (device) or suitably screened
as herein referred, shall mean any of the following:
         (a)   Any solid material constructed of brick, masonry, or of a
concrete or metal frame, or wood, or base which supports a permanent type
material, the vertical surface of which is not more than 30% open; or
         (b)   Any dense evergreen hedge or plant material suitable for
providing a visual barrier, for which such material shall be maintained in a
healthy growing condition;
         (c)   Landscaped earth berms may, when appropriate in scale, be
considered and used as a screening element in lieu of a fence, wall, hedge or
other dense planting material.
      SEMITRAILER.  A vehicle designee or used with a motor vehicle so that
part of the weight of the vehicle and its load rests on or is carried by
another vehicle.
      SETBACK, BUILDING. The minimum horizontal distance between the front wall
of any projection of the building (excluding steps) and the street line. (Same
as BUILDING LINE.)
      SMOKE/TOBACCO SHOP.  An establishment which sells tobacco products such
as cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, snuff, pipe tobacco, and tobacco
paraphernalia and which prohibits minors to enter or remain upon the premises,
unless the minor is accompanied by the minor’s parent.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. A use that would not be generally appropriate without
restriction throughout the zoning district but which, if controlled as to
number, area, location, intensity or relation to the neighborhood, would or
could be compatible therein and promote the public health, safety, welfare,
morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, prosperity or general welfare.
Such uses may be permitted as special exceptions by the Zoning Board of
Adjustment, after public hearing thereon. See  §
151.035 for provisions on the Zoning Board of Adjustment.
      SPECIFIC USE.  The use of any building, structure, or land not
specifically allowed by district regulations, but permitted as a specific use
in accordance with §
151.022.
      STORY. That part of a building included between the surface of one floor
and the surface of the floor next above, or if there be no floor above, that
part of the building which is above the surface of the highest floor thereof. A
top story attic is a half story when the main line of the eaves is not above
the middle of the interior height of such story. The first story is above the
middle of the interior height of such story. The first story is the highest
story having its interior floor surface not more than four feet above the curb
level, established or mean street grade or average ground level.
      STREET. A public way between two right-of-way lines (other than an alley
or private drive) which has been dedicated or deeded to the public for public
use and affords a principal means of access (vehicular or otherwise) to
property abutting thereon, as well as for utilities and sidewalks.
      STREET LINE.  The right-of-way line of a street.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS.  Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial
changes in the roofs or exterior walls, excepting such repair or replacement as
may be required for the safety of the building, but not including openings in
bearing walls as permitted by the town Building Code.
      STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the
ground, or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground. Among
other things, structures include buildings and mobile homes.
      THOROUGHFARE.  Those public streets designated on the Town of Lakeside
Thoroughfare Plan as thoroughfares.
      TOWN COUNCIL (COUNCIL).  The governing body of the Town of Lakeside,
Texas.
      TRAILER.  A vehicle that is designed or used to carry a load wholly on
its own structure; and is drawn or designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle.
      VARIANCE. A variance is a relaxation by the Board of Adjustment of the
dimensional regulations of the zoning ordinance where such variance will not be
contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions peculiar to the
property and not the result of the actions or the situation of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of the zoning ordinance would result in unnecessary and
undue hardship. See §
151.035(D)(3).
      VEHICLE.  As used herein shall include motor vehicle, motorcycle, trailer
and semitrailer.
      YARD, FRONT.  A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the
building line to the front line of the lot abutting a street. Depth of required
front yards shall be measured at right angles to a straight line joining the
foremost points of the side lot lines. The foremost point of the side lot line,
in the case of rounded property corners at street intersections, shall be
assumed to be the point at which the side and front lot lines would have met
without such rounding.
      YARD, REAR.  A yard between the rear lot line and the rear line of the
main building and the side lot lines. Depth of a required rear yard shall be
measured in such a manner that the yard established is a strip of the minimum
width required by district regulations with its inner edge parallel with the
rear lot line.
      YARD, SIDE.  A yard between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front yard to the required minimum rear yard. Width of a
required side yard shall be measured in such a manner that the yard established
is a strip of the minimum width required by district regulations with its inner
edge parallel with the side lot line.
      ZONING DISTRICT MAP.  The official certified map upon which the
boundaries of the various zoning districts are drawn and which is an integral
part of the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Land use definitions and explanations.  The following definitions and
explanatory notes supplement, restrict and define the meaning and intent of the
uses listed in §
151.012.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING SALES WITH DISPLAY. An area devoted to the display and
outdoor sales to the public of accessory buildings such as storage sheds with
no onsite construction.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental to the main use of the
property.
      AGRICULTURAL USE.  The use of a parcel of land for farming or ranching
and shall include the structures that are normally associated with agricultural
uses. However, this use shall not include commercial dairies, commercial dog
kennels, commercial hatcheries, and commercial mink, fox, rat, or other fur
bearing animal farms, or the farming of swine or exotic animals.
      AMBULANCE SERVICE.  An establishment which provides ambulatory transport
of persons, to or from a medical facility, for a fee.
      AMUSEMENT CENTER, INDOOR. A facility providing game equipment for
entertainment and amusement as its primary source of income. Games contained in
the facility may include coin operated machines utilizing balls, pins, and
baskets, video equipment, and pinball. Other equipment may include skill games
such as pool, billiards, bowling, shuffle board, darts, and batting cages. Any
combination of these games may be used in the facility. Games of wagering and
chance, including 8-liners, categorized as gambling are prohibited and not
included in this use.
      AMUSEMENT CENTER, OUTDOOR.  An amusement enterprise offering
entertainment or games of skill to the general public for a fee or charge
wherein any portion of the activity takes place in the open, including but not
limited to golf driving ranges, archery range, and miniature golf courses.
      ANIMAL GROOMING.  An establishment that offers to the general public the
service of animal grooming for domestic pets. No boarding or medical care is
provided.
      ANIMAL POUND, SHELTER.  A facility used to house or contain stray,
homeless, abandoned, or unwanted animals and that is owned, operated, or
maintained by a public body, or other nonprofit organization devoted to the
welfare, protection, and humane treatment of animals.
      ANTIQUE SHOP.  An establishment offering for sale articles such as glass,
china, furniture, or similar furnishings and decorations which have value and
significance as a result of age, design, or sentiment.
      APARTMENT. One or more rooms with private bath and kitchen facilities,
comprising an independent, self-contained dwelling unit dedicated to single-
family use in a building containing three or more such dwelling units.
      APPAREL ALTERATION AND REPAIR or TAILOR SHOP.  An establishment offering
individual alteration, repair, or creation of clothing apparel to the public.
      APPLIANCE REPAIR, HOUSEHOLD.  A shop specializing in repair of household
appliances.
      ART GALLERY. An establishment offering works of art for viewing and sale
to the general public.
      ARTS, CRAFTS, AND HOBBY SHOP. An establishment offering for sale those
items commonly associated with hobbies, including display areas for hobbies.
      ASSEMBLY HALL.  A building and associated facilities dedicated to social
or recreational activities serving the town or a neighborhood.
      ASSEMBLY PLANT. A facility for the assembly of equipment including
automobiles, trucks, farm machinery, railroad cars, engines, and appliances
from components fabricated for the most part in other locations.
      ATHLETIC FIELD AND PLAY FIELD, COMMERCIAL. An athletic field or stadium
owned and operated privately, including a baseball field, golf course, football
field, or stadium which may be lighted for nighttime play.
      ATHLETIC FIELD AND PLAY FIELD, PUBLIC.  An athletic field or stadium
owned and operated by a public agency for the general public, including a
baseball field, golf course, football field, or stadium which may be lighted
for night-time play.
      AUCTION HOUSE. A place where objects of art, furniture, or other goods
are offered for sale to persons who bid on the object in competition with each
other, where all objects are stored and/or displayed indoors.
      AUDITORIUM. A large building and associated facilities for gathering an
audience for speeches and performances.
      AUTO AUCTION.  An enclosure or area, including outside storage, designed
for the sale of automobiles at auction or using other sales techniques.
      AUTO CAR WASH. An area and/or structure with machine or hand operated
facilities used principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of
motor vehicles.
      AUTO IMPOUND LOT/WRECKER BUSINESS. An establishment offering the service
of towing, impounding, and temporary storage of vehicles either which have been
in an accident or are illegally parked.
      AUTO PAINT AND BODY SHOP.  An automotive shop with a primary purpose of
repairing and painting the outside surfaces of automobiles, trucks, and vans,
and repairing and replacing the upholstery of such vehicles.
      AUTO PARTS AND ACCESSORY SALES. An automotive shop with a primary purpose
of selling new parts and accessories for automobiles, trucks, and vans.
      AUTO RENTAL (CAR AND TRUCK).  An establishment primarily engaged in the
short-term rental or extended term leasing of automobiles and trucks, not
including truck tractors or semi-trailers.
      AUTO REPAIR GARAGE.  An enclosed facility designed for the repair and
maintenance of automobiles, trucks, and vans with outside storage allowed but
no outside repair or maintenance conducted.
      AUTO SALES, NEW AND USED. An open area or lot used for the display or
sale of automobiles, trucks, and vans, where no repair work is done except
minor reconditioning of the cars to be displayed and sold on the premises, and
no dismantling of cars for sale or keeping of used car parts or junk on the
premises.
      AUTO SERVICE STATION. An establishment for the retail sales of petroleum
products, automobile accessories, auto tune-up, muffler installation incidental
to the primary use, tire installation or repair, oil change or other lubricate
services in which all services provided and all storage, supplies, parts,
equipment, and accessories are indoors, with the exception of fuel-dispensing
operations.
      AUTO SERVICE STATION, LIGHT MAINTENANCE.  A premises where gasoline and
other petroleum products are sold and/or light maintenance activities such as
engine tune-ups, lubrication, minor repairs, and carburetor cleaning are
conducted. Service stations shall include automobile inspection services, but
shall not include areas where heavy automobile maintenance activities such as
engine overhauls, automobile painting, and body fender work are conducted.
      AUTOMOTIVE OIL CHANGE AND LUBRICATION SHOPS. An establishment primarily
engaged in changing motor oil and lubricating the chassis of automotive
vehicles and performance of automotive maintenance and minor repairs of
automotive vehicles such as passenger cars, trucks and vans.
      BAKERY, RETAIL CONFECTIONERY. A shop offering for sale on premises those
baked goods or candies made on premises or off premises. No production for off
premise sale is allowed.
      BAKERY, WHOLESALE CANDY.  A manufacturing facility for either baked goods
or candy with the purpose of selling the products at off-site retail locations.
      BANK, SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION, FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.  A building or
premise offering banking, savings and loan, and other financial services, not
including pawn shops as herein defined.
      BARBER SHOP, BEAUTY SALON, OTHER PERSONAL SHOP.  An establishment which
provides personal services including hair cuts, perms, color treatments,
manicures, pedicures, and other personal beauty services.
      BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY.  A dwelling unit located in a nonresidential
zoning district which is used for transient lodging with no more than seven
bedrooms, located in the principal building and rented for compensation. The
length of stay is limited to not more than 30 consecutive days. Meal service
may be offered on or off site and is for overnight paying guests only at no
additional compensation. Cooking and cooking facilities are prohibited in
guestrooms, but are permitted in an area dedicated to kitchen uses.
      BICYCLE SALES AND REPAIRS. A retail establishment offering for sale to
the public bicycles and associated products and also performing maintenance and
repairs.
      BOARDING HOUSE.  A building other than a hotel, where lodging and meals
for five or more persons, not members of the principal family therein, are
served for compensation.
      BOAT AND MARINE SALES AND SERVICE. An establishment offering for sale to
the public boats and other marine equipment and also providing repair and
maintenance service.
      BOTTLING WORKS. A facility for the bottling of products for off-site
retail sales.
      BUILDING MATERIALS, MANUFACTURING. A facility for the production of
building materials which include fiberglass, wallboard, shingles, etc.
      BUILDING MATERIALS, SALES. A distribution and sales center for retail and
wholesale hardware, plumbing, lumber, and other materials used in the building
trade.
      BUS, TRAIN, AND TAXI STATION OR TERMINAL.  A facility that provides for
regularly scheduled transit services, passenger lounges, ticketing, and
customer parking.
      CABINET AND UPHOLSTERY SHOP.  A shop for the assembly of cabinetry for
domestic use and furniture repairing, refinishing, and upholstery.
      CAMP GROUND AND RELATED FACILITIES. An area that is occupied or intended
or designed for occupancy by transients using recreational vehicles, tents, or
other temporary dwellings for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes. The use
may also include cooking facilities, bath houses, and recreation areas. This
does not include a manufactured housing community.
      CARETAKER’S RESIDENCE, GUARD’S RESIDENCE, SERVANT’S QUARTERS, AND GARAGE
APARTMENT.  A residence located on a premises with a main non-residential or
residential use occupied only by an employee of the principal use, and serviced
through the same utility meters or connections as the principal use to which it
is accessory, and not receiving rent or payment for use as a resident.
Manufactured homes are not permitted for this use.
      CARPORT.  A structure built and used for the shelter and protection of
motor vehicles against the elements and consisting of a roof and supports, open
on three sides from roof to adjacent ground level.
      CATERING SERVICE.  A facility where food is prepared in large quantities
to be transported to, served, and consumed at an off-site location.
      CEMETERY, MAUSOLEUM, CREMATORIUM.  An area or structure designed to
contain the remains of humans or animals for permanent interment.
      CLINIC. A public or private, profit or non-profit facility for the
reception and treatment of outpatient persons physically or mentally ill,
injured, handicapped, or otherwise in need of physical or mental diagnosis,
treatment, care, or similar service.
      COIN AND STAMP SHOP. A retail establishment offering coins and stamps for
sale and trade and associated products for sale.
      COLLECTIBLES SHOP.  A retail establishment offering such collectible
items as sports trading cards, comic books, and stuffed animals for sale to the
general public.
      COMMERCIAL ASSEMBLY FACILITY.  An assembly or community facility utilized
for gathering and/meeting purposes which may be ancillary to a principle
commercial use or serve as a principal commercial use. Does not include meeting
or community spaces utilized by hotels, motels, convention centers, churches,
or other public or quasi-public uses.
      COMMUNITY CENTER.  A building dedicated to social or recreational
activities, serving the town or a neighborhood and owned and operated by the
town, or by a non-profit organization dedicated to promoting the health,
safety, morals, or general welfare of the town.
      CONTRACTOR, NO OUTSIDE STORAGE PERMITTED. A business such as an
electrician, mechanic, or plumber whose primary use provides a service by
installing electrical, mechanical, or plumbing systems, which also may have
limited sales of electrical, mechanical, or plumbing supplies or equipment as a
secondary use incidental to its primary use. No outside storage permitted.
      CONTRACTOR, OUTSIDE STORAGE PERMITTED. A business such as an electrician,
mechanic, or plumber whose primary use provides a service by installing
electrical, mechanical, or plumbing systems, which also may have limited sales
of electrical, mechanical, or plumbing supplies or equipment as a secondary use
incidental to its primary use. Outside storage permitted.
      CONTRACTORS STORAGE OR EQUIPMENT YARD.  An area located on the same lot
or separate lot as a principal use, used for outside storage of construction
equipment, including vehicles and construction material.
      CONVENIENCE STORE, WITH OR WITHOUT FUEL SALES. A premise where gasoline
and/or other petroleum products are sold as a principal use, and in connection
with the principal use, a convenience store offering for sale prepackaged food
products, household items, and other goods commonly associated with the same.
      CONVENT, RECTORY, MONASTERY.  The building, buildings, or premises
occupied by a religious community or association as a residence and a place of
work and worship.
      COPY SHOP. A small commercial printing shop which sells on-site most of
the items printed along with associated items.
      COSMETIC TATTOO ESTABLISHMENT.  An establishment where trained personnel
apply microinjections of pigment to the dermal layer of skin such that facial
cosmetics are applies on a permanent basis. This does not include a tattoo
parlor.
      COUNTRY CLUB. An area containing a clubhouse and available only to
private specific membership. Such a club may contain adjunct facilities such as
a private club (only in conformance with these regulations and applicable state
statutes), dining room, swimming pool, tennis courts, and similar recreational
or service activities.
      DAIRY PROCESSING.  A commercial plant for the storage and processing of
milk and milk products.
      DAY CARE CENTER, ADULT.  An agency at which six or more disabled or
elderly adults not related to the proprietor, are left for care for a part of
the 24 hours of the day.
      DAY CARE CENTER, CHILD.  An agency at which six or more children, under
the age of 16 and not related to the proprietor, are left for care for a part
of the 24 hours of the day.
      DAY CARE, IN THE HOME.  A private residence where care, protection, and
supervision are provided on a regular schedule, at least twice a week to no
more than six children, including children of the adult provider.
      DEPARTMENT STORE.  A store offering a variety of comparison and
consumptive goods at retail price to the general public.
      DWELLING, ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A facility intended to provide
dwelling units for occupancy by persons requiring the level of care and support
defined by the State of Texas as “supervised living”.
      DWELLING, GUESTHOUSE. A residential dwelling, which may include living,
sleeping, bathing, and kitchen facilities but is secondary to the main dwelling
structure and is used solely for habitation of guests on a temporary basis and
at no compensation to the owner. May be utilized by a relative of the owner on
a permanent basis.
      DWELLING, INDUSTRIALIZED HOUSING.  A detached residential building that
is designed for the use and occupancy of one family, that is constructed in one
or more modules or constructed using one or more modular components built at a
location other than the permanent residential site, and that is designed to be
used as a permanent residential structure when the modules or modular
components are transported to the permanent residential site and are erected or
installed on a permanent foundation system. The term does not include any
residential structure that is in excess of three  stories or 49 feet in height
as measured from the finished grade elevation at the building entrance to the
peak of the roof. The term shall not mean nor apply to:
          (a)   Housing constructed of sectional or panelized systems not
utilizing modular components; or
         (b)   Any ready made home which is constructed so that the entire
living area is contained in a single unit or section at a temporary location
for the purpose of selling it and moving it to another location.
      DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOUSING or MOBILE HOME.  Defined and
differentiated by the following:
         (a)   MOBILE HOME.  A structure that was constructed before June 15,
1976, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is
eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length; or when
erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing,
heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems.
         (b)   HUD CODE MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure, constructed on or
after June 15, 1976, according to the rules of the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development, transportable in one or more sections, which, in
the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more
in length; or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems.
      DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY.  A residential building containing three or more
dwelling units, with the number of families in residence not exceeding the
number of dwelling units provided.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED.  An attached residential building, not
including a mobile home or HUD Code manufactured home, which contains not more
than one dwelling unit per lot of record.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED.  A detached residential building, not
including a mobile home or a HUD Code manufactured home, which contains not
more than one dwelling unit per lot of record.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A residential building containing two dwelling
units.
      ELECTRICAL GENERATING STATION. A facility designed to convert electrical
current from other energy sources for consumption by dwellings and other
structures.
      ELECTRICAL SUB-STATION.  A facility designed to convert electrical
current to a different phase or voltage prior to consumption by dwellings and
other structures.
      ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION LINE.  A high voltage line used to transmit
electrical current to or between electrical substations or long distances and
customarily associated with towers.
      ELECTRONICS MANUFACTURING.  A facility for the production of printed
circuit boards, microchips, and other electronic parts which may be assembled
on site into end products such as computers, televisions, radios, and
communication equipment.
      EXTERMINATING SERVICE.  A business providing extermination services for
household pests, including insects and rodents.
      FACTORY OUTLET, RETAIL OR WHOLESALE STORE.  An establishment that offers
goods and products to the public that are obtained direct from the manufacturer
at prices that reflect savings due to the reduced cost of said direct
distribution.
      FARM MACHINERY AND IMPLEMENT SALES AND SERVICE.  An enclosed area
designed for sales and repair of farm machinery.
      FEED AND FARM SUPPLY STORE. A retail establishment offering for sale to
the public feed and supplies for animals.
      FLOOR COVERING STORE. A retail establishment for the storing and sale of
floor coverings such as carpet and tile and associated products.
      FLORIST SHOP. A retail establishment offering flowers, flower arrangement
services and associated products for sale.
      FUNERAL HOME, MORTUARY.  A building or part thereof used for human
funeral services. Such building may contain space and facilities for cremation
facilities, embalming, and the performance of other services used in
preparation of the dead for burial; the performance of autopsies and other
surgical procedures; the storage of caskets, funeral urns, and other related
supplies; and the storage of funeral vehicles. Where a funeral home is
permitted, a funeral chapel shall also be permitted.
      FURNITURE, FIXTURE, AND APPLIANCE STORE. A retail establishment offering
home furnishings, fixtures, and appliances to the general public.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE.  An enclosed two-car accessory building or portion of a
main building on the same lot and used for the storage only of private
passenger motor vehicles and recreational vehicles, owned and used by the
owners or tenants of the premises.
      GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion thereof, except as herein defined
as a private garage or as a repair garage, used for the storage of motor
vehicles, or where any such vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire; in
which any sale of gasoline, oil, and accessories is only incidental to the
principal use. Facilities for washing may be provided.
      GARAGE, REPAIR. A building or space for the repair or maintenance of
motor vehicles, not including factory assembly of vehicles, auto wrecking
establishments, or junkyards.
      GAS REGULATOR STATION.  A station used to regulate the flow or pressure
of gas in a pipeline.
      GIFT SHOP.  A shop offering gifts, souvenirs, and associated products for
sale.
      GO CART TRACK AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE TRACK OR FACILITY.  A private,
commercial enterprise offering outdoor go-cart tracks to the general public for
a fee or charge. A go-cart is a non-licensed motorized low horse power vehicle
powered by either a gas or electrical motor to be used for the purpose of
entertainment, generally having the capacity of one driver/operator. Does not
include remote control vehicles.
      GOLF COURSE, DRIVING RANGE.  An establishment offering areas for driving
of golf balls including “pitch and putt” facilities.
      GOLF COURSE, MINIATURE.  An establishment offering facilities for
miniature golf.
      GOLF COURSE, PRIVATE.  Grounds and facilities used in the playing of the
game golf, for use by private membership.
      GOLF COURSE, PUBLIC. Grounds and facilities used in the playing of the
game golf, privately owned but open to the public for a fee and operated as a
commercial venture.
      GOVERNMENTAL ADMINISTRATION FACILITY. A building or structure owned,
operated, or occupied by governmental agency to provide a governmental service
to the public.
      GREENHOUSE or PLANT NURSERY. An establishment operated for commercial
purposes, offering plants grown on premises and off premises and associated
products for sale for use in connection with home gardening activities.
      GROCERY STORE. A retail store primarily engaged in the retail sales of
all sorts of canned goods, dry goods, fresh fruits and vegetables, and fresh
and prepared meats, fish, and poultry.
      GROUP HOME FOR THE DISABLED OR DISADVANTAGED. 
         (a)   A dwelling shared by four or more disabled persons, including
resident staff, who live together as a single housekeeping unit and in a long-
term, family-like environment in which staff persons provide care, education,
and participation in community activities for the residents with the primary
goal of enabling the resident to live as independently as possible in order to
reach their maximum potential.
         (b)   1.   As used herein, the term DISABLED shall mean having:
               a.   A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits
one or more of the person’s major life activities so that such person is
incapable of living independently;
               b.   A record of having such an impairment; or
               c.   Being regarded as having such an impairment.
            2.   However, DISABLED shall not include current illegal use of or
addiction to controlled substance, nor shall it include any person whose
residency in the home would constitute a direct threat to the health and safety
of other individuals. The term GROUP HOME FOR THE DISABLED shall not include
alcoholism or drug treatment center, work release facilities for convicts or
ex-convicts, or other housing facilities serving as an alternative to
incarceration.
      GUN SHOP SALES AND SERVICE. A business of any size occupied by a firearms
dealer where a majority of the floor area or dollar volume is devoted to
firearms and ammunition display and sales; or a business of any size where
firearms and ammunition sales is a section or subpart of a larger store, such
as sporting goods and hardware stores, where a portion of the sales area is
devoted to firearms and ammunition. For this definition, FIREARM shall mean any
weapon from which is propelled any missile, projectile, bullet or other mass
through a barrel by means of explosives or gas or air, but excluding antique
firearms, children’s toys, “BB” guns, stud guns, nail guns, or similar
industrial tools or medical instruments.
      GYMNASIUM.  A building or room used for physical education and sports,
which may be equipped with gymnastic or other sports related equipment and
which may have seating in which spectators may view sports activities.
      HARDWARE STORE.  An establishment offering hand tools, small building
materials, and associated convenience items for sale to the general public.
      HEALTH CLUB, RECREATION FACILITY. An indoor facility including uses such
as game courts, exercise equipment, locker rooms, Jacuzzi, and/or sauna and pro
shop, gymnasiums, private clubs (athletic, health, or recreational), reducing
salons, and weight control establishments.
      HEARING AID SALES AND SERVICES. A retail establishment providing hearing
exams and hearing aids and associated products for sale.
      HELIPORT. A landing facility for rotary wing aircraft subject to
regularly scheduled use and may include fueling or servicing facilities for
such craft.
      HELISTOP. A landing pad for occasional and infrequent use by rotary wing
aircraft with no fueling facilities.
      HOBBY STUDIO, PRIVATE. An accessory activity area, used by the occupants
of the premises purely for personal enjoyment, amusement, recreation, or
cultivation of artistic talents.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation customarily conducted for gain or support
entirely within a dwelling by a member or members of a family while residing
therein, and which is clearly incidental and secondary to the residential use
of the premises and does not change the character thereof. See §§
150.90 through
150.99 of the Town Code.
      HOSPITAL. An institution specializing in giving clinical, temporary, and
emergency services of a medical or surgical nature to human patients and
injured persons, and licensed by state law to provide facilities and services
in surgery, obstetrics, and general medical practice including related
facilities such as laboratories, out-patient departments, training facilities,
central services facilities, and staff offices that are an integral part of the
facilities. Hospitals may include supportive retail and personal service uses
operated by or under the control of the hospital primarily for the convenience
of patients, staff, and visitors.
      HOTEL; MOTEL.  A building or portion thereof in which ten or more guest
rooms are provided for occupancy for compensation by transient guests.
      HOUSEHOLD FURNISHING AND FIXTURES STORE. A retail establishment offering
home furnishings and appliances for sale to the public.
      JUNK.  Defined to mean, and shall include, scrap iron, scrap tin, scrap
brass, scrap copper, scrap lead, or scrap zinc and all other scrap metals and
their alloys, and bones, rags, used cloth, used rubber, used rope, used
tinfoil, used bottles, old cotton or used machinery, used tools, used
appliances, used fixtures, used utensils, used boxes or crates, used pipe or
pipe fittings, used automobile or airplane tires, and other manufactured goods
that are so worn, deteriorated or obsolete as to make them unusable in their
existing condition, subject to being dismantled for junk.
      KENNEL. A lot or premises on which four or more dogs, cats or other
domestic animals at least four months of age are housed or accepted for
boarding, trimming, grooming and/or bathing for which remuneration is received.
      LABORATORY, MEDICAL AND/OR DENTAL.  A facility with materials and
scientific and technological equipment designed for scientific experimentation,
examination, evaluation, and documentation for medical and other technologies.
      LANDSCAPE SERVICE. A business principally engaged in the decorative and
functional alteration, planting, and maintenance of grounds. Such a business
may engage in the installation and construction of underground improvements
necessary to support or sustain the landscaped surface of the ground.
      LAUNDRY, DRY CLEANING AND DYEING PLANT.  A facility that provides laundry
service on a bulk basis at the industrial level, which may also have facilities
to alter the color of fabrics. Customers are generally large volume users such
as the restaurant industry, facilities using uniforms, hotel/motel industry,
etc.
      LAUNDRY, DRY CLEANING FULL SERVICE.  A retail establishment providing
full service laundry and dry cleaning services to the general public.
      LAUNDRY, DRY CLEANING PICKUP AND RECEIVING STATION. A retail
establishment providing a dropoff and pick-up point for customers to leave
wearing apparel or other material in need of laundry and dry cleaning and pick
up of items when laundered and/or dry cleaned.
      LAUNDRY, DRY CLEANING SELF SERVICE.  A retail establishment providing
facilities for customers to launder or dry clean wearing apparel or other
materials.
      LIBRARY.  Buildings and structures open for the general public, for which
a fee may or may not be charged for the use of book and other media
collections.
      LITHOGRAPHY OR PRINT SHOP. A large commercial printing shop with multiple
presses and capabilities.
      LOCKSMITH SHOP.  A shop that specializes in making, selling, and
repairing keys, locks, and associated material.
      LODGE, FRATERNAL, SORORITY, AND CLUBS. An association of persons meeting
regularly for their mutual benefit or for the promotion of some common purpose,
supported jointly through payment of membership dues, all members having the
right to vote on policies and business.
      MACHINE SHOP. A shop that manufactures metal products through the use of
presses, stamps, and dyes.
      MACHINERY SALES OR REPAIR.  A facility for the storage, repair, outside
sales, or rental of heavy machinery or equipment.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel of land not less than
three acres in size developed for rental or sale of lots for the installation
for residential uses of HUD Code manufactured housing.
      MANUFACTURED OR INDUSTRIALIZED HOUSING SALES OR RENTAL. An area devoted
to outside sales or rental of HUD-Code manufactured homes or industrialized
housing. For off- premise residential use only.
      MANUFACTURING FACILITY (LIGHT).  A facility used for sub-assembly, or
assembly of sub-assemblies for industrial purposes, and may conduct
manufacturing that does not emit noise, odor, dust, or other hazards.
      MEAT MARKET. A retail facility that offers meat, fish, and poultry
products for sale to the public and shall include the sale of meat and meat
products to restaurants, hotels, clubs, and other similar establishments when
such sale is conducted as part of the retail business on the premises.
      MEAT PRODUCT PROCESSING.  A facility for processing cuts of meat from
off-site into finished products.
      MEDICAL, DENTAL, AND OPTICAL RETAIL SALES. An establishment offering
prescription and over the counter products for sale.
      MEDICAL, DENTAL OFFICE.  Offices for one or more physicians, surgeons, or
dentists engaged in treating the sick or injured, but not including rooms for
the abiding of patients.
      MEDICAL EQUIPMENT SALES, RENTAL, AND LEASING SERVICE.  An establishment
including offices, stores, and display rooms for the display, sale, rental, and
leasing of medical equipment.
      MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings in a controlled access
and fenced compound consisting of varying sized of individual,
compartmentalized, and controlled access, self-contained units that are leased
or owned for the storage of business and household goods or contractor
supplies.
      MOTOR HOME, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND CAMPER SALES AND SERVICE.  An
establishment offering for sale to the public motor homes, recreational
vehicles and campers and also providing repair and maintenance service.
      MOTORCYCLE SALES AND SERVICE. An enclosed area designed for sales and
repair of motorcycles, with outdoor storage allowed but no outside engine
testing or riding, except in street legal equipment.
      MOVING TRUCK AND TRAILER RENTAL SERVICE. An establishment that offers
moving trucks and trailers for rental to the public.
      MUSEUM.  An institution for the collection, display, and distribution of
objects of art or science which is sponsored by or owned and operated by the
town, a public or quasi-public agency, and which facility is open to the
general public.
      MUSIC STORE.  An establishment offering music, musical instruments, and
other related items for sale to the general public. Such establishment may
offer repair services of musical instruments.
      NURSING HOME.  A structure used for or occupied by persons recovering
from illness or suffering from the infirmities of old age, including
developments containing convalescent or nursing facilities.
      OFFICE, BUSINESS.  An office in which chattels or goods, wares, or
merchandise are not commercially displayed, created, sold, or exchanged.
      OFFICE MACHINE SALES AND SERVICE. A shop specializing in the sale and
repair of office machinery.
      OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL. A building or portion of a building wherein
services are performed involving predominantly administrative, professional, or
clerical operations. Including but not limited to insurance broker, public
stenographers, real estate broker, stock broker, doctor, dentist, and other
persons who operate or conduct offices which do not require the stocking of
goods for wholesale or retail sales.
      OFFICE, REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT TRACT OR FIELD OFFICE.  A temporary
office for the purpose of selling real estate to the general public located on
or adjacent to the real estate being offered for sale.
      OFFICE SUPPLY STORE.  A store that specializes in office supplies.
      OPTICAL SALES AND SERVICES. A retail establishment providing eye exams,
eyewear and associated products for sale.
      OPTICIAN SHOP.  A shop that manufactures optical devices, especially
eyeglasses.
      PAINT SHOP. A retail establishment for the storage, mixing and sale of a
full line of retail paint supplies that may include wall coverings.
      PARK.  Public or private land available for recreational, educational,
cultural, or aesthetic use.
      PARKING AREA.  An area for the driving, parking, display, or storage of
motor vehicles.
      PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL (AUTO).  A structure or lot devoted to the
temporary parking of automobiles for a fee.
      PARKING LOT, COMMERCIAL (TRUCK).  A facility for temporary parking of
currently commercial licensed trucks in excess of one ton, for a fee.
      PAWN SHOP.  A shop specializing in making small loans against personal
property or buying used personal goods from individuals.
      PET SHOP.  A shop offering small animals for sale, with associated goods
and services.
      PHARMACEUTICAL PLANT.  A facility for the production of drugs for
medicine.
      PHARMACEUTICAL PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING. A facility for the production of
drugs for medicine.
      PHARMACY.  An establishment offering prescription and over the counter
pharmaceuticals and other associated products for sale to the public.
      PHILANTHROPIC AND/OR CHARITABLE USE.  A nonprofit organization supported
mainly by charity and whose principal function is the performance of charitable
work.
      PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT SALES AND SERVICE.  A shop that specializes in the
sale and repair of photographic equipment.
      PHOTOGRAPHIC SERVICE.  An establishment offering drop off of film for
processing and pickup of developed photographs and related services.
      PLASTIC PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING.  A facility for the production of molded
products constructed out of plastic, fiberglass, or other composite material.
      PRIVATE CLUB.  An establishment providing social and dining facilities as
well as alcoholic beverage service to an association of persons and otherwise
falling within the definition of and permitted under the provisions of that
portion of Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code, Title 3, Ch. 32, as hereafter amended
and as it pertains to the operation of private clubs.
      PUBLIC MAINTENANCE BUILDING, STORAGE YARD. A structure or yard that is
used for storage of equipment, materials, or other property and that is owned
and maintained by a governmental entity.
      PUBLIC SAFETY FACILITY, POLICE AND FIRE.  A facility designed to provide
public protection from dangers of fire and crime, including civil defense,
operational centers, police and fire stations, and training facilities.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. A closely regulated enterprise with a franchise for
providing to the public a utility service deemed necessary for the public
health, safety, and welfare.
      RADIO, TELEVISION STUDIO.  A facility designed to create and broadcast
original source programming, or relay commercial programming from another
source, including taped or pre-recorded materials for any part of the radio
spectrum for commercial consumption.
      RAILROAD FREIGHT TERMINAL. A facility for the assembly or storage of
freight to or from rail cars.
      RECREATION VEHICLE (RV) PARK (SHORT TERM).  A parcel of land reserved for
the location of recreational vehicles, used for habitation, consisting of pop-
out units, fifth-wheel units, campers on pickups, and motor homes but does not
include pop-up trailers and or tents. Docking sites on which RV units are
located shall have appropriate utilities provided for individual units. Lodging
in the recreation vehicles shall be on a transient basis and the park shall
include associated buildings and facilities set aside exclusively for the use
of patrons of the RV park.
      RECREATIONAL RANCH OR FARM.  An establishment incorporating a variety of
rural uses, including sports arenas, rodeo grounds, pavilions, animal stables,
and facilities which may be rented for private parties.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STORAGE (COMMERCIAL).  A facility or location which,
upon payment of a fee, provides for the parking and storage of recreational
vehicles.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION CENTER. A building in which used materials such as
newspapers, glassware, and metal cans are separated and processed prior to
shipment to others who will use those materials to manufacture new products.
      RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.  Facilities in which persons regularly assemble
for religious worship and activities intended primarily for purposes connected
with such worship or propagating a particular form of religious belief.
      RENTAL SERVICE WITH INSIDE STORAGE. An establishment that offers items
for short term rental to the public which may include hand tools, small
equipment such as lawn equipment, tables, linens and other items that do not
require outside storage.
      RENTAL SERVICE WITH OUTSIDE STORAGE. An establishment that offers items
for short term rental to the public which may include construction equipment
such as tractors and other items that require outside storage.
      RENTAL STORE.  An establishment that provides equipment and goods for
rent by the general public to be used off site. All storage of rental equipment
and goods shall be contained within the limits of the primary structure.
      RENTAL YARD, COMMERCIAL AND HEAVY EQUIPMENT.  An establishment that
provides heavy equipment for rent to contractors or the general public to be
used off site. The storage of rental equipment or goods may occur either within
the limits of the primary structure or may be displayed and stored outside of
the primary structure. Areas reserved for repairs and maintenance of all
equipment or goods must be within the primary structure.
      RESTAURANT. A business establishment whose principal business is the
selling of unpackaged food to the customer in a ready-to-consume state, in
individual servings, or in non-disposable containers, and where the customer
consumes these foods while seated at tables or counters located within the
building. Such use includes cafes, lunch rooms, and tea rooms.
      RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN/DRIVE-THRU.  Any place or premises used for sale,
dispensing, or serving of food, refreshments, or beverages in automobiles,
including those establishments where customers may serve themselves and may eat
or drink the food, refreshments, or beverages on the premises.
      RESTAURANT, REFRESHMENT STAND (TEMPORARY OR SEASONAL).  Any place or
premises used for sale, dispensing, or serving of food, refreshments, or
beverages from a temporary or permanent building on a temporary or seasonal
basis.
      RODEO GROUND/FAIR GROUND.  An outdoor entertainment area providing an
arena for rodeo activities, including grandstands and bleachers for the viewing
public, storage pens, and facilities for the caring and presentation of
livestock, and open area for exhibits and carnival activities.
      ROOMING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where lodging for three but
not more than 12 persons is provided for definite periods for compensation
pursuant to previous arrangement.
      SALVAGE YARD. An area for salvage of metals, and/or other fabricated
products, which may include a yard or building where automobiles or parts of
automobiles or machinery are stored, dismantled and/or offered for sale in the
open as whole units, as salvaged parts or as processed metal.
      SCHOOL, BUSINESS COLLEGE.  A facility that provides a curriculum limited
to the teaching of office and business practices and skills.
      SCHOOL, COLLEGE OR UNIVERSITY. An academic institution of higher
learning, accredited or recognized by the state, and offering a program or
series of programs of academic study leading to a recognized degree or advanced
degree, including junior and senior colleges, universities, conservatories and
seminaries.
      SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL INSTRUCTION.  A facility that instructs and trains
students in the arts, such as of music, dance, gymnastics, or martial arts, and
is primarily operated on a commercial basis.
      SCHOOL, COMMERCIAL TRADE.  A business organized to operate for a profit
and offering instruction and training in a trade such as welding, brick laying,
machinery operation, and similar manual trades.
      SCHOOL, HOME.  Educational activities consisting of a defined curriculum
with the purpose of satisfying the state educational requirements and said
educational activities being conducted in the home of a student living in the
home. Said educational activities shall be considered to be a part of the
housekeeping activities of a family.
      SCHOOL, HOME DAY.  Educational activities consisting of a defined
curriculum with the purpose of satisfying the state educational requirements
and said educational activities being conducted in a home but not necessarily
the home of the student living therein. There shall be no more than six
unrelated students not living in the home in which the educational activities
are being conducted. The total number of students living in the home in which
the activities are being conducted shall not exceed 12 at any given time.
      SCHOOL, INSTITUTION, REHABILITATION, AND TRAINING CENTER.  A facility
that provides rehabilitation and training operated or sponsored by chartered
educational, religious, or philanthropic organizations, but excluding uses such
as trade schools, which are operated primarily on a commercial basis.
      SCHOOL, PRIMARY OR SECONDARY.  A public or private facility that provides
a curriculum of elementary or secondary academic instruction, including
kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high schools, and high schools.
      SCHOOL, VOCATIONAL.  A secondary or higher education facility primarily
teaching usable skills that prepare students for jobs in a trade and meeting
the state requirements of a vocational facility.
      SECONDHAND MERCHANDISE, DEALERS OR STORAGE (SCREENED). An establishment
that keeps, handles, stores or uses furniture, appliances and/or other
merchandise or goods for sale to the public or display; or an item which has
previously been sold at the wholesale or retail level or previously used by an
individual or business.
      SHOE REPAIR. An establishment offering shoe repair service to the general
public.
      SIGN SHOP, PAINTED OR SILKSCREENED.  A retail business offering signs and
banners for sale.
      SKATING RINK. An establishment that provides facilities for participant
ice or roller skating.
      SMOKE AND TOBACCO SHOP.  An establishment which sells tobacco products
such as cigarettes, cigars, chewing tobacco, snuff, pipe tobacco, and tobacco
paraphernalia and which prohibits minors to enter or remain upon the premises,
unless the minor is accompanied by the minor’s parent.
      SPORTING GOODS, UNIFORMS, AND TROPHY SALES. A retail establishment
offering for sale to the public sporting goods, uniforms, trophies and
associated products.
      STABLE, COMMERCIAL.  A building designed for the keeping of horses or
mules used for pleasure riding or driving, for boarding, or for hire, including
a riding track.
      STABLE, PRIVATE.  A building designed for the keeping of horses or mules
owned by the occupants of the premises and not kept for remuneration, hire, or
sale.
      STOCKYARD.  An area designed to receive and transfer large quantities of
livestock, containing a number of holding pens, loading and unloading areas,
ramps, and other facilities required for the handling of large quantities of
livestock.
      STONE MONUMENT SALES.  A retail establishment offering for sale stone
monuments produced off-premises, excluding cutting of slabs.
      STORAGE AND WAREHOUSING ESTABLISHMENT.  A facility that is constructed
such that large quantities of products or goods may be stored for extended
periods of time. Said facility may be equipped with loading ramps and docks
that facilitate the loading and off-loading of semi-trailer vehicles.
      STORAGE YARD.  Facilities to store any equipment, machinery, building
materials, or commodities, including raw, semi-finished, and finished materials
outside at ground level.
      STUDIO. A facility for professional work or teaching of any form of
commercial or fine arts, photography, music, drama, dance, but not including
commercial gymnasium or dance hall.
      SWIMMING POOL, PRIVATE.  A swimming pool and accessory facilities
constructed for the exclusive use of the property owner and guests, when
located in other than the minimum front yard.
      SWIMMING POOL, WATER PARK, COMMERCIAL.  A swimming pool and accessory
facilities, not part of the municipal or public recreation system, and not a
private swim club, but where the facilities are available to the general public
for a fee.
      TANNING SALON. A retail establishment providing tanning services and
associated products to the public.
      TATTOO PARLOR/BODY PIERCING STUDIO.  An establishment whose principle
business activity, either in terms of operation or as held out to the public,
is the practice of one or more of the following:
          (a)   Placing of designs, letters, figures, symbols, or other marks
upon or under the skin of any person, using ink or other substances that result
in the permanent coloration of the skin by means of the use of needles or other
instruments designed to contact or puncture the skin;
         (b)   Creation of an opening in the body of a person for the purpose
of inserting jewelry or other decoration.
      TAXIDERMIST STUDIO.  A retail establishment offering for sale to the
public the products produced by a taxidermist at a separate location.
      TAXIDERMIST SHOP.  An establishment offering the services of taxidermy.
      TELEPHONE EXCHANGE, SWITCHING, OR RELAY.  A facility for the exchange,
switching, relaying, or transmission of telephone services, not including
public office facilities, storage, or repair facilities.
      TEXTILE MANUFACTURING.  Includes knitting, weaving, printing, and
finishing of textiles and fibers into fabric goods.
      THEATER, INDOOR MOTION PICTURE.  An establishment offering motion
pictures for viewing by the public.
      TIRE SALES AND SERVICE. An enclosed retail establishment that stores,
repairs and sells tires and associated products.
      UPHOLSTERY SHOP. A shop for the upholstery of furniture and automotive
interiors.
      UTILITY BUILDING AND STRUCTURES. Operations such as power substations,
water tanks or reservoirs, water or sewage treatment plants, also including
supportive structures such as pump and lift stations.
      VETERINARIAN OFFICE, LARGE ANIMAL PRACTICE. The offices of a doctor of
veterinary medicine with on site treatment of large domestic animals, which may
consist of livestock and/or other farm animals and may include outside
treatment pens, shelters, or barns.
      VETERINARIAN OFFICE, SMALL ANIMAL PRACTICE. The offices of a doctor of
veterinary medicine with on site treatment of small domestic animals, which
consist primarily of household pets and animals that are not sheltered in pens
or barns (excluding dog runs and pens).
      VETERINARY HOSPITAL WITH OUTSIDE PENS.  An office and clinic of a doctor
of veterinary medicine for small domestic animal practice including outside
treatment pens.
      VETERINARY HOSPITAL WITHOUT OUTSIDE PENS.  An office and clinic of a
doctor of veterinary medicine for small domestic animal practice, without
outside treatment pens.
      VIDEO/GAME RENTAL.  A commercial establishment that provides as a service
a library of video movies and video games which may be rented on a short term
basis and returned for reuse.
      WATCH AND/OR JEWELRY SALES AND REPAIR. An establishment offering watches
and jewelry for sale to the public, and offering repair services for jewelry,
watches, and similar items.
      WAREHOUSING AND FREIGHT OFFICE AND STORAGE.  A use engaged in storage,
wholesale sales, and distribution of manufactured products, supplies, and
equipment, but excluding bulk storage of materials that are flammable or
explosive or that create hazardous or commonly recognized offensive conditions.
      WEDDING OR SPECIAL EVENT VENUE. A facility that is available for rental
to the public to host weddings, receptions, banquets, or other special events.
      WELDING OR MACHINE SHOP.  A facility for the machining and welding of
metals, not including forging or structural welding.
      WIRELESS TRANSMISSION OR RECEIVING FACILITY. A structure or structures
supporting antennas and/or commercial satellite antenna dishes which are
transmitting or receiving any portion of the radio spectrum including wireless
communication facilities, but excluding non-commercial antenna installations
for home use of radio or television.  See §
151.029 and division (C) below.
   (C)   Wireless communications facilities definitions.  The following
definitions shall apply.
      ANTENNA.  A device used in communications which transmits or receives
radio signals.
      ANTENNA, BUILDING ATTACHED. 
         (a)   Antenna attached to existing structures in two general forms:
            1.   Roof-mounted, in which antennas are placed on the roofs of
buildings, or
            2.   Building-mounted, in which antennas are mounted to the sides
of buildings.
         (b)   These antennas can also be mounted on structures such as water
tanks, billboards, church steeples, electrical transmission towers, etc.
      ANTENNA FACILITY.  A building or independent support structure and the
antennas mounted thereon, along with an associated and necessary equipment
building.
      ANTENNA, MICROWAVE (also known as DISH ANTENNA).  A dish-shaped antenna
used to link communications sites together by wireless transmission of voice or
data, utilizing electromagnetic radiation frequencies from 3 GHz to 300 GHz;
and using relatively low transmitter power levels when compared to other forms
of transmission.
      ANTENNA, PANEL (also known as DIRECTIONAL ANTENNA).  An antenna or array
of antennas designed to concentrate a radio signal in a particular area. Panel
antenna are typically flat, rectangular devices approximately six square feet
in size.
      ANTENNA, WHIP (also known as OMNIDIRECTIONAL ANTENNA).  Shaped
cylindrically, whip antennas have diameters between two and six inches, and
measure between one and 18 feet in height. They are used to emit signals in a
360 degree horizontal plane and a compressed vertical plane.
      CO-LOCATION. The act of locating wireless communications equipment from
more than one provider on a single antenna facility.
      EQUIPMENT STORAGE.  A small unmanned, single story equipment building
less than 500 square feet in size used to house radio transmitters and related
equipment.
      LATTICE TOWER.  A tower having three or four support steel legs and
holding a variety of antennas. These towers range from 60 to 200 feet in height
and can accommodate a variety of users.
      MONOPOLE.  An antenna facility composed of a single spire used to support
communications equipment. No guy wires are used or permitted.
      SATELLITE RECEIVE-ONLY ANTENNA.  An antenna that enables the receipt of
television signals transmitted directly from satellites to be viewed on a
television monitor. Such antennas are commonly known as a satellite dish,
television receive-only antenna, dish antenna, parabolic antenna or satellite
earth station antenna.
      STEALTH FACILITY.  An antenna facility that is virtually transparent or
invisible to the surrounding neighborhood.  Stealth facilities may include
totally enclosed antennas, wireless facilities that replicate or duplicate the
construction of common structures such as flagpoles, and camouflaged wireless
facilities that are constructed to blend into the surrounding environment.
(Ord. 312, passed 6-22-2010; Ord. 319, passed 12-9-2010; Ord. 341, passed 7-12-
2012)
SIGNAGE
§ 151.050  PURPOSE.
   The intent of this subchapter is to protect value within the Town of
Lakeside, to enhance the beauty of the town, and to protect the general public
from damage and injury which may be caused by unregulated construction of
signs.
(Ord. 174, passed 9-14-1995)
§ 151.051  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF SIGN.  The total area within the extremes perimeter of the
attraction area intended to draw attention to the sign.  Supporting structures
shall not be included in calculations.  The area of the sign with two faces,
approximately opposed, shall be that of the larger face if the condition
prevails; but, if the angle between the planes of the opposing faces exceeds 30
degrees, the total area of both faces shall be considered the sign area.  For
multi-sided or circular signs, the calculation shall include all of the
projected area.
   BANNER SIGN.  Any sign painted on a strip of cloth, canvas, or light fabric
with or without frames intended to be displayed for a short period of time.
   BILLBOARDS.  Any flat surface erected on a framework or any structure, or
attached to posts and used for, or designed to be used for the display of
bills, posters, or other advertising material, for the purpose of advertising a
business or activity not located on the same premises as the advertising
material.  Mobile advertising, hand-carried signs, and political signs shall
not be considered a billboard for the purposes of this chapter.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any nonresidential property improvement or properties improved
as a unit with a common parking area that is contiguous to the development.  A
shopping center under single or multiple ownership constitutes a development. 
A pad site within a shopping center under separate ownership constitutes a
development.  Any single lot, single structure on nonresidential property
constitutes a development.
   DIGITAL MESSAGE BOARD. A sign, display or device, internally illuminated,
which changes the static message or copy by electronic means. The sign must be
operated by an entity possessing an outdoor advertising license issued by the
Texas Department of Transportation (TXDOT).
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. A sign utilizing a fixed light source to provide a
message in text, pictures or symbols. Electronic message boards shall not
appear to move or appear as an on/off message.
   FLAG.  United States-, Texas-, company-, and award-type flags flown from
flag poles.
   GROUND SIGNS.  A sign not wholly supported on a building or which has its
main supporting structure depending on the ground for attachment.
   LIMITED ACCESS FREEWAY.  A highway to which the right of access to or from
abutting lands is controlled and restricted by the State Department of Highways
and Public Transportation or the Town of Lakeside, further, a LIMITED ACCESS
FREEWAY shall be bordered on each side by access roads.  The LIMITED ACCESS
FREEWAY within the Town of Lakeside is State Highway 199, Jacksboro Highway.
   MARQUEE SIGN.  Includes any hood or awning or permanent construction
projecting from the wall of a building or other structure containing either
permanent or changeable advertising.
   MONUMENT SIGN.  A sign constructed out of brick, stone, or cast concrete
supported on concrete foundation.
   PROJECTING SIGN.  A sign suspended from a building or structure and
projecting out therefrom more than one foot.
   PYLON SIGN.  A ground sign erected for the purposes of identifying the
tenants in a development as defined by this section.
   QUALIFIED STREET FRONTAGE.  The width of property along the street of a
commercial or industrial development which bears the address of the property.
   ROOF SIGN.  Any sign supported by the roof of a building or placed above the
apparent flat roof or eaves of a building as viewed from any elevation.
   SIGHT TRIANGLE.  An area of unobstructed visibility or either corner of a
street and/or driveway of at least 25 feet in any direction.
   SIGN.  A display board, screen, structure, object, or part thereof, used to
announce, declare, demonstrate, display, or otherwise advertise and attract the
attention of the public to any business, service, or product provided on the
premises upon which the sign is placed, other than:
      (1)   Official notices authorized by court, public body, or public
officer; and
      (2)   Directional, warning, or informational signs authorized by federal,
state, or municipal authority.
   TEMPORARY SIGN.  A sign, balloon, or other advertising display constructed
of cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wall board, or other light material
with or without frames intended to be displayed for a short period of time
only.  Trailer and portable signs are so classified.
   TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNS.  Any sign used only to control and direct traffic on
private property, e.g., “Enter” or “Exit.”
   WALL SIGN.  Any sign painted on, attached to, or projecting from the wall
surface of a building (including permanent window signs and signs on awnings
and/or marquees).  A WALL SIGN shall not project above the apparent flat roof
or eave line as viewed from all elevations, or more than one foot from the
surface of the wall.
   WALL SURFACE.  The general outer surface not including cornices, bay
windows, or other ornamental trim, of any main exterior wall of the building.
(Ord. 174, passed 9-14-1995; Ord. 385, passed 8-17-2014)
§ 151.052  SIGN PERMIT AND FEES.
   (A)   Sign permit required.
      (1)   No person shall erect, alter, add to a sign or sign structure,
except as provided in this section and unless a permit for the same has been
issued by the Town Administrator.  Where signs are illuminated by electric
lighting requiring permanent wiring connections, a separate electrical permit
shall be obtained as required by the Electrical Code of the town.  Billboards
are not authorized within the Town of Lakeside and permits will not be issued.
      (2)   Temporary sign may be permitted to business or developments.
   (B)   Official, quasi-official, and directional signs.
      (1)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the erection, construction
and maintenance of official, traffic, fire and police signs, signals, devices
and markings of the state, town, or other appropriate governmental authorities,
nor the posting of notices required by law.  Private and quasi-public signs
shall be prohibited upon public property unless authorized by the town or other
appropriate governmental authority.
      (2)   Legal notices, telephone and other underground utility warning
signs not exceeding one square foot in size and other safety signs may be
erected without a permit being issued.
   (C)   Application for sign permit.  Applications for sign permits shall be
taken to Lakeside Town Hall for each development on which the sign or signs are
to be erected and shall contain or have attached thereto the following
information:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (2)   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the
sign or advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
      (3)   Position of the sign or advertising structure in relation to nearby
buildings or structures;
      (4)   Three blueprints or ink drawings of the plans, specifications, and
method of construction and specifications and method of construction detailing
attachment to the building or ground;
      (5)   Copy of stress sheets and calculations showing the structures are
designed for deadload and wind pressure in any direction in the amount as
required by the International Conference of Building Officials codes.  All
structural calculations and design drawings are to be by a professional
engineer registered by the State of Texas;
      (6)   Name of person, firm, corporation, or association erecting
structure or painting of a sign;
      (7)   Any electrical permit required and issued for each sign;
      (8)   Detailed plan of all existing signs, including photos and/or other
pertinent data which will aid in the determination to the sign’s conformance
with this chapter;
      (9)   Any other information as the Town Administrator shall require to
show full compliance with this and all other codes and ordinances of the town;
and
      (10)   (a)   An application fee shall be charged and paid at the time any
application for the issuance of a sign permit is made.  In addition, if it is
determined that a sign permit should be issued, the applicant shall pay an
additional amount for the permit itself.  No sign that requires a permit may be
erected or placed until all fees are paid.
         (b)   A schedule of fees for the application for a permit and for the
issuance of a permit shall be adopted by the City Council by resolution.  The
City Council may change and modify such fees by resolution from time to time.
   (D)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   The lawful use of any sign at the time this chapter was adopted may
be continued for a period of five years, after which any sign not in compliance
with this chapter shall be considered nonconforming.
      (2)   Except as this chapter may otherwise require, any nonconforming
sign may be continued in operation on the same land and/or on the same
structure which was in use on the effective date of these regulations or on the
effective date of any amendment by which the use became nonconforming, but the
sign area advertising and/or structure shall not change.
      (3)   No new permit may be issued for a sign which does not conform to
the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Approval of traffic engineers.  If, in the opinion of the Town
Administrator, the plans and specifications indicate that the sign or sign
structure might interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic, and if a ground
sign is to be placed on a corner lot and in the opinion of the Town
Administrator, could create a potential hazard to traffic, the applicant shall
be required to submit the certification from a qualified traffic engineer that
the sign location and structure will not constitute a hazard.
   (F)   Issuance of permits.  If it shall appear that the proposed sign
structure is in compliance with all the requirements of this section and all
other codes and ordinances of the town and has received approval where
necessary, the Town Administrator shall then issue the sign permit.  If work
authorized under the permit has not been completed within 180 days or a proper
extension granted thereto after the date of issuance, the permit shall become
null and void.  Issuance of a sign permit shall be conditioned upon the
applicant’s acceptance of any conditions imposed by the town.
   (G)   Unsafe and unlawful signs.
      (1)   Signs or sign structures including those existing prior to this
section shall be maintained at all times in a state of good repair, safe and
secure with all braces, bolts, slips, supporting frame and fastenings free from
deterioration, termite infestation, rot, rust or loosening, able to withstand
at all times the wind pressure for which they were originally designed.
      (2)   No person maintaining any sign, sign structure, digital message
board or electronic message board shall fail to keep the ground space within
eight feet of the base of the sign, signboard, or advertising structure free
and clear of weeds, rubbish, and other flammable materials.
(Ord. 174, passed 9-14-1995; Ord. 287, passed 4-10-2008; Ord. 385, passed 8-17-
2014)
§ 151.053  AREA OF SIGN PERMITTED.
   (A)   Signs; commercial and industrial.
      (1)   For signing purposes, frontage on private streets that serve as a
public thoroughfare and not just as driveways may be considered as qualified
street frontage.
      (2)   Any one development may have one sign which may be choice of ground
sign, monument sign, roof sign or projecting sign, subject to the requirements
of the section.
      (3)   Major developments, containing 50,000 square feet or greater in
building(s) may have one pylon sign located on one street frontage.  The total
amount of signage allowed on a pylon sign shall be calculated on (.005) square
feet of signage for each square foot of floor area up to a maximum of 1,000
square feet of sign area.  Signage for each major development may reach a
maximum height of 75 feet if the sign is located on a controlled access freeway
frontage.  For all other frontages of the development, the sign may reach a
maximum of 50 feet in height and shall meet the general provisions of this
section.
      (4)   In developments with substantial street frontage; i.e., 350 linear
feet or greater, on two or more streets, additional ground signs may be
permitted for each street providing that all signs requested must meet the
provisions of division (B) below.
   (B)   Ground signs.  Ground signs are subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   One ground or pole sign may be permitted for each 300 linear feet
or portion thereof of qualified street frontage with each development in all
except “R” Districts.
      (2)   The total area of the sign permitted for a ground sign shall be
calculated as one square foot of sign for each linear foot of street frontage,
up to a maximum of 300 square feet for any one sign.
      (3)   The maximum height of any ground sign and supporting structure
shall be 25 feet, except that the height of a ground sign may be increased by
adding one foot of height for each linear foot the sign is set back from the
adjacent property lines, not to exceed an absolute maximum of 50 feet to the
top of the sign; except as noted in division (A) above.
      (4)   The height of any ground sign may not exceed one-half the shortest
linear distance from the location of the sign to the nearest boundary of any
“R” District.
      (5)   The sign shall not project over the property line of the
development, right-of-way or over any area within ten feet of the curb of a
public street.
      (6)   A minimum qualified frontage of 50 feet shall be required to erect
a ground sign.
      (7)   Permanent attachments to the ground shall be required for all
ground signs, to meet or exceed the requirements of §
151.052.
   (C)   Monument signs.  Monument signs are subject to the following
provisions.
      (1)   One monument sign may be permitted in each development in all
zoning districts, except two matching monument signs shall be allowed at the
main entrance of “R” subdivisions.
      (2)   Monument signs in all zoning districts with the exception of “R”
districts shall not exceed six feet in height and shall not exceed 150 square
feet in sign area.
      (3)   Monument signs in “R” district shall not exceed four feet in height
and shall not exceed 50 square feet in sign area.
   (D)   Banner signs.  Banner signs are subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   One banner sign may be permitted with each development without a
sign permit in all zoning districts except “R.”
      (2)   The total permitted area for banner signs shall not exceed a
maximum of 50 square feet.
      (3)   Banner signs may be attached to a wall surface or face and shall
not project above the apparent roof or eaves line.
      (4)   Banner signs shall be attached in such a manner to withstand wind
loads.
      (5)   Banner signs which have become torn, tattered, or unsightly shall
be removed.
   (E)   Freeway signs.  On properties fronting on the limited access freeways
as defined in §
151.051, the following additional provisions shall apply to ground signs
erected.
      (1)   The maximum height allowed for a ground sign located within 200
feet of a limited access freeway shall be 50 feet as measured from the location
of the sign more 35 feet above the height of the adjacent main travel lanes of
the freeway, whichever is greater.
      (2)   The maximum size for the ground sign which is located within 200
feet of the freeway shall be two square feet of sign area for each linear foot
of freeway frontage up to a maximum of 400 square feet.
   (F)   Roof signs.  Roof signs are permitted under the following provisions.
      (1)   One roof sign may be permitted with each development on all zoning
districts except “R” Districts.
      (2)   Roof signs shall not project horizontally over the edge of the roof
or eaves.
      (3)   The maximum area of roof signage shall be one square foot of sign
area for each linear foot of qualified frontage not to exceed a maximum of 200
square feet.
      (4)   The height of a roof sign shall not exceed ten feet above the
apparent flat roof or eave line.
      (5)   Roof sign supports should be architecturally attractive or screened
from view.
   (G)   Projecting signs.  Projecting signs permitted are subject to the
following provisions.
      (1)   One projecting sign may be permitted with each development in all
zoning district except the “R” Districts.
      (2)   Projecting signs shall not project over the property lines of the
development, right-of-way, or over any area within ten feet of the curb of
public street.
      (3)   A projecting sign shall not extend more than four feet from any
wall facing.
      (4)   The total permitted area of a projected sign shall be computed at
one square foot of sign area for each linear foot of qualified frontage not to
exceed a maximum of 100 square feet.
   (H)   Wall signs commercial area.
      (1)   Wall signs shall be permitted in commercial or industrial zoning
district developments provided the total area of all wall signs on any one wall
of a building shall not exceed 25% of the total wall area.
      (2)   Application of the area requirements shall include any valance or
permanent window signs.
      (3)   A wall sign shall not project above the apparent flat roof or eave
line.
      (4)   In service station/convenience stores uses when a canopy is
provided over the pump area, wall signs located on the facia area of the
canopy, or suspended on the supports of the canopy, may be permitted provided
that the total area of all signs does not exceed 25% of the total facia area of
the canopy.
   (I)   Signs; residential zones.  All signs are prohibited in the “R”
District except as follows.
      (1)   Multi-family developments in the multi-family residential zone
shall be allowed wall or ground signs for identification purposes only for each
street frontage.  The total area of the signs shall not exceed 50 square feet.
      (2)   Ground signs allowed in these districts shall not exceed a height
of four feet above grade.
      (3)   Ground signs installed in these districts shall not be located in
the required sight triangle of a street or driveway intersection.
      (4)   In “R” District developments providing solid masonry screening
along street frontages, approved wall signs may be installed in the screening
walls.
      (5)   Wall signs may be used with any residential use in “R” Zoning
District with a maximum of two square feet per sign.  No more than two signs
per occupancy.  No permit is required.
   (J)   Traffic-control signs (private property).
      (1)   The maximum area of any one traffic control sign shall be two
square feet.
      (2)   Traffic-control signs are not permitted in “R” Districts, with the
exception of the Multi-Family Residential District.
      (3)   Traffic-control signs shall not include any advertising or
attention attracting lighting, symbols, logos, or shapes.
   (K)   Memorial signs and historical tablets.  Nothing herein shall prevent
the City Council from granting special permits on the terms as it may deem
proper, for signs denoting properties or buildings which may have historical or
memorial significance to the community.  Nor shall the City Council be
restricted from authorizing signs as they deem appropriate to advertise
patriotic, special events or special projects of general public interest taking
place within the town.
   (L)   Lighting.
      (1)   Illuminated signs are permitted.  Illuminating may be by internal,
internal-indirect, or indirect lighting as defined below.  Lighting shall be so
installed as to avoid any glare or reflection into adjacent property, or onto a
street or alley to create a traffic hazard.
      (2)   When not necessary to satisfy security purposes, it is suggested
that lighting be turned off as soon after business hours as is reasonable,
especially where signs are in close proximity to residential areas.
      (3)   INTERNAL LIGHTING shall mean a source of illumination entirely
within the sign which makes the contents of the sign visible at night by means
of the light being transmitted through a translucent material but wherein the
source of the illumination is not visible.
      (4)   INTERNAL-INDIRECT LIGHTING shall mean a source of illumination
entirely within the sign which makes the sign visible at night by means of
lighting the background upon which the free standing character is mounted.  The
character itself shall be opaque, and thus will be silhouetted against the
background.  The source of illumination is not visible.
      (5)   INDIRECT LIGHTING shall mean a source of external illumination
located a distance away from the sign, which lights the sign, but which itself
is not visible to persons viewing the sign from any normal position of view.
   (M)   Rotating, moving, flashing, changing, or blinking billboard signs. 
This type sign shall not be permitted.
   (N)   Message signs.  Message signs containing changeable messages, i.e.
time and temperature, and the like, may be permitted on an individual basis by
submittal of a request to the Building Official.
(Ord. 174, passed 9-14-1995; Ord. 385, passed 8-17-2014)
§ 151.054  TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally.  Except as otherwise provided in this section:
      (1)   No person may erect a temporary sign as defined in §
151.051 without a permit from the Town Administrator;
      (2)   No temporary or portable sign shall be erected or placed to
advertise a business, industry, or pursuit except on the premises on which the
referenced business, industry, or pursuit is conducted;
      (3)   All temporary type fragile display or signage that might separate
from itself or become separated from either line under the guidelines of the
Uniform Building Code shall not be allowed.  These restrictions are to protect
the general public from flying debris generated by dismembered displays;
      (4)   No temporary or portable sign shall be attached to any utility
pole, light pole, or traffic control sign or pole;
      (5)   The complete sign package must be removed at the termination of the
permit.  Removal of letters from the sign board does not abate a nonpermitted
sign;
      (6)   No temporary sign shall be displayed more than 30 days per permit
received;
      (7)   A maximum of three temporary sign permits per year shall be issued
to any one business, industry, or pursuit.  However, consecutive permitting is
not allowed.  There shall be a 45-day period between permitting;
      (8)   Temporary signs shall not exceed 50 square feet in area;
      (9)   No temporary or portable sign shall be erected or placed within 15
feet of the curb or street except for those which may be mounted on the wall of
a building which is closer than 15 feet to the curb;
      (10)   No temporary or portable signs may be erected or placed in any
location that constitutes a safety or traffic hazard;
      (11)   No temporary or portable sign may be erected or placed in a fire
zone, fire lane, disabled parking area, or required loading zone;
      (12)   No temporary or portable sign may be erected or placed in any
location that blocks view from any permitted permanent sign;
      (13)   Temporary or portable signs shall be placed at least 100 feet
apart;
      (14)   Nonconforming temporary signs or temporary signs without permits
may be impounded by the town 48 hours after notice is given to the owner or
party responsible for the sign;
      (15)   Each temporary sign may advertise one or more business.  However,
for each business advertised, a separate permit fee will be required and each
business will be charged for the advertisement against its allocated three
permits per year; and
      (16)   Trailer and portable signs shall bear in letters of not less than
one inch in height, the company name of the sign owner and telephone number on
each unit.  This information must be current.  Any sign not containing current
information shall be classified as nonconforming and may be impounded by the
town 48 hours after notice is given to the owner or party.
   (B)   Real estate signs.  Permits shall not be required for the following
types of real estate signs.
      (1)   One temporary sign announcing the offering for sale or rental of
individually platted residential or commercial property on which it is placed
shall be allowed in any district and may be placed in any yard.  The signs
shall not exceed five square feet in area.  The signs shall be removed within
one week following the close of the sale or lease.
      (2)   On nonresidential commercial property where there is a business
building, one temporary unlighted sign offering all or portion of the same sale
or rental shall be allowed flat against any wall of the business building.  The
sign shall be no taller than the wall and shall have an area no larger than 100
square feet.  The sign shall be removed within one week following the close of
a sale or lease.
      (3)   On undeveloped property, temporary unlighted signs offering the
same for sale or lease shall be allowed.  The signs shall be located at least
25 feet behind any curb or ten feet behind any property line, whichever is
greater; and shall not exceed 15 feet in height.  The total area of all sign
message surfaces of all the signs shall not exceed one square foot per one
linear foot of street frontage of the property for sale or 100 square feet on
each street fronting the property; whichever is smaller.  Only one sign per
street frontage is permitted.  Each sign shall be removed within one week
following the close of the sale or lease.
   (C)   Weekend advertising.  The Town of Lakeside’s policy for weekend
advertising, as expressed in this chapter, is extended to homebuilders and
apartment owners for the purpose of guiding the weekend motoring public to
available residential properties in the town.  The policy is intended to
benefit also the buying public.  These provisions are designed to allow
temporary directional signs without resulting in an excess that may prove
offensive to others of the public.  The policy should also serve as common
sense guidelines in places where direct application is unclear.
      (1)   Registration.  In order for a builder/developer to be eligible to
participate in this weekend advertisement, he or she must be registered in the
Building Inspection Department.  An annual fee must be paid by each builder/
developer/owner wishing to advertise under these provisions.  The annual fee
must be paid and/or renewed during the month of January of each year.
      (2)   Schedule.  Signs will be allowed between 12;00 p.m. Friday and 12:
00 p.m. Monday.  A holiday falling on Friday or Monday will be considered part
of the weekend.
      (3)   Sign size.  Signs shall not exceed 24 inches x 30 inches in size,
not to exceed five feet above grade.
      (4)   Spacing of signs.  A minimum of 30 feet must be held between all
signs, and signs for one advertiser must be at least 200 feet apart.
      (5)   Sign location.  Individual sign locations shall adhere to the
following criteria.
         (a)   No closer than 40 feet to a street intersection or median
opening.
         (b)   Signs may be placed in town right-of-way, but no closer than
three feet from the edge of the sign to the street curb or edge of payment. 
Signs should not encroach either the sidewalks or the street.
         (c)   No sign shall be placed in the visibility triangle, as defined
in this section.  Generally, if a sign is close to blocking motorist
visibility, it should be removed.
         (d)   No signs shall be placed further than three miles from the
subject property.
      (6)   Sign construction and criteria.  Signs should be rigid, two
dimensional displays that advertise new residential property, “For Sale or
Lease,” guiding the motorist to specific location in Lakeside.
      (7)   Guidelines and limitations.  These are the guidelines under which
this policy will be administered, relating particularly to the weekend motoring
customer.  It is the responsibility of the builder/owner to secure permission
of the adjacent property owner for placement of signs on private property. 
This policy does not grant unlimited access and use of the town right-of-way. 
Violations of this policy will be cause for confiscation of signs.  Any signs
which are confiscated by the Code Enforcement Officer may be reclaimed by the
owner of the signs, but each signs so confiscated will be subject to a
redemption fee.  If signs remain unclaimed for a period of 30 days, the town
will dispose of the signs as may be appropriate.  Excessive general violations
may require that the policy be suspended for a period of time.  The Town
Administrator shall notify the City Council in the event that the suspension of
this policy is put into effect indicating the causes and period of the
suspension.  All builders/owners aid in maintaining a neat and orderly
appearance throughout the town.
   (D)   Subdivision/new development signs.
      (1)   Subdivision/new development signs are to be used for the
identification of a new project, such as a subdivision, where real property is
being sold for the first time to user, new buildings, public projects and the
like.  These signs are not permanent but may be required for a longer period of
time than most temporary signs.
      (2)   Each subdivision and/or development shall be permitted to install
one on-site sign located on the property owned by the advertiser in the same
zoning district as the project and one off-site sign which may be located in
any commercial, industrial, or office district or on unplatted vacant property.
      (3)   A sign permit is required for each subdivision or new development
sign erected in accordance with these procedures.
      (4)   Permits for the signs shall be issued for a period of one year or
to completion of the project, whichever occurs first.  A second permit allowing
an additional one year may be granted by the Town Administrator upon payment of
a renewal fee equal to the original permit fee and conformance with the
following requirements.
         (a)   A substantial portion of the development is not completed.
         (b)   If the development has building activity in progress.
         (c)   If the sign is relocated to portion of the development which is
not offensive to the completed portion of the development.
         (d)   These signs shall not exceed 15 feet in height and shall be no
larger than 150 square feet in size.
         (e)   The signs shall be located at least 25 feet behind the curb of
the street and shall not be in violation of any visibility triangle.
         (f)   On larger vacant tracts where more than one project or
development may be advertised, no two signs may be closer than 200 feet.
   (E)   Trade construction signs.
      (1)   Trade construction signs may be approved at the discretion of the
Town Administrator to advertise the various construction trades on any
construction site.
      (2)   Trade construction signs must be removed prior to the final
inspection of the building or structure.
   (F)   Political signs.
      (1)   Temporary, unlighted, political signs (including portable or
trailer signs) supporting an announced candidate, a party or an issue shall be
allowed in any district without a sign permit.
      (2)   Political signs shall not be located on any utility, light, traffic
signal, or sign post.
      (3)   Political signs are permitted for a period of 30 days prior to
local or county elections, 60 days prior to a state election, and 90 days prior
to a national election.  All political signs shall be removed no later than
seven days after the election or after the termination of candidacy, whichever
is first.
      (4)   In “R” Districts, political signs shall not have a height of more
than three feet above grade.  In other districts, the height shall not exceed
six feet above grade.
      (5)   In “R”Districts, political signs shall not exceed five square feet.
      (6)   In all zoning districts, political signs shall not be located to
cause a safety or traffic hazard.
   (G)   Temporary civic signs.
      (1)   Temporary signs advertising public school or religious events may
be erected or placed on their property after ordaining a permit from the
Building Department.  The permit will be at no cost.  A maximum of two permits
may be issued at any one time.
      (2)   Temporary signs advertising public school, civic or religious
events of public school, civic or religious organizations may be placed on any
private property with the permission of the owner.  The off-site signs are
required to be permitted.
      (3)   Signs announcing civic items of wide-spread community interest may
be erected on public property or right-of-way with special permission of the
City Council.  The signs shall be located so as not to present a safety or
traffic hazard.
   (H)   Garage sale signs.
      (1)   Temporary, unlighted signs announcing the holding of a sale of
household possessions at a place of residence shall be allowed in any zoning
district without a permit.
      (2)   Garage sale signs shall be located on private property only. 
Garage sale signs shall not be permitted on any public property or right-of-
way, nor on any utility light, traffic signal, or sign post.
      (3)   Sign size shall not exceed six square feet.
      (4)   Signs shall not be posted more than five days prior to the
beginning of the sale and shall be removed within 24 hours following the end of
the sale.
(Ord. 174, passed 9-14-1995; Ord. 385, passed 8-17-2014)
§ 151.055  DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The construction of all signs shall comply with the structural
requirements of the current edition of the International Conference of Building
Officials codes as adopted by the town.  Structural design shall be by a
professional engineer registered by the State of Texas.
   (B)   The design of sign supports and structure shall be compatible with and
in harmony with the surrounding buildings and structures.
(Ord. 174, passed 9-14-1995)
§ 151.056  OBNOXIOUS SIGNS EXPLOITING SEX.
   (A)   Visual depiction of sexual areas of human form prohibited.  No sign or
signs as defined in this chapter, to include any temporary sign, which in whole
or in part, depicts the human form in such a manner that areas of the buttocks,
or the genitals, or the pubic area, or any portion of the female breast below
the top of the nipple, are depicted as not covered with opaque clothing shall
be erected, maintained, or placed upon or adjacent to the outside of any
building where it is visible from the public street or from adjacent buildings
or premises.  Any sign which is in violation of this section is declared a
public nuisance.
   (B)   Abatement.
      (1)   Any temporary sign, or signs in violation of this subchapter shall
be abated within 24 hours after notice has been given in writing to abate the
sign or signs.  Any sign which involves letters placed on a marquee is
considered a temporary sign for purposes of this section.
      (2)   Any sign or signs in violation of this subchapter which can be
covered or painted over in such a manner so the sign will comply with this
section and which does not require removal or mechanical or electrical
alterations, the whole or part of the sign shall be covered or painted within
24 hours after written notice has been given to abate the sign or signs.
      (3)   Signs in violation of this subchapter which require mechanical or
electrical alteration of all or part of the sign or require the removal of
parts or all of the sign in order to comply with this subchapter shall be
altered or removed within seven days after written notice to abate the sign or
signs.
   (C)   Notice to abate.
      (1)   The Town Administrator, Police Department personnel, or one of
their designees are authorized to prepare and deliver notice to abate any sign
or signs in violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   Notice is deemed to be served for the purpose of this subchapter,
if delivered to any person who is the owner or lessee of the premises on which
the sign or signs are located or to any officer of any corporation or any
partner of a partnership which is operating a business on the premises on which
the sign or signs are located which violates this subchapter and which is
responsible for the sign or signs in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 174, passed 9-14-1995; Ord. 385, passed 8-17-2014)
§ 151.057  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If the Town Administrator or other person he or she may appoint shall
find that any permanent sign or other advertising structure regulated herein is
unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has been constructed or
erected or is being maintained in violation of the approved sign permit or
provisions of this subchapter, the permittee or owner thereof shall be given
written notice of the violation.
   (B)   If the permittee or owner fails to remove or abate the structure so as
to comply with the standards herein set forth within ten days after the notice,
the sign or advertising structure may be removed or altered to comply by the
Town of Lakeside at the expense of the permittee and/or the owner of the
property upon which it located.
   (C)   The Town Administrator shall refuse to issue any subsequent building,
electrical, plumbing, or mechanical permits for the property on which the
offending sign was located if any owner or permittee shall refuse to pay the
costs so assessed.
   (D)   The Town Administrator may cause any sign or other advertising
structure which is in immediate peril to persons or property to be removed by
giving notice to the owner or permittee at least 24 hours in advance.
   (E)   The Town Administrator or other persons he or she may appoint may
cause any illegal temporary sign to be removed within 24 hours.
(Ord. 174, passed 9-14-1995; Ord. 385, passed 8-17-2014)
§ 151.058  ABATEMENT OF NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Time period.  A period of five years subsequent to the effective date
of this chapter is hereby established for the abatement of signs legally
existing prior to the date but the signs which have become nonconforming under
the terms of this subchapter or previous ordinances adopted since the effective
date noted.  Nothing contained within this provision shall apply to signs
illegally erected.  The illegally erected signs are subject to immediate
abatement.
   (B)   Wall signs.  Nonconforming painted wall signs are subject, in addition
to the abatement procedures set forth, to immediate abatement when the business
occupying the premises changes to another business or different owner
necessitating repainting of the sign.
   (C)   Abatement periods established herein are subject to appeal before the
Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 174, passed 9-14-1995)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
   
152.01   Findings of fact
   
152.02   Statement of purpose
   
152.03   Methods of reducing flood losses
   
152.04   Definitions
   
152.05   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.06   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.07   Establishment of development permit
   
152.08   Compliance
   
152.09   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.10   Interpretation
   
152.11   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.20   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.21   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.22   Permit procedures
   
152.23   Variance procedures
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.30   General standards
   
152.31   Specific standards
   
152.32   Standards for subdivision proposals
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision flood regulations, see §§
153.160 through
153.168
FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
§ 152.01  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of Lakeside are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.02  STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Insure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.03  METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities, which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development, which may
increase flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING.  Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and
deposition; and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX.  A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE.  A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD.  The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on
a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% chance or greater
annual chance of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and where velocity flow may be evident.  The flooding is
characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.  The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM).  After
detailed rate-making has been completed in preparation for publication of the
FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/
A1-30, AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE, or V.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE).  The elevation shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Map (FIRM) and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Zones
A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation
resulting from the flood that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that
level in any given year; also called the BASE FLOOD.
   BASEMENT.  Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL.  A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE.  An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING.  For insurance purposes, a non-basement building which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION.  For the purposes of determining rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the
FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date.  EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.  An examination, evaluation and determination of
flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or
an examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM).  An official map of a community, issued by
the Administrator, where the boundaries of the flood, mudslide (i.e., mudflow)
related erosion areas having special hazards have been designated as Zones A,
M, and/or E.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of
special flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS).  See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA.  Any land area susceptible to being
inundated by water from any source (see FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.  The operation of an overall program of corrective
and preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control works, and floodplain
management regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.  Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power.  The term describes the
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM.  Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been
constructed specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of
the areas within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the  extent
of the depths of associated flooding.  The system typically includes hurricane
tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees, or dikes.  These specialized flood
modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering
standards.
   FLOOD PROOFING.  Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY.  See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE.  A use which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water.  The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE.  The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE.  Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE.  A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM.  A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement).  An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.  The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL.  For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  For the purpose of determining insurance rates,
structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after the
effective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is
later, and includes any subsequent improvements to the structures.  For
floodplain management purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the
start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain
management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
improvements to the structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
   RIVERINE.  Relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream,  brook, etc.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  (For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, being 16 U.S.C. §§ 3501
et seq. (Pub. L. No. 97-348)), includes substantial improvement and means the
date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.  The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site,
such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the
placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.  Permanent construction does
not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and filling; nor does
it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include
excavation for basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the erection of
temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of
accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or
not part of the main structure.  For a substantial improvement, the actual
start of construction means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor,
or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects
the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE.  For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed
building, including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above
ground, as well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE.  Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before start of construction of the
improvement.  This includes structures which have incurred substantial damage,
regardless of the actual repair work performed.  The term does not, however,
include either:
      (1)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary conditions; or
      (2)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see Section 60.6 of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION.  The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations.  A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until the time as that documentation
is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION.  The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.05  LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard with the
jurisdiction of Lakeside.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.06  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
"The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Tarrant County, Texas And Incorporated
Areas," dated September 25, 2009, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
dated September 25, 2009, and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.07  ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.08  COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.09  ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing
easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.10  INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.11  WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the community or any official or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.20  DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Town Administrator or designee is hereby appointed the Floodplain
Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and
other appropriate sections of 44 C.F.R. (Emergency Management and Assistance -
National Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain
management.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.21  DUTIES & RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding.
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter.
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334) from which prior approval is required.
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the state
coordinating agency which is the Texas Water Development Board (TWDB) and also
the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ), prior to any alteration
or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained.
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
152.06, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of  §§
152.30 through 150.32.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.22  PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer that the
nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing criteria of
§
152.31(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development;
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
152.21(A).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.23  VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Council shall hear and render judgment on requests for
variances from the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Council shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the City Council
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction. Any such
appeal to a Court shall be filed within 30 days from the date that the City
Council makes its decision in open forum. If no appeal is taken in that time,
then the right to appeal shall be waived and forfeited.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
152.22(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-
half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the City Council may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter and §
152.03.
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances:
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met,
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.30  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements:
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy;
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding;
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters; and
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.31  SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
152.06,
152.21(H) or
152.32(C), the following provisions are required:
   (A)    Residential construction.  New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including
basement), elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division as proposed
in §
152.22(A)(1), is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction.  New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to two feet
above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division.  A record of such certification which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures. New construction and substantial improvements, with fully
enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of
vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria:
      (1)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net area
of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject
to flooding shall be provided.
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade.
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)    Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community's FIRM(but only if allowed by applicable zoning regulations and
ordinances) shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood
damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement.
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable
state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Assuming that zoning regulations and ordinances allow for same,
require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved
within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community's FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision,
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision,
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision, or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated to two feet above the base flood elevation and be
securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Assuming zoning regulations and ordinances allow for same, require
that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved on sites in an
existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30, AH and AE on
the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of this  division
be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is at two feet above
the base flood elevation, or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.32  STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
152.02 and
152.03.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet Floodplain
Development Permit requirements of §§
152.07,
152.22 and
152.30 through
152.32.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
152.06 or
152.21(H).
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated by a detailed engineering
study for all Zone A areas, within 100 feet of the contour lines of Zone A
areas, and other streams not mapped by FEMA, as indicated on the community's
FIRM.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted, or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of this chapter
by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall
constitute a misdemeanor. Any person who violates this court order or fails to
comply with any of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
more than $2,000 for each violation, and in addition shall pay all costs and
expenses involved in the case. Each day a violation occurs is a separate
offense. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Town of Lakeside from
taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any
violation.
(Ord. 302, passed 9-10-2009)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Plat required
   
153.004   Policy
   
153.005   Applicability; intent
   
153.006   Impact of subdivision regulations
   
153.007   Official map
   
153.008   Conformity with applicable rules and regulations
   
153.009   Amendments
Definitions
   
153.020   Rules of interpretation
   
153.021   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.030   Adoption of rules, regulations, standards and specifications
   
153.031   Conflicts with public and private provisions
   
153.032   Utility connections; final plat approval required
   
153.033   Enforcement of regulations
   
153.034   Certificate of noncompliance
   
153.035   Platting required for permit requests; exception
   
153.036   Development and inspection fees
   
153.037   Engineering consultant’s fees
Vacating Plats; Replats; Amending Plats; Minor Plats
   
153.050   Vacation of plat
   
153.051   Replatting without vacating existing plat
   
153.052   Amending plats
   
153.053   Minor plats
   
153.054   Administrative approval
   
153.055   Fees
Preliminary Plats
   
153.070   Preliminary conference
   
153.071   Preparation
   
153.072   Deadline for filing copies
   
153.073   Filing fees
   
153.074   Form and content
   
153.075   Processing
Final Plats
   
153.090   Form and content
   
153.091   Processing
Standards and Specifications
   
153.100   Generally
   
153.101   Conformity with Comprehensive Master Plan
   
153.102   Provision for future subdivisions
   
153.103   Reserve strips prohibited
   
153.104   Streets
   
153.105   Alleys
   
153.106   Utility easements
   
153.107   Sidewalks
   
153.108   Water installation
   
153.109   Sewers
   
153.110   Utility lines
   
153.111   Monuments
   
153.112   Drainage
   
153.113   Block length
   
153.114   Crosswalks
   
153.115   Lots
Performance Guarantees
   
153.125   Construction prior to filing of plat
   
153.126   Construction after filing of plat
Water and Sewer Main Extensions
   
153.135   Purpose
   
153.136   Criteria
   
153.137   Engineering requirements
   
153.138   Reimbursement
Installation Costs
   
153.145   Generally
   
153.146   Water and sewer system
   
153.147   Street and drainage facilities
   
153.148   Developer agreement
   
153.149   Development fees payable to the town
   
153.150   Procedure
   
153.151   Evaluated prices
   
153.152   Developer payments
   
153.153   Guarantee of performance
Flood Hazard Areas
   
153.160   Flood hazard areas generally
   
153.161   Purpose
   
153.162   Applicability
   
153.163   Warning; disclaimer of liability
   
153.164   Land suitability
   
153.165   Building site improvements
   
153.166   Drainage facilities
   
153.167   Sanitary sewer facilities
   
153.168   Water facilities
Variances
   
153.180   Conditions for authorizing a variance
   
153.181   Findings in official minutes
   
153.182   Streets in extraterritorial jurisdiction
Additional Definitions, Regulations and Fees
   
153.190   Adoption of additional subdivision definitions, regulations, and fees
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:  Additional subdivision definitions, regulations and fees
Cross-references:
   Flood Damage Prevention, see
Ch. 152
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 151
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001  AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is adopted under the authority of the Constitution and laws of
the State of Texas, including particularly Chapter 212 of the Tex. Local
Government Code.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.002  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly, safe and
healthful development of the area within the corporate limits of the Town of
Lakeside and within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Lakeside,
and to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the community.
Whenever the words “town” or “city” are used, they shall mean the Town of
Lakeside. The regulations contained herein are adopted to promote and encourage
the development of high quality subdivisions by establishing standards for the
provision of adequate light, air, open space, storm water drainage,
transportation, public utilities, and suitable building lots. Through the
application of these subdivision regulations, the interests of the public, as
well as those of public and private parties, both present and future, having
interests in property affected by these regulations, are protected by
establishing fair and rational procedures for developing land.
   (B)   These regulations are designed and intended to achieve the following
purposes and shall be administered so as to:
      (1)   Promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the town;
and
      (2)   Promote the orderly, safe and healthful development of the town;
and
      (3)   Provide orderly policies and procedures to guide development of the
town; and
      (4)   Provide for the establishment of an equitable and expeditious
review of plats; and
      (5)   Realistically and harmoniously relate new development of proximate
tracts; and
      (6)   Provide for establishment of minimum specifications for
construction and engineering design criteria for public infrastructure in order
to maintain land values, reduce inconveniences to residents of the area, and to
reduce unnecessary costs to the town for correction of inadequate facilities
that are designed to serve the public; and
      (7)   Provide the adequate light, air, and privacy; to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger; to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population; and to provide minimum width and depth of building
lots and building lines; and
      (8)   Protect and conserve the value of land throughout the town; and
      (9)   Provide the most beneficial circulation of traffic throughout the
town, having particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets
and highways, and pedestrian traffic movements; and to provide for the proper
location and width of streets; and
      (10)   Establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and other developments, in order to further the orderly layout and
use of land; and to ensure proper legal descriptions and documentation of
subdivided land; and
      (11)   Ensure that public facilities are available for every building
site and with sufficient capacity to serve the proposed subdivision, and to
provide public facilities for future development; and
      (12)   Provide proper utilities and services for adequate drainage, water
supply, and disposal of sanitary and industrial waste; and
      (13)   Assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; and to encourage the
wise use and management of natural resources throughout the town in order to
preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community; and
      (14)   Preserve the topography of the town and to ensure appropriate
development with regard to natural features; and
      (15)   Furnish adequate and convenient sites, for schools, parks and open
spaces, playgrounds, and other community services, respecting topography and
existing vegetation so that the natural beauty of the land shall be preserved;
and
      (16)   Assure that new development adequately and fairly participates in
the dedication and construction of public improvements and infrastructure that
are necessitated by or attributable to the development or that provide value or
benefit that makes the development feasible; and
      (17)   Address other needs necessary for ensuring the creation and
continuance of a healthy, attractive, safe and efficient community that
provides for the conservation, enhancement and protection of its human and
natural resources.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.003  PLAT REQUIRED.
   Any person owning a tract of land located within the corporate limits or
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Town of Lakeside who hereafter divides the
tract into two or more parts to lay out a subdivision, to lay out a building
lot, or to lay out streets, alleys, squares, parks, or other parts of the tract
intended to be dedicated to public use, or for the use of purchasers or owners
of lots fronting on or adjacent to the streets, alleys, squares, parks, or
other parts for purposes of development shall have a plat of the subdivision
prepared and approved according to these subdivision regulations. A division of
a tract includes a division regardless of whether it is made by using a metes
and bounds description in a deed of conveyance or in a contract for a deed, by
using a contract of sale or other executory contract to convey, or by using any
other method for purpose of development. A division of land under these
regulations does not include a division of land into parts greater than five
acres, where each part has access and no public improvement is being dedicated.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.004  POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the town to consider the
subdivision and development of land as subject to the control of the town, in
order to carry out the purpose of the Comprehensive Plan, and to promote the
orderly, planned, efficient and economical development of the town.
Furthermore, it is the policy of the town that:
   (A)   Land shall not be subdivided or otherwise developed until proper
provision has been made for drainage, water, sewer, transportation and other
facilities required by these subdivision regulations; and
   (B)   All public and private facilities and improvements shall be of at
least a minimum capacity necessary to adequately serve the development and
shall conform to and be properly related to the Comprehensive Plan of the town
and the Design Manual; and
   (C)   These subdivision regulations shall supplement, and facilitate the
enforcement of, provisions and standards contained in the zoning ordinance and
building codes adopted by the town.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.005  APPLICABILITY; INTENT.
   (A)   These subdivision regulations shall apply to all tracts of land within
the corporate limits of town and its extraterritorial jurisdiction. Wherever
this chapter refers to “town” or the “Town of Lakeside” it shall also be deemed
to refer to and shall apply to the town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction. This
chapter is designed, intended and is to be administered in a manner to:
      (1)   Not contravene the provisions of the zoning ordinance of the town;
      (2)   Implement the Master Land Use Plan, the Master Water and Sewer
Plans, the Master Drainage Plan, the Master Thoroughfare Plan, and any other
elements of the town’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   These subdivision regulations govern the subdivision and platting of
land and are intended to require the creation of usable sites that meet minimum
standards designed to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the town. Separate and distinct regulations have been adopted by
the town to govern other aspects of development, such as land use, building
construction, and other health, safety and welfare issues such as the
prohibition of nuisances. Although these other ordinances are designed to
complement these subdivision regulations and may incorporate similar goals, and
objectives, and use similar means to accomplish these goals and objectives,
they are separate and distinct from these subdivision regulations. Applications
made under these subdivision regulations for the approval of subdivision or
development sites are not intended to negate the need to make separate
applications for different projects or aspects of development.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.006  IMPACT OF SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   It is the intent and policy of these subdivision regulations that any
requirement imposed hereunder as a condition of development be fair and
equitable to each development and be based upon the impact the proposed
development is projected to have on public facilities and services which are
necessitated by the proposed development or anticipated benefits derived by the
development from compliance with such conditions. Any conditions placed on
development shall be designated to assure the orderly growth of the community
in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan. Any developer/owner who believes
that proposed conditions of development will work a hardship or are in excess
of the impacts caused or benefits derived by the development shall, prior to
approval of any plat, identify in writing to the Town Administrator or his or
her designee any such excessive conditions which the developer/owner believes
are being improperly or unfairly imposed, along with any engineering or other
evidence supporting the developer position. In addition, the developer shall
apply for a variance from such proposed conditions in accordance with the
procedures set forth in these subdivision regulations. The failure to submit a
timely request for relief under these procedures shall be deemed to be the
developer’s consent to the conditions imposed.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.007  OFFICIAL MAP.
   The Town Secretary shall maintain an official town map which shall indicate
the location of all subdivisions, lots and street right-of-ways. Subdivision
plats hereafter approved shall be placed on the official map in a timely order.
The official town map shall include the names of all streets and street suffix
classifications. Where street name inconsistencies exist from one subdivision
to another, the Town Administrator shall place on the official town map the
generally accepted street name, its proper spelling, and suffix classification.
The Town Administrator shall assign street address ranges for each block and
coordinate these with the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.008  CONFORMITY WITH APPLICABLE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   These subdivision regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the development of a subdivision or lot within the corporate limits of the
town. In addition to the requirements established herein, all plats shall be in
conformity with the following:
   (A)   All applicable state statutory provisions contained in Chapter 212,
Tex. Local Government Code.
   (B)   The zoning ordinance, building and housing codes, and other applicable
laws of the town.
   (C)   Any official plans adopted by the town under Chapter 213, Tex. Local
Government Code, including but not limited to the Official Comprehensive Plan,
Capital Improvements Program of the towny, Parks Plan, Master Thoroughfare
Plan, and any other official plan adopted by the City Council which has an
effect on the development of property in the town.
   (D)   Any regulations of the town health official and county health
departments and appropriate state agencies.
   (E)   Any applicable regulations of the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality or any other agency related to the installation of water, sewer, or
other facilities.
   (F)   The regulations of the Texas Department of Transportation, when the
subdivision, or any lot contained therein, abuts a state maintained highway.
   (G)   The standards, codes and regulations adopted for administration by the
Building Official.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.009  AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to these subdivision regulations may be made by the City Council
upon recommendation by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and
Zoning Commission and the City Council shall conduct public hearings on all
proposed amendments to these regulations. Amending actions may be initiated in
one of the following manners:
   (A)   Upon a majority vote of the City Council.
   (B)   Upon a majority vote of the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (C)   Upon written request from the Town Administrator.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.020  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms, phrases, words, and their
derivations set forth in this chapter shall have the meaning ascribed to them
in this subchapter. The word SHALL is always mandatory; the word MAY is merely
discretionary. Any office referred to by title means the person employed or
appointed by the town in that position, or his or her duly authorized
representative. Definitions not expressly prescribed herein are to be construed
in accordance with customary usage in municipal planning and engineering
practices.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.021  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building excluding garages, having a use
customarily incidental to the main structure. A structure housing an accessory
use is considered part of the main structure and not an ACCESSORY BUILDING when
it has part of a wall in common with the main structure or is under an
extension of the main roof and designated as part of the main structure.
   ACREAGE.
      (1)   GROSS. The acreage included within the boundary of a plat.
      (2)   NET. The acreage included within the boundary line of a particular
subdivision, tract, parcel, lot, etc., but excluding all public right-of-ways
(abbreviated R.O.W.).
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way less in size than a street, designed for the
special accommodation of the property it reaches, and not intended for general
travel or primary access.
   APPLICANT. The owner or the authorized representative of land proposed to be
subdivided or platted.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and a public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shore lines of
waterways, or boundary lines of municipalities.
   BOND. Any form of security including cash deposit, surety bonds, collateral,
property, or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the
City Council.
   BUILD. To erect, convert, enlarge, reconstruct, restore, or alter a building
or structure.
   BUILDING. Any structure which is built for the support, shelter or enclosure
of persons, animals, chattels, or moveable property of any kind.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line within a property defining the minimum
horizontal distance between a building and the adjacent street line.
   CENTRAL SEWER SYSTEM. The collection of sewage from substantially all lots
in the subdivision for disposal at a centrally located site.
   CITY. The Town of Lakeside, Texas.
   COMMISSION. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the town.
   COMMON AREA. Private lots owned and maintained by the property owners’
association.
   COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN. Those plans and policies adopted by the City
Council as a guide to the systematic physical development of the town.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the Town of Lakeside.
   COUNTY PLAT RECORDS. The plat records of Tarrant County, Texas.
   CROSSWALK WAY. A public right-of-way, 12 feet or more in width between
property lines, which provides for pedestrian circulation.
   DENSITY.
      (1)   GROSS. The number of dwelling units per gross acre.
      (2)   NET. The number of dwelling units per net acre.
   DESIGN CRITERIA MANUAL. A document approved by the City Council which
described the construction criteria used by the Town of Lakeside.
   DEVELOPER. The authorized representative of or the owner of land proposed to
be subdivided or developed.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any activity that requires the submission of a subdivision
plat, development plan or the securing of a building permit.
   EASEMENT. A right granted for the purposes of limited public or semi-public
use across, over, or under private land.
      (1)   COMMON ACCESS. An easement which is intended to provide shared
drives for commercial, industrial and high-density residential developments.
These easements are privately owned and maintained by the adjacent lot owners.
      (2)   DRAINAGE. (Abbreviated D.E., typically D.U.E. when combined with
utility easements.) A delineated portion of land set aside for the overland or
underground transfer of storm water. This area shall not have any permanent
structures, fences, or other obstacles hindering the safe transfer of water
through the easement.
      (3)   EMERGENCY ACCESS. An easement for the purpose of ingress, egress,
access and passage to and across private property for police, fire and other
public safety and governmental vehicles and personnel. This easement is
privately owned and maintained by the owners of the land encumbered by the
easement and typically used in conjunction with private streets.
      (4)   PEDESTRIAN ACCESS. A public easement for the purpose of pedestrian
ingress and egress and passage to and across private property. The owners of
the land encumbered by the easement shall maintain the property.
      (5)   PRIVATE ACCESS. An agreement between two parties for the purpose of
limited private access across, over, or under private land.
      (6)   PUBLIC LANDSCAPE. (Abbreviated P.L.E.) A public easement typically
located adjacent to thoroughfare street R.O.W. for the purpose of planting
trees or other landscape plants. Maintenance of the easement shall be the
responsibility of the land owner; however, the town has the right to maintain,
through pruning, replacement or other means, any plantings placed in the
easement.
      (7)   UTILITY EASEMENT. An easement generally used for the installation,
maintenance and operation of water, sewer, electric, telephone, cable, gas and
other similar utilities. No permanent structures other than fences shall be
allowed in these easements.
   ENGINEER. Any person who has been licensed and registered by the Texas State
Board of Registration for Professional Engineers to engage in the practice of
civil engineering.
   ESCROW. Money placed in an escrow account in the possession or the town to
accomplish the purpose set out in this chapter, including, but not limited to
the following: purchase of right-of-way, design and construction of drainage
and sanitary sewer facilities, water, curb, gutter and pavement.
   EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION (ETJ). The area of land lying outside and
adjacent to the corporate limits of the Town of Lakeside over which the Town of
Lakeside has legal control as set forth in Chapter 42 of the Local Government
Code [within one mile of the corporate limits].
   F.E.M.A. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream level that results in inundation of areas
not ordinarily covered by water.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (F.H.B.M.). An official map of the community
issued by the Federal Insurance Administration, where special flood hazard
areas have been designated.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (F.I.R.M.). An official community map showing
special flood hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the
community as issued by the Federal Insurance Administration.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official Federal Insurance Administration report
containing profiles, the water surface elevation of the base flood and the
flood hazard boundary map.
   FLOODFRINGE. The area located within the floodplain and outside of the
floodway.
   FLOODPLAIN. An area identified by F.E.M.A. as possibly being flood-prone or
below the immediate floodline (100-year floodplain).
   FLOODWAY. The area regulated by federal, state, or local requirements to
provide for the discharge for the base flow, so that the cumulative increase in
water surface elevation is no more than a designated amount within the 100-year
floodplain. A river, channel, or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively
increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height. Normally,
the FLOODWAY will include the stream channel and that portion of the adjacent
land areas required to pass the base flood (100-year flood) discharge without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation at any point more than one
foot above that of the pre-floodway condition, including those designated on
the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FRONTAGE. Land contiguous to, and having access to a dedicated public
street.
   LOT. An undivided tract or parcel of land having frontage on a public street
or approved private street and which is, or in the future may be offered for
sale, conveyance, transfer or improvement, which is designated as a distinct
and separate tract, and which is identified by a tract or lot number or symbol
in a duly approved plat which has been properly filed of record.
   MARKER. A permanent iron rod generally used on lot corners, points of
curvature and tangency.
   MONUMENT. A permanent concrete survey monument generally used on subdivision
property corners adjacent to public right-of-way.
   OWNER. Any person having legal title to the subject property. The term OWNER
shall also include the OWNER’S authorized agent or representative.
   PAVEMENT WIDTH. The portion of a street available for vehicular traffic
where curbs are laid. PAVEMENT WIDTH is the portion between the face of curbs.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, organization,
association or other entity.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development concept which allows flexibility in
accordance with the zoning ordinance.
   PLAT. The schematic representation of the division of land in accordance
with this chapter.
      (1)   AMENDING. A plat which meets the procedures and requirements as set
forth in Chapter 212 of the Tex. Local Government Code.
      (2)   FINAL. A plat which substantially conforms to the approved
preliminary plat, unless otherwise specified in this chapter, and contains all
or a portion of the property within the approved preliminary plat. A FINAL PLAT
as referenced in this chapter may also refer to a plat revision, replat,
amending plat or minor plat. Only FINAL PLATS may be filed of record in the
county plat records.
      (3)   MINOR. A plat which contains four or fewer lots, and is less than
three acres in size, fronting on an existing street and not requiring the
creation of any new street or the extension of municipal facilities.
      (4)   PRELIMINARY. The initial plat or working draft map or plan of a
proposed development showing the general layout of streets, blocks and lots,
utility systems and drainage submitted for approval by the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
      (5)   REPLAT. A revision to a recorded plat, but does not follow the same
procedure as an amending plat.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. A water supply and distribution system owned and
operated by a municipality or public water district as opposed to a privately
owned or user owned system.
   PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR. Town staff person responsible for administering the
development provisions of this chapter.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the area and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on a particular stream. The REGULATORY FLOOD generally
occurs once approximately every 100 years as determined from an analysis of
floods on a particular stream and other streams in the same general region.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. (Abbreviated ROW.) A strip of land, other than a drainage or
utility easement, occupied or intended to be occupied by a street, crosswalk,
railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main,
sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another special use.
   STREET. A traveled roadway and public right-of-way, however designated,
which provides vehicular access to adjacent land.
      (1)   ARTERIAL. A through street designed for the movement of heavy
traffic volume intended to carry traffic from collector streets to state/county
highways.
      (2)   COLLECTOR. A street intended to move traffic from minor collector
or local streets to or toward the arterial and state/county street system.
      (3)   COUNTY SECTION. A street located within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction (ETJ) of the town, built to specifications determined by the
county and maintained by the county.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC. A street that intersects only one street and terminates
at the opposite end with a vehicular turnaround.
      (5)   DEAD-END. A street that terminates without a vehicular turnaround.
      (6)   ESTATE SECTION. Any street without concrete curb and gutter, but
not including state, county or federal highways.
      (7)   INTERNAL. Generally, any street whose entire width is contained
within a development.
      (8)   MARGINAL ACCESS. A street which is parallel to and adjacent to an
arterial street and primarily provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (9)   MINOR COLLECTOR. A street which is local in character and use, but
due to its configuration within the development, serves as a collector of local
streets; thereby, connecting them to a collector street.
      (10)   MINOR or LOCAL. A street which provides access from individual
tracts to minor collectors or collector streets.
      (11)   PERIMETER. Any street which abuts a development or one whose width
lies partly within a development and partly without.
      (12)   PRIVATE. A street which is similar to public streets and roadways
except that ownership and maintenance is privately used and retained and is not
dedicated to the public for general use and maintenance.
      (13)   STATE/COUNTY. State Highway 199, F.M. 1886 or other state or
county designated streets.
   SUBDIVISION. A division of any tract of land situated within the corporate
limits, or extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town into two or more parts for
the purpose of laying out a subdivision of any tract of land or an addition to
the town, or laying out suburban lots or building lots, or any lots, or
streets, alleys, parks or other portions intended for public use or the use of
purchasers or owners of lots fronting thereon or adjacent thereto. SUBDIVISION
includes resubdivision, but it does not include the division of land into
parcels or tracts of greater than five acres and not involving the dedication
of any new street, alley or easement of access or public improvements. The use
of the term SUBDIVISION in this chapter may also refer to a single lot that is
proposed to be developed.
   SURVEYOR. Any person registered as a registered public surveyor or licensed
state land surveyor by the Texas Board of Land Surveying.
   TOWN. The Town of Lakeside, Texas.
   TOWN ADMINISTRATOR. The chief administrative officer of the town appointed
by the City Council, or his or her designee.
   TOWN ENGINEER. Town staff person responsible for administering the
engineering design requirements of this chapter.
   TOWN PLANNER.  Town staff person responsible for administering the planning
and zoning processes and ordinances requirements, or his or her designee.
   TxDOT. Texas Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.030  ADOPTION OF RULES, REGULATIONS, STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The City Council shall, through adoption of ordinances, promulgate rules,
regulations, standards and specifications for the construction (as set forth in
the Design Criteria Manual), installation, design, location and arrangement of
streets, curbs, street lights, street signs, alleys, utility layouts, utility
easements, gates for utility easements, sidewalks, water supply and water
distribution, fire hydrants, sewage disposal systems, septic tanks, water
wells, monuments, criteria for drainage easement requirements, drainage
facilities, and crosswalk ways. Such ordinances shall be published and filed
with the Town Secretary at least 30 days before becoming effective. Any rules,
regulations, standards and specifications adopted pursuant to this chapter may
be amended, provided that an amendment must be published and filed with the
Town Secretary at least 30 days before it becomes effective. No such rules,
regulations, standards and specifications shall conflict with this chapter or
any other ordinances of the town. All such improvements shall be constructed,
installed, designed, located and arranged by the developer/owner in accordance
with such rules, regulations, standards and specifications.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.031  CONFLICTS WITH PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Except where indicated, these subdivision regulations are not intended
to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule, regulation,
statute, or other provision of law. Whenever the standards and specifications
in this chapter conflict with those contained in another ordinance, the most
stringent or restrictive provision shall govern.
   (B)   These regulations are not intended to abrogate any easement, deed
restriction, covenant or any other private agreement or deed restriction.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.032  UTILITY CONNECTIONS; FINAL PLAT APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   The town shall not repair, maintain, install or provide any streets or
public utility services in any development for which a final plat has not been
approved and filed for record, nor in which the standards contained or referred
to in this chapter have not been complied with in full.
   (B)   The town shall not sell or supply any water or sewage service within a
subdivision for which a final plat has not been approved or filed for record,
nor in which the standards contained or referred to in this chapter have not
been complied with in full.
   (C)   No building permit for a primary building will be issued until all
proposed public facilities have been installed and have been approved by the
town unless specifically authorized by the developer agreement after a
determination that adequate security has been provided to assure construction
of the public facilities.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.033  ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Appropriate actions may be taken to prevent a violation of these
subdivision regulations; to prevent unlawful construction; to restrain,
correct, or abate a violation; or to prevent illegal occupancy of a building
structure or premises.
   (B)   The Town Attorney shall, when directed by the City Council, institute
appropriate action in a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the
provisions of this chapter or the standards referred to in this chapter with
respect to any violation thereof which occurs within the town, within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or within any area subject to all or
a part of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Town Planner to enforce the
administrative provisions of these regulations.
   (D)   It shall be the responsibility of the Director of Public Works to
enforce the development provisions of these regulations.
   (E)   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by the use of a metes
and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer, or lease with the
intent of evading these regulations by creating a building lot shall be
considered a violation of this chapter. All such subdivisions and plats shall
be subject to all of the requirements contained in these subdivision
regulations.
   (F)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of a building
or structure on a lot  subdivided or sold in violation of the provisions of
these subdivision regulations.
   (G)   The Town Planner shall be responsible for the interpretation of these
subdivision regulations. Where a developer or applicant disagrees with the
interpretation of the Town Planner, he or she may appeal such interpretation to
the Planning and Zoning Commission for a final determination. Where a
determination of these regulations is in conflict with a request by a
developer/owner, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall rule and decide on
these questions.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.034  CERTIFICATE OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   If any development exists for which a final plat has not been approved or
for which the standards contained or referred to herein have not been complied
with in full, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall pass a resolution
reciting the fact of such noncompliance or failure to secure final plat
approval, and reciting the fact that the provisions of this subchapter will
apply to the development and the lots therein, and the Town Secretary shall,
when directed by the Planning and Zoning Commission, cause a certified copy of
such resolution under the corporate seal of the town to be filed in the deed
records of the county or counties in which such development or part thereof
lies. If full compliance and final plat approval are secured after the filing
of such resolution, the Town Secretary shall forthwith file an instrument in
the deed records of such county or counties stating that §
153.034 no longer applies.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.035  PLATTING REQUIRED FOR PERMIT REQUESTS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Platting shall be required for all building permit requests for new
buildings on unplatted real property except as follows:
      (1)   Residentially developed property not exceeding five acres in size
may obtain a building permit for additions to the main structure if such
addition does not exceed 50% of the main structure;
      (2)   Adding an accessory building or structure on an unplatted
residentially developed lot provided a primary structure exists on the
unplatted lot; or
      (3)   Restoring any residential building or structure on an unplatted
residentially developed lot, destroyed by fire, explosion, or any other
casualty or an Act of God where the extent of the destruction is not more than
50% of the current value of the structure.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.036  DEVELOPMENT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the town’s development
and inspection fees for developments located inside the town and within its
extraterritorial jurisdiction shall be 4% of the construction costs of the
water, sewer, street and drainage facilities required by this chapter, as
determined by the Town Administrator. Payment shall be made as the construction
is incurred or within ten days thereof.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.037  ENGINEERING CONSULTANT’S FEES.
   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the town shall collect
from all applicants for plat approval and commercial building permits, prior to
final approval of any such plat and/or prior to the issuance of any such
building permit, all expenses incurred by the town in connection with the
review of such plans by the engineering consultants of the town.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
VACATING PLATS; REPLATS; AMENDING PLATS; MINOR PLATS
§ 153.050  VACATION OF PLAT.
   The proprietors of the tract covered by a plat may vacate the plat at any
time before any lot in the plat is sold. The plat is vacated when a signed,
acknowledged instrument declaring the plat vacated is approved and recorded in
the manner prescribed for the original plat. If lots in the plat have been
sold, the plat, or any part of the plat, may be vacated on the application of
all the owners of lots in the plat, with approval obtained in the manner
prescribed for the original plat. The County Clerk shall write legibly on the
vacated plat the word “Vacated” and shall enter on the plat a reference to the
volume and page at which the vacating instrument is recorded. On the execution
and recording of the vacating instrument, the vacated plat has no effect.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.051  REPLATTING WITHOUT VACATING EXISTING PLAT.
   (A)   A replat of a subdivision or part of a subdivision may be recorded and
is controlling over the preceding plat without vacation of that plat if the
replat:
      (1)   Is signed and acknowledged by only the owners of the property being
replatted; and
      (2)   Is approved, after a public hearing on the matter at which parties
in interest and citizens have an opportunity to be heard, by the Commission;
and
      (3)   Does not attempt to amend or remove any covenants or restrictions.
   (B)   In addition to compliance with §§
153.030 through
153.037, a replat without vacation of the preceding plat must conform to the
requirements of this section if:
      (1)   During the preceding five years, any of the area to be replatted
was limited by an interim or permanent zoning classification to residential use
for not more than two residential units per lot; or
      (2)   Any lot in the preceding plat was limited by deed restrictions to
residential use for not more than two residential units per lot.
   (C)   Notice or the hearing before the Commission shall be given before
fifteenth day before the date of the hearing by:
      (1)   Publication in an official newspaper or a newspaper of general
circulation in the county in which the municipality is located; and
      (2)   By written notice, with a copy of §§
153.030 through
153.037 attached, forwarded to the owners of property in the original
subdivision (as indicated on the most recently approved municipal tax roll or
in the case of a subdivision within the extraterritorial jurisdiction, the most
recently approved county tax roll) within 200 feet of the property upon which
the replat is requested. The written notice may be delivered by depositing the
notice, properly addressed with postage prepaid, in a post office or postal
depository within the boundaries of the town.
      (3)   If the proposed replat is protested in accordance with this
section, the proposed replat must receive, in order to be approved, the
affirmative vote of at least three-fourths of all members of the Commission.
For a legal protest, written instruments signed by the owners of at least 20%
of the area of the lots or land immediately adjoining the area covered by the
proposed replat and extending 200 feet from that area, but within the original
subdivision, must be filed with the Commission prior to the close of the public
hearing.
      (4)   In computing the percentage of land area under this section, the
area of streets and alleys shall be included.
      (5)   Compliance with divisions (C)(3) and (4) above is not required for
approval of a replat of part of a preceding plat if the area to be replatted
was designated or reserved for a use other than single or duplex family
residential use by notation on the last legally recorded plat or in legally
recorded restrictions applicable to the plat.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.052  AMENDING PLATS.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, the Town Administrator
is authorized to approve and issue an amending plat which is signed by the
owner only, and which is for one or more of the purposes set forth in this
section; and such approval and issuance shall not require notice, hearing or
approval of other lot owners. This section shall apply only if the sole purpose
of the amending plat is for one or more of the following of the following
purposes:
   (A)   To correct an error in any course or distance shown on the prior plat.
   (B)   To add any course or distance that was omitted on the prior plat.
   (C)   To correct an error in the description of the real property shown on
the prior plat.
   (D)   To indicate monuments set after death, disability or retirement from
practice of the engineer or surveyor charged with responsibilities for setting
monuments.
   (E)   To show the proper location or character of any monument which has
been changed in location or character or which originally was shown at the
wrong location or incorrectly as to its character on the prior plat.
   (F)   To correct any other type of scrivener or clerical error or omission
as previously approved by the Commission or City Council; such errors and
omissions may include, but are not limited to, lot numbers, acreage, street
names, and identification of adjacent recorded plats.
   (G)   To correct an error in courses and distances of lot lines between two
adjacent lots where both lot owners join in the application for plat amendment
and neither lot is abolished, provided that such amendment does not attempt to
remove recorded covenants or restrictions and does not have a material adverse
effect on the property rights of the other owners in the plat.
   (H)   To relocate a lot line in order to cure an inadvertent encroachment of
a building or improvement on a lot line or on an easement.
   (I)   To relocate one or more lot lines between one or more adjacent lots
where the owner or owners of all such lots join in the application for the plat
amendment, provided that such amendment does not:
      (1)   Attempt to remove recorded covenants or restrictions, and
      (2)   Increase the approved number of lots.
   (J)   To make necessary changes to the prior plat to create six or fewer
lots in the subdivision or part of the subdivision covered by the prior plat
if:
      (1)   The changes do not affect applicable zoning and other regulations
of the town; and
      (2)   The changes do not attempt to amend or remove any covenants or
restrictions; and
      (3)   The area coverage by the changes is located in an area that the
City Council has approved, after a public nearing, as a residential improvement
area.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.053  MINOR PLATS.
   (A)   A developer may elect to by-pass the preliminary plat process and
apply for a final plat under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The property to be platted contains no more than four lots;
      (2)   The property to be platted contains no more than three acres of
land;
      (3)   The development does not require the extension of public utilities
or infrastructure improvements (extension of streets);
      (4)   The development is fronting on a public street; and
      (5)   The plat does not require any variances to this chapter.
   (B)   The procedure for a minor plat shall be the same as the procedure for
final plat application.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.054  ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL.
   The Town Administrator or his or her designee may approve amending plats and
minor plats pursuant to the Tex. Local Government Code, § 212.016, as amended.
The Town Administrator or his or her designee, at his or her discretion may
refer the plat to the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Town Administrator or
his or her designee shall not disapprove a plat as defined by this section, but
shall refer such plat to the Planning and Zoning Commission if he or she
recommends disapproval.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.055  FEES.
   The town shall collect the following for a proposed replat of real property
within the corporate limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town:
   (A)   A fee in accordance with the town’s adopted fee schedule; and
   (B)   A sum equal to the plat recording fee charged by the county or
counties in which plat will be filed for recordation.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
PRELIMINARY PLATS
§ 153.070  PRELIMINARY CONFERENCE.
   Prior to the official filing of a preliminary plat, the developer/owner
should consult with and provide a plan of subdivision to the Town Planner for
comments and advice on the procedures, specifications and standards required by
the town for the subdivision or development of land.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.071  PREPARATION.
   The developer/owner shall cause a preliminary plat to be prepared by a
surveyor or engineer in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.072  DEADLINE FOR FILING COPIES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the Town Planner, or his or  her
designee, shall review the submission to determine if all required elements of
the plat application have been submitted. The applicant shall be informed of
any deficiencies. Once all elements of the plat application have been
submitted, the Planner shall send a certification letter to the applicant that
the plat application is ready for review by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
The filing date of the preliminary plat shall be deemed to be the date the plat
application is certified as complete by the planner or his or her designee.
   (B)   The developer/owner shall submit two originals and 15 blue or black
line copies of the plat together with applicable filing fees and written
application at least 15 working days prior to the date at which formal
application for the preliminary plat approval is made by the Commission. The
filing date of the preliminary plat shall be deemed to be the date that the
plat application is complete.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.073  FILING FEES.
   A preliminary plat application shall be accompanied by a fee in accordance
with the town’s adopted fee schedule.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.074  FORM AND CONTENT.
   The plat shall be drawn on 24-inch by 36-inch sheets, if to be filed in
Tarrant County with a binding margin of not less than three inches on the left
side of the sheet and margins on the other three sides of not less than one
inch. The plat shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one inch. When more
than one sheet is necessary to accommodate the entire area, an index sheet
showing the entire subdivision at an appropriate scale shall be attached to the
plat.
   (A)   An approved preliminary drainage plan, approved by the Town Engineer,
is required as part of the plat application, and
   (B)   The plat shall show the following:
      (1)   Names and addresses of the developer/subdivider owner, engineer
and/or surveyor;
      (2)   Proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not have the same
spelling as or be pronounced similar to the name of any other subdivision
located within the town or within five miles of the town;
      (3)   Names of contiguous subdivisions and the owners of contiguous
parcels of unsubdivided land, and an indication of whether or not contiguous
properties are replatted;
      (4)   Description, by metes and bounds, of the subdivision;
      (5)   Primary control points or descriptions, and ties to such control
points to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, blocks and similar data shall
be referenced;
      (6)   Subdivision boundary lines, indicated by heavy lines and the
computed acreage of the subdivision;
      (7)   The exact location, dimensions, name and description of all
existing or recorded streets, alleys, reservations, easements or other public
or private right-of-ways within the subdivision, intersecting or contiguous
with its boundaries or forming such boundaries;
      (8)   The exact location, dimensions, descriptions and name of all
existing or recorded residential lots, parks, public areas, permanent
structures and other sites within or contiguous with the subdivision;
      (9)   The exact location, dimensions, description, and flow line of
existing water courses and drainage structures within the subdivision or on
contiguous tracts;
      (10)   Regulatory flood elevations and boundaries of flood-prone areas,
including floodways, if known;
      (11)   The exact location, dimensions, name and description of all
proposed public or private streets, alleys, parks and other public or private
areas, reservations, easements or other right-of-ways, blocks, lots and other
sites within the subdivision;
      (12)   A preliminary plan for on-site sewage disposal systems, including
disposal site for lands subject to flooding or sanitary sewers with grade, pipe
size, and points of discharge;
      (13)   A preliminary plan for proposed fills or other structure elevating
techniques, levees, channel modifications, seawalls, and other methods to
overcome flood or erosion-related hazards;
      (14)   Date of preparation, scale of plat and north arrow;
      (15)   Topographical information shall include contour lines on a basis
of five vertical feet in terrain with a slope of 6% or more, and on a basis of
two vertical in terrain with a slope of less than 6%;
      (16)   A number or letter to identify each lot or site and each block;
      (17)   Front building setback lines on all lots and sites; side yard
building setback lines at street intersections and crosswalk ways;
      (18)   Location of town limits line, the outer border of the town’s
extraterritorial jurisdiction, and zoning district boundaries, if they traverse
the subdivision, form part of the boundary of the subdivision, or are
contiguous to such boundary; and
      (19)   Vicinity sketch or map at a scale of not more than 100 feet to an
inch which shall show existing subdivisions, streets, easements, right-of-ways,
parks and public facilities in the vicinity, the general drainage plan and
ultimate destination of water, and possible storm sewer, water, gas, electric
and sanitary sewer connections by arrows.
      (20)   All utility companies shall sign off on the plat prior to its
submittal to the town.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.075  PROCESSING.
   (A)   The Town Planner shall check the preliminary plat as to its conformity
with the master plan, major street plan, land use plan and zoning districts set
forth or referred to in this chapter.
   (B)   Pertinent copies of the preliminary plat data shall be submitted to
the Director of Public Works who shall check the same for conformity with the
standards and specifications contained in the Town of Lakeside subdivision
ordinance or referred to in this document.
   (C)   The Town Planner shall return the preliminary plat data to the
Commission with his or her suggestions as to modifications, additions or
alterations of such plat data.
   (D)   Within 30 days after a preliminary plat application has been submitted
to the town and meeting the requirements of this chapter, the Commission shall
approve, disapprove or approve with conditions the application. A completed
application shall include all required documents set forth in this section. Any
approval with conditions shall be deemed to be a denial until and unless all of
the conditions are met.
   (E)   Approval or approval with conditions of a preliminary plat by the
Commission shall be deemed an expression of approval of the layout submitted on
the preliminary plat as a guide to the installation of streets, water, sewer
and other required improvements and utilities and to the preparation of the
final plat. Conditional approval of the preliminary plat shall not constitute
automatic approval of the final plat.
   (F)   If the preliminary plat does not meet the requirements of this
chapter, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall disapprove the plat or
approve the plat with conditions to ensure compliance with the requirements of
this chapter. If the preliminary plat is disapproved, no further action shall
be taken on the application, until and unless a new application and preliminary
plat is submitted in accordance with this chapter.
   (G)   Except for preliminary plats filed prior to the effective date of this
chapter, a preliminary plat shall become null and void within one year after
its approval unless a final plat is approved for all or a portion of the
preliminary plat within that time and is filed for record in the appropriate
county(s). The applicant, owner or developer may submit in writing, a request
to the Commission for one six-month extension of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
FINAL PLATS
§ 153.090  FORM AND CONTENT.
   (A)   The final plat and accompanying data shall substantially conform to
the preliminary plat as conditionally approved by the Commission, incorporating
any and all changes, modifications, alterations, corrections and conditions
imposed by the Commission.
   (B)   An approved drainage plan, approved by the Town’s Engineer, is
required as part of the plat application.
   (C)   The final plat shall be drawn on 24-inch by 34-inch sheets, if to be
filed in Tarrant County with a binding margin of not less than three inches on
the left side of the sheet and margins on the other three sides on not less
than one inch. The plat shall be drawn to a scale of 100 feet to one inch. When
more than one sheet is necessary to accommodate the entire area, an index sheet
showing the entire subdivision at an appropriate scale shall be attached to the
plat.
   (D)   The final plat shall be submitted in such number as is required and
shall contain all of the features required for preliminary plats and shall be
accompanied by site improvement data bearing the seal of an engineer and
detailed cost estimates.
   (E)   The Commission may alter or impose additional requirements if the
following criteria apply:
      (1)   If adherence to the previously approved preliminary plat will
hinder the orderly development of other land in the area in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter; or
      (2)   If adherence to the previously approved preliminary plat will be
detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare, or will be injurious to
other property in the area.
   (F)   The final plat and the accompanying site improvement data and detailed
cost estimates shall be approved by the Town Administrator or his or her
designee.
   (G)   The final plat shall also include the following:
      (1)   The names and addresses of the developer/subdivider, record owner,
surveyor, or engineer.
      (2)   Proposed name of the subdivision, which shall not have the same
spelling as or be pronounced, similarly to the name of any other subdivision
located within the town or within five miles of the town;
      (3)   Names of contiguous subdivisions and the owner(s) of contiguous
parcels of unsubdivided land, and an indication of whether or not contiguous
properties are platted;
      (4)   Description, by metes and bounds, of the subdivision;
      (5)   Primary control points or descriptions, and ties to such control
points to which all dimensions, angles, bearings, block numbers and similar
data shall be referenced;
      (6)   The exact location, dimensions, name and description of all
existing or recorded streets, alleys, reservations, easements, or other public
right-of-ways within the subdivision, intersecting or contiguous with its
boundary or forming such boundary, with accurate dimensions, bearing or
deflecting angles and radii, area, and central angle, degree of curvature,
tangent distance and length of all curves where appropriate;
      (7)   The exact location, dimensions, description and name of all
proposed streets, alleys, drainage structures, parks, other public areas,
reservations, easements or other right-of-ways, blocks, lots, and other sites
within the subdivision with accurate dimensions, bearing or deflecting angles
with radii, area, and central angles, degree of curvature, tangent distance and
length of all curves where appropriate.
      (8)   All utility companies shall sign off on the plat prior to its
submittal to the town.
   (G)   When filed, the final plat shall be accompanied by the following site
improvement data:
      (1)   All plans and engineering calculations shall bear the seal and
signature of an engineer.
      (2)   All streets, alleys, sidewalks, crosswalk ways and monuments and
two copies of plans and profiles of all streets, alleys, sidewalks, crosswalk
ways, and monuments, and two copies of retailed cost estimates.
      (3)   Sanitary sewers.
         (a)   Two copies of the proposed plat, showing two-foot contours and
the proposed location and dimensions of existing sanitary sewer lines;
         (b)   Two copies of plans, profiles and specifications of proposed
sanitary sewer lines indicating depths and grades of lines; when a separate
sewer system or treatment plant is proposed, two copies of proposed plans and
specifications;
         (c)   Two copies of detailed cost estimates.
      (4)   Water lines.
         (a)   Two copies of the proposed plan showing two-foot contours and
the location and size of existing water lines and fire hydrants; .
         (b)   Two copies of the plans, profiles and specifications of all
proposed water lines and fire hydrants, showing depths and grades of the lines;
         (c)   When a separate water system is planned, or when connection is
proposed to a water system other than to the town water system, two copies of
the plans, including fire hydrants, of the proposed system;
         (d)   Two copies of detailed cost estimates.
      (5)   Storm drainage.
         (a)   Two copies of the proposed plat, indicating two-foot contours.
All street widths and grades shall be indicated on the plat, and runoff figures
shall be indicated on the outlet and inlet side of all drainage ditches and
storm sewers, and at all points in the street at changes of grade or where the
water enters another street or storm sewer or drainage ditch. Drainage
easements shall be indicated;
         (b)   A general location map of the subdivision showing the entire
watershed [a United States Geological Survey (U.S.G.S.) quadrangle is
satisfactory];
         (c)   Calculations and maps showing the anticipated stormwater flow,
including watershed area, percent runoff, and time of concentration. When a
drainage ditch or storm sewer is proposed, calculations shall be submitted
showing basis for design;
         (d)   When a drainage channel or storm sewer is proposed, complete
plans, profiles, and specifications shall be submitted, showing complete
construction details;
         (e)   When conditions upstream or downstream from a proposed channel
or storm sewer do not permit maximum design flow, high water marks based on a
25-year frequency shall be indicated based on existing conditions;
         (f)   Two copies of detailed cost estimates;
         (g)   The final plat shall also include the following:
            (1)   Owner’s acknowledgment of the dedication to public use of all
streets, alleys, parks, and other public places shown on such final plat;
            (2)   The certification of the Town Engineer that the final plat
conforms to all requirements of the subdivision regulations of the town;
            (3)   A statement that the final plat has been approved by the
Commission;
            (4)   The certification of the surveyor responsible for surveying
the subdivision area, attesting to its accuracy; and
            (5)   A certification by the engineer responsible for the
preparation of the final plat and supporting data, attesting to its accuracy.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.091  PROCESSING.
   (A)   If desired by the developer and approved by the Commission, the final
plat may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary plat which he
proposes to record and develop. However, such portion shall conform to all the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   As soon as practical after the developer is notified of the approval
of the preliminary plat, his or her engineer shall submit to the Commission at
an official meeting the final plat of the subdivision or portion thereof.
   (C)   No final plat will be considered unless a preliminary plat has been
approved previously, except under these conditions.
      (1)   A minor plat as meeting the requirements of §§
153.050 through
153.055; or
      (2)   An amending plat meeting the requirements of §§
153.050 through
153.055.
   (D)   When the final plat is filed with the town for approval by the
Commission, it shall be accompanied by the following fees:
      (1)   Fees in accordance with the adopted fee schedule; and
      (2)   A check or checks payable to the County Clerk in the amount of the
recordation fee for filing the final plat.
   (E)   Within 30 days after the final plat application has been submitted to
the town and meeting the requirements of this chapter, the Commission shall
approve or disapprove the final plat. If the final plat is disapproved, the
Commission shall inform the developer/owner in writing of the reasons at the
time such action is taken.
   (F)   After the final plat has been finally approved and the developer has
constructed all the required improvements and such improvements have been
approved, and a maintenance bond filed as provided in this chapter; or after
the plat has been finally approved and the developer has filed the security and
maintenance bond provided in this chapter, the Commission shall cause the final
plat to be recorded with the County Clerk or Clerks in the county or counties
in which the subdivision lies. The Commission shall also cause the check or
checks for the recordation fee or fees deposited at the time the final plat was
filed for approval to be delivered with the final plat to the County Clerk.
   (G)   The plat must be accompanied by a tax certificate provided by the
county in which it is filed.
   (H)   The final plat must be accompanied by the owner’s certificate of
dedication which has been duly signed and notarized.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 153.100  GENERALLY.
   No preliminary or final plat shall be approved by the Commission, and no
completed improvements shall be accepted by the Town Engineer unless they
conform to the following standards and specifications.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.101  CONFORMITY WITH COMPREHENSIVE MASTER PLAN.
   The subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Master Plan of the town.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.102  PROVISION FOR FUTURE SUBDIVISIONS.
   If a tract is subdivided into parcels larger than ordinary building lots,
such parcels shall be arranged to allow for the opening of future streets.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.103  RESERVE STRIPS PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no reserve strips controlling access to land dedicated or
intended to be dedicated to public use.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.104  STREETS.
   (A)   Street layout. Adequate streets shall be provided by the developer and
the arrangement, character, extent, width, grade and location of each shall
conform to the Comprehensive Plan of the town and shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to topographical conditions, to
public safety and convenience, and in their appropriate relationship to the
proposed uses of land to be served by such streets. The street layout shall be
devised for the most advantageous development of the entire neighborhood.
   (B)   Relation to adjoining street system. Where necessary to the
neighborhood pattern, existing streets in adjoining areas shall be continued,
and shall be at least as wide as such existing streets and in alignment
therewith.
   (C)   Projection of streets. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the
arrangement of streets in the subdivision shall make provision for the proper
projection of streets into such unsubdivided areas.
   (D)   Street jogs. Whenever possible, street jogs with center line offsets
of less than 125 feet shall be avoided.
   (E)   Half-streets or adjacent streets. In the case of collector, minor or
marginal access streets, no new half-streets shall be platted.
   (F)   Street intersections. Street intersections shall be as nearly at right
angles as practicable, giving due regard to terrain and topography.
   (G)   Dead-end streets. Dead-end streets shall be prohibited except as short
stubs to permit future expansion.
   (H)   Cul-de-sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall not exceed 600 feet in length and shall
have a turnaround of not less than 100 feet in diameter.
   (I)   Marginal access streets. Where a subdivision has frontage on an
arterial street, there shall be provided a marginal access street on both sides
or on the subdivision side of the arterial street, if the arterial street
borders the subdivision, unless the adjacent lots back up to the arterial
street, or unless the Commission determines that such marginal access streets
are not desirable under the facts of a particular case for adequate protection
of the lots and separation of through and local traffic.
   (J)   Streets on Comprehensive Plan. Where a subdivision embraces a street
as shown on the Comprehensive Plan of the town, such street shall be platted in
the location and of the width indicated by the Comprehensive Plan. A traffic
impact analysis may be required by the Town Engineer to determine if the
dedication of right-of-way on the Comprehensive Plan meets the test of rough
proportionality.
   (K)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be laid out so as to discourage
their use by through traffic.
   (L)   Pavement widths and rights-of-way. Pavement widths and rights-of-way
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Undivided arterial streets shall have a right-of-way width of at
least 80 feet, with a pavement width of at least 48 feet. Divided arterials
shall have right-of-way width based on 12-foot lanes, 15-foot median and ten-
foot parkways.
      (2)   Collector streets shall have a right-of-way of at least 60 feet and
a pavement width of at least 36 feet.
      (3)   Minor streets shall have a right-of-way of at least 50 feet and a
pavement width of at least 30 feet.
      (4)   Nonresidential marginal access streets shall have a right-of-way
width of at least 50 feet and a pavement width of at least 30 feet. Residential
marginal access streets shall have a right-of-way width of at least 50 feet and
a pavement width of at least 30 feet.
   (M)   Curbs.
      (1)   Curbs shall be installed by the developer at the time of
development on both sides of all interior streets, and on the subdivision side
of all perimeter streets; however, on perimeter streets, the developer may, at
the option of the town, and in lieu of placing curbs at such location at the
time of final plat approval, enter into an agreement with the town to pay for
the construction of such curbs when the same becomes necessary in order to
provide for adequate drainage on the streets.
      (2)   The developer shall provide in the dedication paragraph of the
plat, if the option provided for in this division (M) is chosen, the following
language: developer (owner), his heirs, successors and assignees agree to pay
for the installation and construction of all curbs on perimeter streets which
have not been installed at the time of the approval of this plat.
      (3)   Subdivisions containing individual lots one acre or more in size
are not required to install curbs in accordance with this division (M).
   (N)   Street names. Names of new streets shall not duplicate or cause
confusion with the names of existing streets, unless the new streets are a
continuation of or in alignment with existing streets, in which case names of
existing streets shall be used.
   (O)   Street lights. Street lights shall be installed by the developer at
all street intersections within the subdivision.
   (P)   Street signs. Street signs shall be installed by the developer at all
intersections within or abutting the subdivision. Such signs shall be of a type
approved by the town, and shall be installed in accordance with standards of
the town.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.105  ALLEYS.
   (A)   Width and paving. Alleys of not less than 20 feet in right-of-way
width and pavement width shall be installed by the developer/owner in all
business and industrial areas. In residential areas, alleys not less than 20
feet in right-of-way width, with a pavement width of not less than 15 feet,
shall be optional. All alley paving shall be done in accordance with town
standards. Alleys shall be approximately parallel to the frontage of the
street.
   (B)   Intersecting alleys of utility easements. Where two alleys or utility
easements intersect or turn at a right angle, a cutoff of not less than ten
feet from the normal intersection of the property or easement line shall be
provided along each property or easement line.
   (C)   Dead-end alleys. Dead-end alleys shall not be permitted.
   (D)   Overhang easements. In all alleys, overhang easements for electric and
telephone lines of a least five feet on each side of the alley strip at a
height at or above 16 feet shall be provided.
   (E)   Alleys which do not connect on a straight course. If alleys are not
themselves straight within each block, or if the same does not connect on a
straight course with the alleys of adjoining blocks, then an easement shall be
provided for the placing of guy wires on lot division lines in order to support
poles set on curving or deviating right-of-ways or alleys.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.106  UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Each block that does not contain an alley as provided for in §
153.105 shall have a utility easement at the rear of all lots reserved for the
use of all public utility lines, conduits and equipment. These utility
easements shall be 15 feet in width, taking seven and one-half feet from each
lot where the rear of two lots abut each other, and shall be contiguous for the
entire length of the block. These easements shall parallel as closely as
possible the street line frontage of the block.
   (B)   Normal curb exposure shall be required where utility easements
intersect streets.
   (C)   Overhang easements of at least five feet on each side of the 15-foot
easement strip, at a height at or above 16 feet, shall be provided in all
utility easements.
   (D)   Where utility easements are not themselves straight within each block,
or if the same do not connect on a straight course with the utility easements
of adjoining blocks, an additional easement shall be provided for the placing
of guy wires on lot division lines in order to support poles set on curving or
deviating right-of-ways or alleys.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.107  SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks are not required.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.108  WATER INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Water supply and distribution. All subdivisions shall be provided with
water supply and water distribution systems approved by the Director of Public
Works.
   (B)   Fire hydrants. Standard fire hydrants shall be installed as part of
the water distribution system per specifications of the Fire Chief of the town
and the State Board of Insurance.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.109  SEWERS.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall be provided with an approved sewage disposal
system.
   (B)   Connection with the sanitary sewer system shall be required except
where the Town Administrator determines that such connection will require
unreasonable methods of sewage disposal. Where septic tanks are to be
installed, the subdivider shall conduct soil tests on each lot of the proposed
subdivision under the supervision of the Director of Public Works in order to
determine the adequacy of proposed lot sizes. If a sanitary sewage disposal
system is to be installed, the plans for such system must be approved by
Tarrant County Health Department, prior to approval of the final plat by the
Commission.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.110  UTILITY LINES.
   All utility lines that pass under a street or alley shall be installed
before the street or alley is paved. When it is necessary that utility lines
pass under the street or alley pavement, they shall be installed to a point at
least three feet beyond the edge of the pavement.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.111  MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Monuments shall be located at the intersection of a line five feet
north from and parallel to the north line of each block with a line five feet
east from and parallel to the east line of the block, unless such point of
intersection occurs within the limits of street paving. In such a case,
alternate monument location shall be approved by the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Where, due to topographic conditions, permanent structures, or other
conditions, the view is obstructed between any two adjacent monuments,
intermediate monuments shall be so set to assure a clear view between adjacent
monuments.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.112  DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Easements. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainage
way, natural channel or stream, there shall be provided an easement or right-
of-way conforming substantially to the limit of such watercourse, plus
additional width to accommodate future needs.
   (B)   Drainage facilities. Drainage facilities shall be provided and
constructed as specified by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.113  BLOCK LENGTH.
   Block lengths shall not exceed 1,000 feet.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.114  CROSSWALKS.
   (A)   Where deemed necessary by the Commission to provide circulation to
schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation facilities and other
community facilities, or to provide pedestrian circulation within the
subdivision, marked crosswalks shall be provided. Marked crosswalks shall
consist of solid white lines that mark the crosswalk. They shall not be less
than six inches wide or greater than 24 inches in width.
   (B)   If transverse lines are used to mark a crosswalk, the gap between the
lines should not be less than six feet. If diagonal or longitudinal lines are
used without transverse lines to mark a crosswalk, the crosswalk should not be
less than six feet wide.
   (C)   Crosswalk lines, if used on both sides of the crosswalk, should extend
across the full width of pavement or to the edge of the intersecting crosswalk
to discourage diagonal walking between crosswalks. At locations controlled by
traffic control signals or on approaches controlled by “Stop” or”Yield” signs,
crosswalk lines should be installed where engineering judgment indicates they
are needed to direct pedestrians to the proper crossing path(s).
   (D)   Crosswalk lines should not be used indiscriminately. An engineering
study should be performed before a marked crosswalk is installed at a location
away from a traffic control signal or an approach controlled by a “Stop” or
“Yield” sign. The engineering study should consider the number of lanes, the
presence of a median, the distance from adjacent signalized intersections, the
pedestrian volumes and delays, the average daily traffic (ADT), the posted or
statutory speed limit or eighty-fifth percentile speed, the geometry of the
location, the possible consolidation of multiple crossing points, the
availability of street lighting, and other appropriate factors.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.115  LOTS.
   (A)   Where off-lot sewer is provided, each single-family detached
residential lot shall have an area of at least 9,000 square feet, shall be at
least 100 feet deep and shall be at least 70 feet wide. In case of irregularly
shaped lots, the minimum width shall be measured at the front building line.
   (B)   Where off-lot sewer is not required, and is not provided, residential
lots shall have an area of at least 15,000 square feet, shall be at least 100
feet deep, and shall be at least 85 feet wide. Where, as the result of the soil
test prescribed in §
153.109(B), the Tarrant County Health Department deems the minimum lot area
insufficient, the Commission shall require additional area sufficient to
accommodate the sanitary facilities deemed necessary by the Tarrant County
Health Department. In case of irregularly shaped lots, the minimum width shall
be measured at the front building line.
   (C)   Corner lots shall be a minimum of 20 feet wider than the minimum lot
width for interior lots in the zoning district in which the subdivision is
platted. Lots abutting on crosswalk ways shall be treated as corner lots. In
the case of subdivisions platted in the extraterritorial jurisdiction, the
corner lot width shall be the minimum interior lot width approved for that
subdivision plus 20 feet.
   (D)   Each lot shall front upon a public street. Lots of irregular shape
shall not be allowed unless they have a street frontage of at least 20 feet.
   (E)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight
street lines and radial to curved street lines.
   (F)   Where a lot in a residential area backs up to a railroad right-of-way,
a high-pressure gasoline, oil or gas line, an arterial street, an industrial
area, or other land use which has a depreciating effect on residential
property, and where no marginal access street or other street is provided at
the rear of such lot, additional depth may be required by the Commission. Where
a lot sides to any of the above, additional width shall be required by the
Commission.
   (G)   In subdivisions platted after the effective date of this chapter,
where each lot maintains an individual water supply well and sewage system with
a subsurface soil system, the plat shall show the approved well location and
sanitary control easement around the well within a 150-foot radius in which no
subsurface sewage system may be constructed.
   (H)   Where a subdivision is platted so that residential lots back up to a
collector street, at least a six-foot high solid screening fence along the rear
lot line shall be required, except for one gate not to exceed 48 inches per
each lot, and vehicular access from the collector street shall be prohibited.
The construction of the fence shall be required in the developer agreement and
shall be accomplished by the developer at the time that public facilities
installation is required.
   (I)   Where a subdivision is platted so that residential lots are adjacent
to a collector street, private residential driveways shall be prohibited to
connect to collector streets except where a concrete surface has been provided
for maneuvering so as not to require backing onto the collector street, and
driveways shall not be closer than 100 feet from center line of driveway to
center line of driveway.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES
§ 153.125  CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO FILING OF PLAT.
   If under §
153.091(F) the developer chooses to construct the required improvements prior
to recordation of the final plat, all such construction shall be inspected
while in progress by the appropriate town staff, and must be approved upon
completion by the Town Engineer. A certificate by such officer stating that the
construction conforms to the specifications and standards contained in or
referred to in this chapter must be presented to the Commission prior to
approval of the final plat. Prior to such approval, the developer shall file
with the town a maintenance bond, executed by a surety company holding a
license to do business in the State of Texas, and acceptable to the Commission,
in an amount equal to 100% of the cost of the improvements required, as
estimated by the Town Engineer, conditioned that the developer will maintain
such improvements in good condition for a period of two years after approval of
the final plat. Such bond shall be approved as to form and legality by the Town
Attorney.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.126  CONSTRUCTION AFTER FILING OF PLAT.
   (A)   If under §
153.091(F) the developer chooses to file security or bonds in lieu of
completing construction prior to final plat approval, he or she may utilize
either of the following methods of posting security:
      (1)   The developer shall file with the town a performance bond executed
by a surety company holding a license to do business in the State of Texas, and
acceptable to the Town Attorney, in an amount equal to the cost of the
improvements required by this chapter as estimated by the Town Engineer,
conditioned that the developer will complete such improvements within one year
after approval of the plat; or
      (2)   Alternatively the developer shall place on deposit in a trust
account in a bank or trust company selected by the developer and approved by
the town, a sum of money equal to the estimated cost of all improvements
required by this town as estimated by the Town Engineer.
   (B)   If either type of security is filed by the developer under division
(A) above, the filing of such security shall be accompanied by a maintenance
bond executed by a surety company holding a license to do business in the State
of Texas, and acceptable to the Town Attorney, in an amount equal to 100% of
the cost of the improvements required as estimated by the Town Engineer,
conditioned that the developer will maintain such improvements in good
condition for a period of two years after final acceptance of the completed
construction by the town, as provided in division (C) below.
   (C)   If either type of security is filed by the developer under division
(A) above, the Town Inspector and the Town Engineer shall inspect the
construction of the improvements while in progress, and upon completion of
construction. After final inspection, the Town Engineer shall notify the
developer in writing as to his or her acceptance or rejection of the
construction. Upon satisfactory completion of construction, the Town
Administrator shall issue a statement of acceptance of the ownership and
maintenance of the facilities by the town. He or she shall reject such
construction only if it fails to comply with the standards and specifications
contained or referred to in this chapter. If he or she rejects such
construction, the Town Attorney shall, on direction of the City Council,
proceed to enforce the guarantees provided in this section.
   (D)   Where good cause exists, the Town Engineer may extend the period of
time for completion under division (A) above for an additional period of time
not to exceed six months if the developer has not completed the required
improvements in compliance with this chapter. No such extension shall be
granted unless security as provided in division (A) above has been provided by
the developer covering the extended period of time.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
WATER AND SEWER MAIN EXTENSIONS
§ 153.135  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to provide a method for individual property
owners and developers to recover reasonable costs when the installation of a
water or sewer main extension is required and to establish a methodology for
calculating and collecting fees from the developer who wish to connect to the
main extension.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.136  CRITERIA.
   (A)   The property to which the utility main extends must be platted and the
developer must follow all development guidelines and building codes as well as
construction standards and specifications of the town.
   (B)   All easements, dedications, and public rights-of-way necessary to
construct the main extension must be acquired by the developer at the
developer's expense and filed in the county deed records by the town.
   (C)   No reimbursement shall be allowed for on-site utility lines unless
said lines are required to be oversized.
   (D)   No reimbursement shall be allowed for off-site main extensions of less
than 200 feet. If the site extension from an existing utility main to the
developer’s property line is greater than 200 feet, this section may be
utilized.
   (E)   No reimbursement shall be allowed for any utility main extension that
is shown on the water or wastewater capital improvements plan.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.137  ENGINEERING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Utility mains shall be extended through a development as determined by
the Town Engineer to allow for utility main extensions to other future
developments.
   (B)   The engineering design shall be performed by a registered professional
engineer licensed in the State of Texas at the expense of the developer. All
engineering and construction standards must be approved by the town and must
meet the town’s construction standards and specifications for public works.
   (C)   The developer must extend at his or her expense any on-site water or
sewer lines for the proposed development to an existing main.
   (D)   The developer will construct at least six-inch mains or the portion of
the utility main extension that meets the capacity needs of the development,
whichever is greater.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.138  REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   A request for pro rata reimbursement must be included in the developer
agreement executed in connection with the development of the subdivision.
   (B)   The developer shall provide the town itemized reports of the costs
incurred in constructing the utility main extensions. The Town Secretary shall
maintain records of expenditures for each utility main extension project. Fees
for inspection and management of the program shall be recovered by the town.
   (C)   The developer shall be entitled to reimbursement from pro rata costs
charged to other developer’s who connect to the utility mains for a period not
to exceed seven years from the date of acceptance of the utility main
extensions by the town.
   (D)   The reimbursement amount shall be assessed on a linear foot frontage
basis. State or federal government properties which are not subject to
development shall not be included in the acreage calculation.
   (E)   In the event that both a transmission and a distribution main are
located along the frontage of the developer’s property, the fee will be based
upon the distribution main only.
   (F)   Reimbursements will be made to the original developer signing the
developer agreement with the town, which is nontransferable, unless otherwise
stated within the agreement. Reimbursements shall be made at the time a new
developer connects to the main extension beginning at the acceptance of the
utility main extension, and upon written request from the original developer.
The total amount reimbursed shall not exceed 100% of the actual construction
costs. Reimbursement funds shall be paid to the town who shall in turn make
payment to the original developer.
   (G)   Extension fees shall be determined by the following calculation:
      (1)   Extension fees = length of property along which the line(s) is/are
located, multiplied by the cost of utility main installation per linear foot as
specified in the itemized report submitted by the developer.
      (2)   With approval of the town, costs for the procurement of easements,
dedications and public rights-of-way shall be totaled and divided by the linear
foot length of the utility main extension. The per foot cost shall be added to
the actual utility main extension cost.
   (H)   Fees will be collected from property owners or developers who will be
served by the main extension prior to the approval of their final plat or site
plan, or issuance of their building permit, whichever is first. The original
developer shall request payment from the town of any money which has been
collected pertaining to the project.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
INSTALLATION COSTS
§ 153.145  GENERALLY.
   After the Commission has approved the final plat, but prior to the town
filing said plat with the county(s), the developer shall deliver to the Town
Administrator the executed agreements stipulated herein. The forms for these
agreements shall be furnished by the town to be properly completed and executed
by the developer.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.146  WATER AND SEWER SYSTEM.
   The developer shall furnish the town a copy of an executed developer
agreement executed by the developer and the town, which will assure the town
that all water and sewer facilities (where sewer is accessible) will be
constructed as shown by the plans approved by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.147  STREET AND DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   The developer shall furnish the town a copy of an executed developer
agreement executed by the developer and the town, which will assure the town
that all street and drainage facilities will be constructed as shown by the
plans approved by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.148  DEVELOPER AGREEMENT.
   The developer agreement shall be in a form approved by the town.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.149  DEVELOPMENT FEES PAYABLE TO THE TOWN.
   (A)   (1)   The developer shall pay all costs attributable to the
installation of water, sewage, street and drainage facilities as are needed to
fulfill the basic criteria requirements to the town for service to his or her
subdivision. Such costs generally comprise the following:
         (a)   Easement or right-of-way cost;
         (b)   Direct construction cost;
         (c)   Engineering design and general administration;
         (d)   Review and handling of plan and contract documents;
         (e)   Construction layout, cut sheets and field adjustments;
         (f)   Inspection and acceptance by town;
         (g)   Fees assessed by others not within the control of the town.
      (2)   In all cases, the developer shall furnish or pay for all easements
or rights-of-way, and all fees or assessments by other parties not within the
control of the town. Also, in all cases, the developer shall pay to the town a
fee in the amount of 4% of the actual construction cost for which the town
reviews the plans and contract documents and performs the inspection and
acceptance of the work (division (A)(1)(d) and (f) above. The developer shall
employ his or her own engineer to furnish the engineering design, general
administration, construction layout, cut sheets and field adjustments (division
(A)(1)(c) and (e) above) at no cost to the town.
   (B)   All subdivision extensions shall be covered by a developer agreement,
which clearly defines the scope of details of the proposed extension and
particularly contains the developer’s agreement to abide by all regulations of
the town and to deliver to the town clear and unencumbered title to all the
proposed improvements at the time of acceptance by the town, which must be
prior to commencing service.
   (C)   The town shall participate in the cost of subdivision extensions only
where and to the extent that oversized facilities in addition to the
subdivision’s needs are required for the proper overall benefit of the system.
Such oversizing needs shall be determined by the Town Engineer(s) with
concurrence of the Town Administrator and shall be authorized only by approval
of the City Council.
   (D)   When the town participates in the cost of constructing the project by
oversizing facilities, or other participation, the contract for construction
shall be executed between the town and the developer or contractor after
compliance with all statutory requirements for advertising and receiving
competitive bids. When the town does not participate in the construction costs
of the project, the contract for construction may be negotiated between the
developer and the contractor of his or her choice, or bids may be received. In
cases where the construction contract is between the town and the contractor,
the developer will then place in escrow, with the town, funds totaling the
amount of the contract plus the appropriate percentage fees as outlined in
division (A) above.
   (E)   Refunds to the developer shall be made only for applicable situations
involving connections to off-site facilities (approach mains) or boundary
facilities, and then only when provisions for such refunds are specifically
provided for in the developer agreement executed prior to construction of the
extensions.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.150  PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The developer shall initiate preliminary action by obtaining a copy of
applicable portions of policies and procedures from the town. The developer
then shall have his or her engineer prepare and submit to the Town
Administrator who forwards to the Town Engineer(s) after a review by the Fire
Chief, a preliminary layout of proposed water and sewer extensions superimposed
on an approved preliminary plat signed by the town, along with his tentative
estimate of costs for the overall development, and for the first section if
incremental development is proposed. The Town Engineer shall then review the
proposed preliminary plat and return it to the town with comments and
recommendations concerning acceptability and oversizing needed. The town shall
then advise the developer of tentative approval or necessary changes, with a
copy to Town Engineer.
   (B)   The town shall furnish the developer with three blank forms of the
standard developer agreement. The developers engineer shall prepare and submit
to the town complete construction plans, specifications and other necessary
contract documents, along with estimates of the developer’s cost and town
participation, and two blue line prints of the final plat showing approval
signature for the town. Such documents shall be submitted to the Town Engineer
for review and after they have been fully completed, and are acceptable and
approved by the Commission, the town shall return them to the developer with
notice of approval, at which time the developer shall submit the executed
developer agreement and the town’s inspection fee of 4%.
   (C)   After selection of the contractor has been accomplished by bids or
negotiation the actual construction shall be accomplished as follows:
      (1)   In those cases where the city is participating in the costs, after
bids are received, the Town Engineer receives and recommends an award to the
Town Administrator or his or her designee. Alternatively, the developer shall
advise the town and shall furnish bid amounts. The Town Administrator shall
notify the developer to have documents executed and returned to town. After
receipt of executed documents, the Town Administrator or his or her designee
shall issue a work order.
      (2)   After the work order is issued, the developer’s engineer shall
provide the construction layout and staking and shall prepare cut sheets for
all sewers. A copy of all cut sheets shall be furnished to the Town Engineer,
or inspector and the contractor. Also, a copy of the actual construction
staking filed notes shall be furnished to the Town Engineer. The inspector
shall inspect the work and review the partial and final pay estimates to the
contractor as prepared by the developer’s engineer. After pay estimates have
been agreed upon by the town and the contractor, they shall be transmitted to
the Town Engineer for review. The Town Engineer shall check all pay estimates
and after they are in order, shall transmit them to the Town Administrator or
his or her designee with recommendation for payment or corrections as noted.
After final completion of the work to the satisfaction of the inspector and
Town Engineer and the Town Administrator shall issue a statement of acceptance
of the facilities for ownership and operation by the town to the developer.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.151  EVALUATED PRICES.
   When the town participates in the cost of facilities for oversizing or for
any other reason, separate bid items shall be set up to reflect the cost to the
town when such separate items can be feasibly determined. In the absence of
such specific bid prices, the price shall be determined by using a current bid
price or the Town Engineer’s estimated price.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.152  DEVELOPER PAYMENTS.
   When any extension or improvement to the water and/or sewer system is to be
installed under contract between the town and a contractor, the cost of which
is to be paid wholly or partially by a developer, the contractor shall not be
authorized to commence work until after the town has received the full amount
due from the developer, either in cash to be placed in escrow or by irrevocable
commercial letter of credit from a bank or other financial institution
acceptable to the town, the conditions of such letter to be included in the
developer agreement and in a form approved by the City Attorney.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.153  GUARANTEE OF PERFORMANCE.
   In those cases wherein the town has no participation in the development
costs and the developer has either received bids or negotiated for the
development construction, the following requirements shall be met:
   (A)   All plans for construction of sewer, water, storm drainage and paving
shall be approved by the Town Engineer. These plans shall include a signed
statement signifying the developer’s agreement to complete all improvements
shown thereon, and a developer agreement shall be executed.
   (B)   Letters of consent to the platting and improvements shall be submitted
by all lienholders and other parties having rightful claim of ownership or
easement to the property.
   (C)   If easements are needed outside of the plat boundaries, the executed
dedication instruments shall be submitted prior to final plat approval.
   (D)   The developer shall file security prior to final plat approval by one
of the following methods:
      (1)   Performance bond. Filing with the Town Engineer a bond executed by
a surety company holding a license to do business in the State of Texas and
acceptable to the town, in an amount equal to the cost of the improvements
required by this chapter and within the time for completion of the improvements
as estimated by the Town Engineer. The performance bond shall be approved as to
form and legality by the Town Attorney.
      (2)   Trust agreement. Placing a deposit with a bank or trust company in
the name of the town, in a trust account in an amount equal to the estimated
cost of all site improvements required by this chapter, the cost and time of
completion as approved by the Town Engineer. Selection of the trustee shall be
executed on the form approved as to form and legality by the Town Attorney.
Periodic withdrawals may be made from the trust account for a progressive
payment of installation cost. The amounts of such withdrawals shall be based
upon progress work estimates and approved by the Town Engineer. All such
withdrawals shall be approved by the trustee.
      (3)   Letter of credit. Filing with the Town Engineer a letter, on a form
approved by the Town Attorney, signed by the principal officer of a local bank
or local federally insured savings and loan association or other financial
institution; acceptable to the town, agreeing to pay the town on demand, a
stipulated sum of money to apply to the estimated cost of installation of all
improvements for which the developer is responsible under this chapter. The
guaranteed payment sum shall be estimated costs and scheduling as approved by
the Town Engineer. The letter shall state the name of the subdivisions and
shall list the improvements the developer is required to provide.
   (E)   The developer shall furnish a certificate from a competent attorney
setting forth the title and ownership of the land as shown by the survey and
correct legal description. A reliable abstract company title certificate and
title policy setting forth the same information may be accepted in lieu
thereof.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
§ 153.160  FLOOD HAZARD AREAS GENERALLY.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
These flood losses are caused by:
      (1)   The cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains causing
increases in flood heights and velocities; and
      (2)   The occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods,
or hazardous to other land, which are inadequately elevated or otherwise
protected from flood damages.
   (B)   This subchapter is based upon a reasonable method of analyzing flood
hazards, to wit: the latest Flood Insurance Study sponsored by the Federal
Insurance Administration.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.161  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to promote the public health, safety
and welfare, and to minimize the losses described in §
153.160(A) by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit the development of lands for uses which are
dangerous to health, safety or property in times of flood or which, with
reasonably anticipated improvements, will cause excessive increases in flood
heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that each platted lot in an area vulnerable to floods be
provided with a safe building site with adequate access and that public
facilities which serve such uses be installed with protection against flood
damages at the time of initial construction; or
   (C)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are unsuited for intended
purposes because of flood hazards by prohibiting the platting of unprotected
flood hazard lands, requiring that flood hazard areas be delineated on the
final plat, and reserving through deed restrictions areas not suitable for
development.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.162  APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction and
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town delineated as flood hazard areas on
the floodway map.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.163  WARNING; DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required under this subchapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on engineering and scientific
methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may
be increased by man-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris. This subchapter does not imply that areas
outside the delineated flood hazard areas or land uses permitted within such
areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This subchapter shall not
create liability on the part of the town or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this subchapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.164  LAND SUITABILITY.
   No land shall be platted which is determined by the Commission to be
unsuitable for its intended use by reason of flooding, inadequate drainage,
soil and rock formations with severe limitations for development,
susceptibility to mudslides or earth-slides, severe erosion potential,
unfavorable topography, inadequate water supply or sewage disposal
capabilities, or any other feature harmful to the health, safety or welfare of
the future residents or property owners of the proposed development or the
community at large. However, the Commission may approve preliminary and final
plats if developers improve lands consistent with the standards of this and
other applicable ordinances to make the property, in the opinion of the
Commission, suitable for its intended uses. The Commission may also approve the
preliminary and final plats if the developer agrees to make suitable
improvements and place a sum in escrow pursuant to this subchapter to guarantee
performance. In determining the appropriateness of land development at a site,
the Commission shall consider the objectives of this subchapter, and:
   (A)   The danger to life and property due to the increased flood heights or
velocities caused by fill, roads, and intended uses;
   (B)   The danger that intended uses may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others;
   (C)   The adequacy of proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the
ability of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary
conditions under flood conditions;
   (D)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (E)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (F)   The requirements of the development for a waterfront location;
   (G)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding for
the proposed development and land uses;
   (H)   The compatibility of the proposed uses with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
   (I)   The relationship of the proposed development to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area;
   (J)   The safety of access to the property for emergency vehicles in times
of flood;
   (K)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters expected at the site;
   (L)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical, water systems, streets and bridges.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.165  BUILDING SITE IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   No development or part thereof shall be approved if proposed levees,
fills, structures or other features will individually or collectively
significantly increase flood flows, heights, or damages.
   (B)   Building sites for residences, motels, resorts or other dwelling or
accommodation uses shall not be permitted in floodway areas. Sites for these
uses may be permitted outside the floodway if the sites are elevated or filled
to a height of at least 18 inches above the elevation of the regulatory flood
or if other provisions are made for elevating or adapting structures to achieve
the same result. Required fill areas must extend ten feet beyond the limits of
intended structures and, if the development is not to be sewered, must include
areas for onsite waste disposal.
   (C)   Building sites for structures not included in division (B) above shall
similarly not be permitted in floodway areas. Such sites located outside the
floodway shall ordinarily be protected as provided in this subchapter. However,
the Commission may allow development for commercial and industrial use at a
lower elevation if the developer protects the areas to a height of 18 inches
above the regulatory flood protection elevation by levees, seawalls, channel
modifications, or other protective techniques, or if the developer assures that
uses will be protected through structural floodproofing, flood-warning systems
or other techniques specified in this subchapter.
   (D)   If the Commission determines that only part of a proposed plat can be
safely developed, it shall limit development to that part and shall require
that development proceed consistent with this determination.
   (E)   When the developer does not intend to develop the plat himself and the
Commission determines that additional use controls are required to ensure safe
development, it may require the developer to impose appropriate deed
restrictions on the land. Such deed restrictions shall be inserted in every
deed and noted on the face of the final recorded plat.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.166  DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   Storm drainage facilities shall be designed to store and convey the flow of
surface waters from a  25-year frequency storm without damage to persons or
property. The system shall ensure drainage at all points along streets, and
provide positive drainage away from buildings and on-site waste disposal sites.
Plans shall be subject to approval by the Commission. The Commission may
require a primarily underground system to accommodate frequent floods (five-
year) and a secondary surface system to accommodate less frequent floods (25-
year). Drainage plans shall be consistent with local and regional drainage
plans.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.167  SANITARY SEWER FACILITIES.
   (A)   The Commission may prohibit installation of sewage disposal facilities
requiring soil absorption systems where such systems will not function due to
high ground water, flooding, or unsuitable soil characteristics. The Commission
may require that the developer/owner note on the face of the plat and in any
deed of conveyance that soil absorption fields are prohibited in designated
areas.
   (B)   The Commission may prescribe adequate methods for waste disposal. If a
sanitary sewer system is located on or near the proposed development, the
Commission shall require the developer/owner to provide sewage facilities to
connect to this system where practical, and shall prescribe the procedures to
be followed by the developer/owner in connecting to the system.
   (C)   If town sanitary sewer is available within 100 feet of the subject
property, the use of an existing septic tank may be continued until the
privately owned sanitary sewer system ceases to be a functioning septic tank.
No privately owned septic system may be installed after the date of sewer
availability.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.168  WATER FACILITIES.
   All water systems, including individual wells, located in flood-prone areas,
whether public or private, shall be flood proofed to a point at or above the
flood protection elevation. If there is an existing public water supply system
on or near the development, the Commission may require the developer/owner to
convert to this system. The Commission may require the developer/owner to
utilize grading techniques, subdivision design, landscaping, sedimentation
basins, special vegetation cover, and other measures to reduce erosion and
sediment.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
VARIANCES
§ 153.180  CONDITIONS FOR AUTHORIZING A VARIANCE.
   The Commission may authorize a variance from these regulations when, in its
opinion undue hardship will result from requiring strict compliance. A variance
includes an adjustment, offset, credit or waiver of any dedication,
construction, or payment requirements where the requirement places an
unreasonable burden on the development or does not bear a rough proportionality
to the requirements necessary to serve the development. In granting a variance,
the Commission may prescribe conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable
in the public interest. In making the findings required in this subchapter, the
Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of the land
involved, existing uses of land in the vicinity, the number of persons who will
reside or work in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of such
variance upon traffic conditions and upon the public health, safety,
convenience and welfare in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted unless
the Commission finds:
   (A)   The requirement places an unreasonable burden on the development and
does not bear a rough proportionality to the requirements necessary to serve
the development; or
   (B)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land
such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the developer of the reasonable use of his or her land; and that the
variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial
property right of the developer; and that the granting of the variance will not
be detrimental to the public health, safety or welfare, or injurious to other
property in the area; and that the granting of the variance will not have the
effect of preventing the orderly subdivision of other land in the area in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.181  FINDINGS IN OFFICIAL MINUTES.
   Such findings of the Commission, together with the specific facts upon which
such findings are based, shall be incorporated into the official minutes of the
Commission meetings at which such variance is granted. Variances may be granted
only when in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter so
that the public health, safety and welfare may be secured and substantial
justice done. Pecuniary hardship to the developer, standing alone, shall not be
deemed to constitute undue hardship.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.182  STREETS IN EXTRATERRITORIAL JURISDICTION.
   The Commission may authorize the construction of county specification
streets within the extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) if it finds:
   (A)   The area in question is not included in the town’s current annexation
plan;
   (B)   The Commission has no reasonable expectation of adding the area in
question to the annexation plan;
   (C)   The town finds county specification streets adequate for the
anticipated traffic load; and
   (D)   The town finds the drainage plan for the area in question adequate to
protect the surrounding properties.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
ADDITIONAL DEFINITIONS, REGULATIONS AND FEES
§ 153.190  ADOPTION OF ADDITIONAL SUBDIVISION DEFINITIONS, REGULATIONS, AND
FEES.
   The additional subdivision definitions, regulations, and fees set forth in
Appendix A hereto, numbered 1.1.1 through 4.2.9, are hereby adopted and
incorporated herein.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
§ 153.999  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and, upon conviction shall be fined an amount not exceeding $500.
Each day that such violation continues shall be a separate offense. Prosecution
or conviction under this provision shall never be a bar to any other remedy or
relief for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
APPENDIX A:  ADDITIONAL SUBDIVISION DEFINITIONS, REGULATIONS AND FEES
SECTION 1 - GENERAL
1.1  General Information
   
1.1.1   Opening Statement
   
1.1.2   City
   
1.1.3   Growth
   
1.1.4   Annexation
   
1.1.5   Zoning
   
1.1.6   Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
   
1.1.7   Subdivisions
   
1.1.8   Plats
   
1.1.9   Plans
   
1.1.10   Agreements
   
1.1.11   Development and Building Additional Information
1.2  Overview
   
1.2.1   Purpose
   
1.2.2   Applicability of Chapter
   
1.2.3   Definitions
   
1.2.4   Fees
   
1.2.5   Timetables
   
1.2.6   Required Copies
   
1.2.7   Subdivider’s Checklist
1.3  Platting Process
   
1.3.1   Plat Consultation
   
1.3.2   Filing with the City and County
SECTION 2 - PLATTING
2.1  General Plat Information
   
2.1.1   Conformance of Plat Approval Application
   
2.1.2   Flooding
   
2.1.3   Rights-of-Way and Easements
   
2.1.4   Wetlands
   
2.1.5   Erosion Control
   
2.1.6   Antiquities
   
2.1.7   Other Regulations
   
2.1.8   Utility Installation
   
2.1.9   Public Improvements
   
2.1.10   Parks, Schools, and Playgrounds
   
2.1.11   Other Monetary Obligations
2.2  Lots and Blocks
   
2.2.1   Block Lengths
   
2.2.2   Lot Dimensions
   
2.2.3   Building Setback Lines
2.3  Preliminary Plats
   
2.3.1   Plat Information
   
2.3.2   Effect of Approval
   
2.3.3   Expiration of Plat
2.4  Final Plats
   
2.4.1   Plat Submission
   
2.4.2   Plat Information
   
2.4.3   Plat Approval
   
2.4.4   Approval by Sections (Phases)
   
2.4.5   Refusal of Approval for Inadequate Infrastructure
2.5  Replats
   
2.5.1   Replats
   
2.5.2   Minor Replats
2.6  Amending Plats
   
2.6.1   Plat Corrections
2.7  Vacating Plats
   
2.7.1   Plat Vacations
SECTION 3 - PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (PLANS)
3.1  General
   
3.1.1   General
   
3.1.2   Variations and Modifications
   
3.1.3   North Central Texas Council of Governments Specifications
   
3.1.4   Subdivider/Developer Agreements
   
3.1.5   Comprehensive Plan
   
3.1.6   Subdivider Plan Requirements
3.2  Site Grading
   
3.2.1   General Design
   
3.2.2   Finished Floors (Pad Sites)
   
3.2.3   Amenities
3.3  Drainage
   
3.3.1   General Design
   
3.3.2   EPA Stormwater Permit
   
3.3.3   Design Methods
   
3.3.4   Design Frequencies, Intensities and Duration
   
3.3.5   Sizes and Capacities
   
3.3.6   Time of Concentration
   
3.3.7   Runoff Coefficients
   
3.3.8   Discharges and Velocities
   
3.3.9   Pipe Materials
   
3.3.10   Inlets
   
3.3.11   Outflow Structures
   
3.3.12   Open Channel Flow
   
3.3.13   Off-site Drainage
   
3.3.14   Bridges and Culverts
   
3.3.15   Detention and Retention Ponds
3.4  Water
   
3.4.1   General Design
   
3.4.2   Impact Fees
   
3.4.3   Minimum Sizes
   
3.4.4   Looped System
   
3.4.5   Materials
   
3.4.6   Minimum Cover
   
3.4.7   Horizontal Geometry
   
3.4.8   Vertical Geometry
   
3.4.9   Valves
   
3.4.10   Fire Hydrants and Fire Lanes
   
3.4.11   Blocking
3.5  Sewer
   
3.5.1   General Design
   
3.5.2   Minimum Sizes
   
3.5.3   Materials
   
3.5.4   Minimum Depths and Cover
   
3.5.5   Horizontal Design
   
3.5.6   Crossings
   
3.5.7   Bedding and Encasement
   
3.5.8   Minimum and Maximum Grades
   
3.5.9   Manhole and Cleanout Requirements
   
3.5.10   Infiltration
   
3.5.11   Drop Manholes
   
3.5.12   Service Laterals
3.6  Streets
   
3.6.1   General Design
   
3.6.2   TxDOT Controlled Highways
   
3.6.3   Traffic Impact Studies
   
3.6.4   Street Classifications
   
3.6.5   Pavement Section
   
3.6.6   Street Arrangement
   
3.6.7   Street Intersections
   
3.6.8   Horizontal Curves
   
3.6.9   Vertical Grades and Curves
   
3.6.10   Street Cross Slopes
   
3.6.11   Street Drainage
   
3.6.12   Sight Triangles
   
3.6.13   Street Connections with Adjacent Subdivisions
   
3.6.14   Provisions for Future Resubdivision
   
3.6.15   Dead-end Streets
   
3.6.16   Reserve Strips
   
3.6.17   Alleys
   
3.6.18   Utility Easements
   
3.6.19   Curb Radii
   
3.6.20   Street Lighting and Signs
   
3.6.21   ADA Access and Sidewalks
   
3.6.22   Fire Lanes
   
3.6.23   Speed Bumps
SECTION 4 - CHECKLISTS AND EXAMPLES
4.1  Checklists
   
4.1.1   Preliminary Plats
   
4.1.2   Final Plats
4.2  Examples
   
4.2.1   Owner’s Certification and Dedication – Corporation
   
4.2.2   Owner’s Certification and Dedication – Individual
   
4.2.3   Surveyor’s Certification
   
4.2.4   City Preliminary Plat Approval Block
   
4.2.5   City Final Plat Approval Block
   
4.2.6   Notary Block
   
4.2.7   Lienholder Statement
   
4.2.8   Flood Hazard Statement
   
4.2.9   General Notes
SECTION 1 - GENERAL
1.1  General Information
1.1.1  Opening Statement.
   Any person subdividing or developing land shall be responsible for obtaining
legal approval and recording of the subdivision. The subdivider/developer shall
also be responsible for installing all improvements necessary to provide
access, utilities and protection to the owners, future owners and the public.
1.1.2  City.
   The Town of Lakeside is a Type A, General Law City in the State of Texas. A
general law city is one that is less than 5,000 in population and is therefore
not eligible to have a Home Rule charter. The City is a legal incorporation of
the State of Texas (with defined geographical city limits) and is thereby bound
by the state laws applicable to such cities. For the purpose of this
subdivision ordinance, most of the relevant state statutes are codified in the
Local Government Code. A Mayor and City Council govern the City.
1.1.3  Growth.
   In general, most cities grow over time. Therefore, the State provides
procedures by which a City can expand its boundaries and regulate development
to provide for orderly growth. Such procedures include annexation, zoning and
platting. These procedures allow for the consistent and adequate extension of
public facilities such as roads, utilities, drainageways, parks, etc.
1.1.4  Annexation.
   The process of Annexation expands the exterior boundaries of the city.
Properties adjacent to the current City may be annexed into the city limits by
voluntary petition followed by the formal annexation process. In limited cases,
land may be annexed involuntarily. Often, City services are not offered to
areas that have not been annexed. Therefore, such areas desiring city services
shall be required to annex (if adjacent to the existing city limits) prior to
platting.
1.1.5  Zoning.
   The State and most cities recognize that orderly growth includes the
grouping of certain uses in common areas and the buffering from one use to the
next. This helps prevent busy, noisy or other objectionable uses from being
constructed next to quiet residential areas. It also encourages high use
facilities (high traffic, large utility use, etc.) to be grouped where there is
access to adequate infrastructure facilities. The City regulations for Zoning
are contained in the Zoning Ordinance for the Town of Lakeside, latest
revision. Zoning is enforced within the City Limits but not in the ETJ.
1.1.6  Extraterritorial Jurisdiction.
   Since the planning for growth includes areas not currently in the city, the
state allows each city a buffer zone in which they can control platting outside
of their city limits. This buffer is called Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
(ETJ). The City has platting control within its ETJ, but not zoning control.
The ETJ width is determined by the State based on a city's population. The
current ETJ extension of Lakeside is one-half (1/2) mile from the city limits.
   In addition, the ETJ allows for an orderly process when two cities start to
grow together. By ETJ agreements, cities can allocate potential overlap areas
among the affected cities.
1.1.7  Subdivisions.
   Whether inside the city limits or in the ETJ, larger tracts of land are
divided into smaller tracts to accommodate growth and development. Any time a
piece of land is divided into two or more tracts, the process is called
subdivision and the resulting tracts are in that subdivision. In reality the
process of creating a subdivision involves more than just dividing the land. It
also usually means the extension of infrastructure.
1.1.8  Plats.
   In most cases, the platting process performs the subdivision of land.
Platting generates a map showing the proposed legal areas (lots and blocks) to
be created, as well as the provisions for providing infrastructure to each lot.
The Final Plat is a legal document that is filed with the County Clerk for
public record. Among other things, the plat demonstrates that the owner of the
property is subdividing, that the boundary subdivision was performed by a
licensed and registered Texas surveyor, that the subdivider and any lienholders
are dedicating certain areas for public infrastructure use, that there are no
taxes owed on the land, and that various governmental entities have approved
the plat. Once filed with the County in the Plat records of Tarrant County, the
plat will be legally referred to by subdivision name, plat cabinet number and
slide number.
1.1.9  Plans.
   If any public improvements are to be extended to accommodate the subdivision
(either internal to the subdivision or external) then construction plans will
be required for the public improvements (water, sewer, streets, drainage,
etc.). In general, plans will include a cover sheet with index, general site
layout, plan and profile views of the improvements, required calculations and
quantity tables, details and standard details, and any other sheets required to
satisfactorily convey the location, adequacy and construction of the project.
The infrastructure plans shall be prepared by a Texas registered civil
engineer.
1.1.10  Agreements.
   In most instances, agreements will need to be signed in conjunction with the
final plat and plan approval. These agreements cover the work to be performed
and paid by the developer, any participation by the City (and why), other
covenants, and bonds or surety to assure completion and final payment for the
project.
1.1.11  Development and Building Additional Information.
   Additional summary information regarding specific items is given on the
following pages. (The following codes are used here: S = Staff review, PZ =
Meetings and action by P&Z, PH = Public hearings, CC = Meetings and action by
City Council, BOA = Meetings and action by BOA, P = permits or fees required, I
= Inspections required.)
1.2  Overview
1.2.1  Purpose.
   The Town of Lakeside Planning and Zoning Commission (hereafter referred to
as “P&Z”) has performed a careful study and formulated the rules and
regulations as set forth herein. The P&Z studied the existing local conditions
and the desirable features of modern subdivision planning principles as
followed by other progressive cities in this state and this general region. It
is not the desire, nor the intent, of the City Council or the P&Z to regiment
the design of subdivisions of property in the city and its environs, but rather
to recommend the utilization, to the fullest possible extent, of good, sound,
modern subdivision planning principles. It is intended that as much freedom as
possible be allowed the individual owners and subdividers in the design and
ultimate development of the new subdivisions so that they will:
   (1)   Contribute to the community new residential neighborhoods and
commercial areas with individuality and character,
   (2)   Provide for sufficient and adequate major and secondary traffic
thoroughfares, public utilities, parks and playgrounds, and
   (3)   Meet the provisions of the zoning ordinance, which is designed and
intended to stabilize and protect the established pattern of the best land
usage of all property within the city as it grows.
1.2.2  Applicability of Chapter.
   A person desiring to sell off a portion (or portions) of a tract of land
shall not do so until the land has been properly subdivided and recorded. Such
subdivision shall be done by formal plat, unless:
   1.   The land in question is and will remain in use for agricultural
purposes only, and
   2.   No portion is less than five (5) acres, and
   3.   The division does not require the extension or development of roadway,
public infrastructure or easements.
   To affect a plat, the owner thereof (or his legally authorized agent) shall
apply in writing to the City for approval of such land division following the
procedures described herein. The city building inspector shall not grant a
request for the erection of a structure until the plat process is completed.
1.2.3  Definitions.
   Access - Frontage to an approved public street or roadway.
   Agricultural Land - Land used exclusively for agricultural use and which
carries a valid taxing agricultural exemption.
   Alley - A minor public right-of-way, to provide auxiliary access to the back
of lots and not intended to provide the primary means of access to such lots.
   Amending Plat - A plat intended to correct minor errors only as allowed by
Texas Local Government Code 212.016. Does not require the approval of all
property owners. Such amendments (corrections) shall meet the criteria
established herein. The City Council may delegate and designate a staff member
to approve such plats.
   Applicant - The owner(s) of land, or legally designated representative of
the owner(s), desiring to subdivide land. As used herein, the terms “owner”,
“developer”, or “subdivider” shall all mean the applicant.
   Approved - Having approval of the appropriate authorities of the City as
defined herein.
   Block - Large section of land bounded by streets, property outside of the
subdivision or natural features. Blocks are subdivided into buildable “lots”.
Blocks are uniquely numbered on the plat.
   Building Setback Line - The line within a lot/tract defining the minimum
distance between a building and the adjacent property line as provided in the
Zoning Ordinance. Applicable to plats within the City Limits.
   City - The Town of Lakeside, Texas.
   City Council - The governing body of the City and the authority responsible
for the final approval of Final Plats and Replats (except minor (re)plats and
some amending plats).
   City Engineer - Engineer hired or appointed by the City to perform city
engineering functions, including the review of plats.
   Comprehensive Plan - The state mandated plan created and periodically
updated by the City for the promotion of orderly and planned growth/expansion.
The Comprehensive Plan includes the Thoroughfare plan, Water and Sewer Master
plans, Park Plans and other long-range plans.
   Cul-de-sac - A street having but one outlet to another street, and
terminated on the opposite end by a vehicular turnaround.
   Dedication - A gift or donation of property or interest in property by the
owner to the public.
   Easement - Land owned by the specific property owner but granted for a the
[sic] allowance of a specific use to the City, public or utility. The lot owner
is allowed to utilize such land “at risk”, meaning that any permanent
improvements placed on the easement by the land owner may be removed by the
easement holder. The easements are granted by legal document. When granted as a
part of the platting process, notations on the plat make the conveyance.
   Engineer - A person duly authorized to practice the profession of
engineering (P.E.) in the State of Texas, as stipulated by the current
amendments of the Texas Engineering Registration Act. If the total value of all
infrastructure which is to be public, or which is to be connected to public
infrastructure, exceeds $8,000 in gross value, the design of such
infrastructure by an appropriate engineer(s) for the particular specialties
involved is required. If the value of the gross improvements is unknown, or is
questionable, then an engineering design will also be required. In addition,
certain improvements, regardless of value, may require appropriate engineering
design.
   Extraterritorial Jurisdiction (ETJ) - The ETJ is the area within one-half
mile of the exterior of the existing Town of Lakeside City Limits. The City has
Subdivision jurisdiction within the ETJ but not Zoning jurisdiction. Plats in
the ETJ also require secondary approval by the County Commissioners Court.
   Final Plat - The official permanent record of the division of land, approved
by the appropriate bodies and recorded in the Plat Records of Tarrant County in
compliance with the requirements of this ordinance and State law.
   Infrastructure - Facilities needed to sustain buildable land. Infrastructure
includes, but is not limited to, streets, water, sewer, parks, other utilities,
and public facilities.
   Lot - An undivided tract or parcel of land having frontage on a public
street or private access easement or private drive and which is, or may be,
offered for sale, conveyance, transfer or improvement which is designated as a
distinct and separate tract and which is identified by a tract or lot number or
symbol in a duly approved subdivision plat which has been properly filed of
record[.]
   Minor (Re)Plat (Also known as an “Administrative (Re)Plat” or “Short Form
(Re)Plat”) - A plat allowed by Texas Local Government Code 212.0065. For such
plats the Council has authorized City Staff to affect without the need for
approval by P&Z or City Council so long as the following conditions shall be
met:
      1.   Involves less than four (4) residential lots, and
      2.   Involves less than five (5) total acres, and
      3.   Comprises the whole area to be platted (i.e., cannot be phased),
unless the area is a replat, and
      4.   Be applied for, and agreed to, by all affected property owners, and
      5.   Requires no additional public improvements, including access, and
      6.   Resulting lots meet the requirements of established City criteria.
If all of these conditions cannot be met, then the (re)plat must go through the
normal platting procedure.
   Owner - The person, or other entity, having legal ownership of real property
and is ultimately responsible for platting.
   Planner - The City employee or representative in charge of the planning
function for the City and assists with the implementation and enforcement of
the subdivision, zoning, and other growth-related ordinances.
   Planning and Zoning Commission (P&Z) - The Planning and Zoning Commission
(P&Z) of the City that acts as a recommending body to the City Council. The P&Z
is responsible for recommending subdivision and zoning ordinance changes to the
City Council and to screen applications to be sure that they meet the
established ordinances before going to City Council for approval. Such
authority is stipulated in the Local Government Code and other Texas Statutes.
The P&Z shall be the final judge in all cases regarding the application of the
rules and regulations of this ordinance. Officers of the P&Z will always freely
give advice and cooperation. (Compare to BOA.)
   Plat Administrator - The person designated by the City to receive and
process submissions made pursuant to this Ordinance and to enforce the terms
thereof. This is typically the Town Administrator for Lakeside.
   Plat Revision (or Replat) - A revision of existing platted and approved lot
lines for the purpose of relocating one or more lot lines between one or more
adjacent lots when the owner or owners of such lots join in the application for
revision.
   Preliminary Plat - A working document normally precedent to a final plat,
containing all planning factors deemed necessary by this Ordinance, or by the
platting authority, to determine the appropriate subdivision of land and the
requirements for extension of utilities, roadways, and other public
improvements.
   Right-of-Way - Land conveyed by plat, or other legal instrument, to the
public ownership and use for roadways, utilities and other public improvements.
Land dedicated as right-of-way shall be owned by the City, whereas land
dedicated by easement is owned by the individual landowner with a right of use
given to the City.
   Shall, May - The word “shall” is always mandatory. The word “may” is merely
“permissive”.
   Subdivider - Any owner, equitable owner, or authorized agent thereof,
dividing or proposing to divide land so as to constitute a subdivision.
   Subdivision (noun) - A tract or parcel of land that has been divided into
two or more pieces for sale or development which has been properly platted,
approved and filed and for which required public rights-of-way, easements and
parcels have been dedicated and public improvements (streets, drainage, water,
sewer, etc.) installed.
   Subdivision (verb) - The act of dividing any tract or parcel of land located
all, or in part, in the City limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction (ETJ) of
the City into two (2) or more parts as described herein.
   Surveyor - Any person currently certified as a Registered Public Land
Surveyor (R.P.L.S.), or approved equal, by the Texas Board of Land Surveying.
All legal boundaries, metes and bounds descriptions, and existing topography
shown on plats must be surveyed, drawn and sealed by an appropriate surveyor.
   Vacating Plat - A plat used to rescind or make invalid a prior plat. Must
conform to the criteria described herein.
   BOA - The Board of Adjustment (BOA) is the judicial branch of the City with
regards to zoning issues. Items which do not comply with zoning criteria can be
appealed to the (BOA). Any appeal of a BOA decision must go to District Court.
   Zoning - Regulations defined by separate ordinance designed to
      (1)   lessen congestion in the streets,
      (2)   secure safety from fire, panic, and other dangers
      (3)   promote health and general welfare,
      (4)   provide adequate light and air,
      (5)   prevent the overcrowding of land,
      (6)   avoid undue concentration of population, and
      (7)   facilitate the adequate provision of transportation, water, sewers,
schools, parks and other public requirements.
1.2.4  Fees.
 
Preliminary Plat $300*
Final Plat       $350*
Replat, Regular  $250*
Replat, Minor    $250*
Amending Plat    $250*
Vacating Plat    $250*
*The applicant is additionally responsible for payment of legal and
engineering fees incurred by the City in connection with the processing of the
application.
 
1.2.5  Timetables.
   At the time of the writing of this ordinance, the P&Z of the Town of
Lakeside meet on the third Monday of each month. The City Council meets on the
second Thursday of each month. (Such dates are subject to change by the City
Council and need to be verified by the plat applicant.) Plat submissions must
be filed at least 21 days prior to the relevant P&Z or Council meeting to allow
adequate advertising of such agenda items and public notice of any related
public hearings.
1.2.6  Required Copies.
   When filed with the Plat Administrator, the following number of copies will
be required to facilitate review by the P&Z and the City Council:
 
                         18" x 24" Paper  24" x 34" Paper  11"x
Document       18" x 24" (Blueline,       (Blueline,       17"Photocopy
               Mylars    Blackline or     Blackline, or    Ready
                         Photocopy)       Photocopy)
Preliminary    2 signed  2 copies                          1 original and
Plat           originals                                   15 copies
Final Plat     2 signed  2 copies                          1 original and
               originals                                   15 copies
Plans                                     3 executed       1 original
                                          copies
Replat         2 signed  2 copies                          1 original and
               originals                                   15 copies
Record Drawing
Plans (after                              1 executed mylar
approved                                  original and 2
completion of                             copies
public
improvements)
 
1.2.7  Subdivider’s Checklist.
   For the convenience of the Subdivider, checklists have been included in the
Appendices to these rules and regulations to assist in making sure all aspects
of the plats and plans have been attended to prior to submittal to the City for
formal approval.
1.3  Platting Process
1.3.1  Plat Consultation.
   It is required that each owner or subdivider of land first confer with the
Town of Lakeside Plat Administrator before preparing the preliminary plat of
the proposed subdivision and secure a copy of the rules and regulations
governing subdivisions and plats. This is so that they may become thoroughly
familiar with subdivision requirements and policies of the City. Once the owner
or subdivider has formulated a definitive concept plan, a meeting will be set
up with various members of city staff (and possibly utility officials, TxDOT
officials and up to 2 P&Z members) to review the concept and provide input
prior to the creation of a formal preliminary plat (or final plat, in those
instances where a preliminary is not required).
1.3.2  Filing with the City and County.
   A preliminary plat, final plat or replat shall not be considered “Filed”"
with the City until ALL of the following have successfully transpired:
 
                               The Subdivider shall begin the process
                               by scheduling a meeting with the City
                               Staff members responsible for review.
                               Such meeting shall be scheduled with the
                               Town Secretary, who will then be
                               responsible for coordinating a time with
                               the Subdivider, other City review staff,
Plat Consultation              utility companies, TxDOT, P&Z members
                               (up to 2), and others, as needed.
                               Subdivider shall bring any deeds, maps,
                               preliminary plans and design ideas for
                               water, sewer, drainage, streets, etc. to
                               the meeting. The Plat Administrator and
                               staff will also go over the subdivision
                               and building processes and requirements
                               with the Subdivider.
                               Plats (and Plans if a final Plat) have
                               been reviewed by City Staff and City
Staff Review                   Engineer and checked for accuracy and
                               completeness. Staff will generate
                               comments and markups.
Corrections Made               Subdivider has completed corrections
                               noted by City Staff and City Engineer.
                               Subdivider has provided the Plat
                               Administrator with any auxiliary
Supporting Documents Filed     paperwork or certifications required
                               including project plans for the public
                               improvements.
City Fees Paid                 The appropriate plat fees have been paid
                               to the City.
                               For final plats, any required
Auxiliary Agreements and Bonds developer's agreements, bonds, tax
Completed                      certificates and plan approvals have
                               been completed and executed.
                               Subdivider has made sure the proper
                               number of copies (signed by the owner
                               (s), surveyor, engineer and notaries)
                               have been provided to the Plat
                               Administrator along with an application.
Partially Executed Plat Filed  To be considered, all signatures and
                               certifications (except for city staff
                               and officials) must be complete on the
                               mylar (reproducible copy). Unsigned
                               plats cannot be accepted for P&Z or
                               Council action.
 
   Once properly filed with the City, the City Council has 30 days in which to
take action on a Final Plat. Actions may include approval, denial, or mutually
agreed delays to accommodate requested revisions.
   The City shall file final, minor, amending or vacating plats with the County
Clerk after formal City approval and acceptance. The County Clerk shall assign
volume, page and plat cabinet recording information to make the plat legally
binding.
SECTION 2 - PLATTING
2.1  General Plat Information
2.1.1  Conformance of Plat Approval Application.
   The application of the Applicant for plat approval shall conform to the
specifications outlined in this ordinance.
2.1.2  Flooding.
   Land subject to flooding, as designated in a FEMA 100-year floodplain, shall
not be platted for residential occupancy (unless the floodplain is
appropriately modified by the applicant), nor shall it be platted for such
other uses as may increase danger to health, life or property or aggravate the
flood hazard. A Flood Hazard Statement meeting the requirements of the FIA is
required on the plat. (See Flood Hazard Block in the appendices.)
   Such land within the plat may be set aside for such uses that will not be
endangered by periodical or occasional inundation, or that will not produce
unsatisfactory living conditions.
2.1.3  Rights-of-Way and Easements.
   All public improvements (such as streets, utilities, parks or major drainage
conveyance areas) shall be installed in either right-of-ways or easements owned
by or conveyed to the City. Each lot within a subdivision shall abut right-of-
ways and easement adequate to serve the lot. As a minimum, all lots shall have
a ten (10) foot general utility easement along the front and back lot lines and
any side that is adjacent to a street. All other side lot lines shall have a
five (5) foot general utility easement on each side of the common lot line (ten
(10) feet total). Easements shall be larger when special conditions warrant.
All natural drainageways shall be in a drainage easement up to the 100-year
flood return elevation. Any drainage piping that is to be dedicated and
maintained by the City (i.e., serves more than one lot) shall be in an easement
with a minimum width of the structure (i.e., pipe diameter or box width) plus
twelve (12) feet (i.e., a 36-inch diameter pipe would require a minimum of
fifteen (15) feet of easement width). Each lot of a subdivision shall abut a
public street in dedicated right-of-way of the width specified for the
appropriate street classification in section 3.6. Where possible, sewers shall
be placed in the general utility easements along the periphery of lots. In
instances where the design conditions do not allow such placement, the sewer
shall be placed in an additional easement that is minimum of ten (10) feet
wide. All other parks and public places shall be dedicated to the City as
either right-of-way or lots. City public buildings and parking shall be on
dedicated public property or other property owned by the City.
   In areas where multiple lots will share a driveway or fire lane, such areas
shall be included in a dedicated access easement to the City, and any
additional needed cross access agreements among the multi-tenant owners, shall
be required to be filed with the plat.
2.1.4  Wetlands.
   Certain areas of property that stay wet and have certain flora and fauna, as
well as certain designated streams, are considered wetlands and are therefore
"waters of the U.S.". Development of these areas must be approved and permitted
through the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. Failure to acquire such approval and
permit can lead to fines levied against the property owner. Attempting to plat
such areas for incompatible uses or improvements can be grounds for plat
denial.
2.1.5  Erosion Control.
   The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the Texas Natural
Resource Conservation Commission (TCEQ) have regulations restricting the amount
of soil and other materials (erosion) that can be carried unintentionally from
a project site. Such regulations restrict the amount of erosion materials that
can wash onto neighboring property, wash into drainage facilities and/or be
dropped by vehicles onto roadways. As such, property owners are required to
obtain an erosion control permit by submitting a stormwater pollution
protection plan (SWPPP). The permit requires mechanical measures to prevent the
various types of erosion pollution.
2.1.6  Antiquities.
   Property owners should also be aware that the Texas Historical Commission
(among others) monitors development that may affect historical sites or
antiquities. It is up to the property owner to be sure such regulations are
complied with.
2.1.7  Other Regulations.
   The items above denote a number of the most common state and federal
regulations encountered by developers. The list is by no means exhaustive and
property owners and contractors shall be required to follow all relevant
regulations.
2.1.8  Utility Installation.
   a.   Definitions. The following terms, as used in this section, shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this subsection:
      Utility means a company providing electrical, telephone, cable
television, or cable- or wire-based data transmission services within the City.
      Transmission line means an electrical line operated at a nominal voltage
of 60,000 volts or higher that brings electricity from a generating plant to an
electrical substation.
      Feeder line means an electrical line that emanates from an electrical
substation or hub for distribution throughout a local area.
      Lateral line means an electrical line that emanates from a feeder line
and is used for distribution to smaller areas of consumers, and is usually
connected to a feeder line through a sectionalizing device such as a fuse or
disconnection switch.
      Service line means an electrical line which, through a transformer,
supplies electricity to a customer’s service entrance.
   b.   Undergrounding required.
      (1)   All electric lateral and service lines throughout the interior of
new residential subdivisions shall be placed underground and in dedicated
easements. This provision does not require the underground installation of
transmission lines or of feeder lines placed along the perimeter of a
subdivision.
      (2)   Wherever electric lateral and service lines are required to be
placed underground, lines carrying telephone service, data transmission, cable
television, and street lighting shall also be placed underground.
      (3)   All electrical, telephone, data transmission, or cable television
support equipment necessary for underground installation, including
transformers, amplifiers, switching devices, etc., shall be pedestal- or pad-
mounted, or shall placed underground.
   c.   Owner to bear cost.
      (1)   The owner of property for which this section requires utility
facilities to be placed underground shall arrange to reimburse the utility
company for the difference in cost between the installation of such service and
the installation of equivalent overhead service in accordance with the
provisions of the utility's tariff, if any.
      (2)   No utility shall be required to begin construction of underground
facilities unless and until the owner has made arrangements satisfactory to the
utility company for the payment of the difference between the cost of overhead
facilities and underground facilities.
   d.   Exceptions to undergrounding requirement.
      (1)   Temporary service during construction may be provided by overhead
utility lines and facilities prior to activation of the underground service.
Following activation of the underground permanent service, the temporary
overhead service shall be removed within 45 days.
      (2)   Nothing in this section 2.1.8 shall be construed to require any
existing overhead facilities to be placed underground or to prohibit the
upgrading, reconstruction or reconductoring of any existing overhead facilities
with overhead construction.
   e.   Variances. In special or unique circumstances or to avoid undue
hardship, the City Council, after receiving the recommendation of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, may authorize a variance to the underground utilities
requirements of this section.
2.1.9  Public Improvements.
   All land subdividers and developers shall on all new subdivisions of land in
the City, or its ETJ, adhere to and be governed by the policies that are
specified in this ordinance for the provision, construction and placement of
street improvements, drainage structures, alleys or easements, utilities and
parks and playgrounds.
   The developer shall be required to install or furnish all drainage
facilities, water lines, sewer lines, street signs, electrical lines, gas
lines, easements and other public facilities required for the development of
the platted area. There will be no participation by the City in improvements
cost unless such is determined by the City.
2.1.10  Parks, Schools, and Playgrounds.
   Sites suitable for parks, schools, playgrounds or other public usage, as
required by the City, should be carefully considered in collaboration with the
P&Z and so indicated upon the Preliminary Plat. This is done so that these
sites can be checked for conformity with the recommended locations indicated in
the Comprehensive Plan and so that these sites should be in conformity with the
general requirements of the City and in keeping with modern planning
principles. They shall be of adequate size as recommended by the P&Z and as may
be required by the City under its policies and specifications. The P&Z may
require the owner or subdivider to obtain a letter from the appropriate
independent school district stating that provisions for the site of future
schools, if such be required, are adequate. If a school site is not required,
the letter is to so state.
2.1.11  Other Monetary Obligations.
   No subdivision plat shall be finally considered by the City Council unless
and until all taxes, assessments, charges and other monetary obligations due
the Town of Lakeside and outstanding with respect to the property which is the
subject of the subdivision application shall be paid current, including all
penalties, interest and other charges due with respect to same.
   2.2  Lots and Blocks.
2.2.1  Block Lengths.
   Block lengths, generally, should not exceed one thousand (1,000) feet in
length. Should blocks exceed this length, there shall be provided, near the
center of the block, a utility or pedestrian easement or walk at least ten (10)
feet in width.
2.2.2  Lot Dimensions.
   The minimum dimensions of lots in subdivisions shall be established based on
zoning requirements for areas inside the City limits. Such dimensions shall be
given in the latest issue of the Zoning Ordinance. Corner lots shall be
increased in size as necessary to permit any structure placed thereupon to
conform to the building line of each street in accordance with the Zoning
Ordinance requirements. Lots which have frontage on more than two streets are
undesirable and will not be allowed where it possible to avoid them. In
general, side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to street lines.
2.2.3  Building Setback Lines.
   Where applicable, building setback lines shall be shown on all lots.
   2.3  Preliminary Plats
2.3.1  Plat Information.
   The Preliminary Plat shall include or be accompanied by the following
information. The checklist shown in the appendix should be used in conjunction
with the following list to be sure this information has been completely
addressed.
                                   Proposed subdivision name or identifying
Subdivision Name                   title. The proposed name should not be so
                                   similar to that of an existing subdivision
                                   as to cause confusion.
Subdivision Location               The name of the city, county and state, in
                                   which the subdivision is located.
                                   Ownership and recording information for
Adjacent Property                  adjacent unplatted tracts and subdivisions,
                                   including lot information.
Owner/ Subdivider                  Name, address and other contact information
                                   of the record owner/ subdivi der.
                                   Surveyor, engineer, land planner or any
Design Professionals               other designer responsible for the survey
                                   and design. Information shall include name,
                                   address and other contact information.
                                   Location of boundary or property lines;
Legal Property Lines and Limits    width and location of platted streets,
                                   alleys and easements within or adjacent to
                                   the property being subdivided
                                   Present physical features on the land
                                   including natural and artificial
                                   watercourses, ditches, ravines, culverts,
                                   bridges, present structures and any other
Physical Features                  features directly pertinent to the land
                                   being subdivided, location of any existing
                                   utilities and pipelines, showing pipe sizes
                                   and capacities of storm sewers and drainage
                                   structures; outline of any existing wooded
                                   areas or location of individual large trees.
                                   A topographical map shall be superimposed on
                                   all preliminary plats filed with the city.
                                   Contour intervals of such map shall not be
                                   greater than two (2) feet with all
                                   elevations shown thereon tied to the city
Topography/Contours                datum plane or such datum plane of any
                                   public authority that may have established a
                                   datum plane in the city or its
                                   extraterritorial jurisdiction. The plat
                                   shall contain the number of acres of the
                                   proposed subdivision.
                                   The street system design, showing location
                                   and width of the proposed streets,
                                   easements, alleys, building lots and other
                                   features with their relationship to the
                                   streets, alleys and easements in adjacent
                                   subdivisions for a distance of five hundred
                                   (500) feet beyond the limits of the proposed
                                   subdivision. If there are no adjacent
                                   subdivisions thereto, a vicinity or location
Street and Highway Design          map, drawn at a smaller scale, shall be
                                   submitted along with the preliminary plat.
                                   This map is to show the boundaries and
                                   ownership of adjacent properties, the
                                   location and distance to the nearest
                                   subdivisions and the manner in which the
                                   streets alleys, easements and highways of
                                   the proposed subdivision may eventually
                                   connect with those of the nearest existing
                                   subdivisions.
                                   Classification and designation of land
                                   intended to be dedicated to public use, such
Public Land                        as schools, parks, playgrounds, rights-of-
                                   way, easements and any other special uses or
                                   semipublic uses required.
Standard Drawing Details           Date, north arrow and scale of the drawing.
                                   Preferred Scale is 1" = 100'.
                                   Preliminary plans for street improvements,
Preliminary Plans for Improvements on-site or off-site drainage improvements,
                                   alley improvements, sidewalks, and any other
                                   improvements to be made.
                                   Where the preliminary plat submitted for
                                   approval covers only a part, a unit or
                                   increment, of the owner's or subdivider's
                                   entire holding or ultimate subdivision, a
Auxiliary Property                 sketch of the prospective future street
                                   system in the portion submitted for approval
                                   will be considered in the light of
                                   adjustments and connections with the street
                                   systems of the part not submitted.
                                   The plat shall include the City Preliminary
City Approval Block                Plat Approval Block provided in the
                                   appendices to this ordinance.
 
2.3.2  Effect of Approval.
   It is to be understood that the approval of the Preliminary Plat by the P&Z
and the City Council does not constitute official acceptance of the proposed
subdivision by the City, but does constitute an authorization to begin and
proceed with the preparation of the Final Plat. Construction work on the
proposed subdivision shall not begin until the Final Plat has been approved and
accepted in an official action by the P&Z and the City Council and the
instrument recorded in the office of the County Clerk.
2.3.3  Expiration of Plat.
   Approval of the preliminary plat expires at the end of nine (9) months after
the approval date. For a phased subdivision, any part of the preliminary plat
which has not been final platted shall expire after one year from the
completion of the previous phase if a new phase is not started.
2.4  Final Plats
2.4.1  Plat Submission.
   The submittal must include the items and number of copies stipulated herein.
The final plat shall be clearly and legibly drawn on a scale of 1" = 100'. All
figures and letters shown thereon shall be plain, distinct and of sufficient
size that they can be easily read. Should more than one sheet be required for
the layout, there shall be included a key map showing the entire subdivision,
drawn at a smaller scale, with block numbers and street names. This key map is
to be included upon the first sheet or presented separately as a cover sheet
the same size as the large-scale sheet.
2.4.2  Plat Information.
   The final plat shall show or shall be accompanied by the following
information. Please use this list and the checklist in the appendix to generate
a complete submittal.
Subdivision Name                        The subdivision name or identifying
                                        title
Subdivision Location                    The name of the city, county and state
                                        in which the subdivision is located
                                        The name or names of adjacent
                                        subdivisions, names of streets and the
Adjacent Property                       number of lots and blocks. Names of new
                                        streets should, wherever possible,
                                        follow or be extensions of existing
                                        street names
                                        The name, address and other contact
Owner/Subdivider                        information for the record owner or
                                        subdivider
                                        All plats must be prepared and sealed
                                        by a surveyor licensed to practice in
Design Professionals                    the State of Texas. All plans must be
                                        prepared and sealed by a civil engineer
                                        licensed to practice in the State of
                                        Texas.
                                        An accurate boundary survey of the
                                        property which is being subdivided,
                                        showing the bearing and distance of the
                                        sides (which shall be referenced to
                                        original survey lines or established
                                        subdivisions, showing the lines of all
                                        adjacent lands and properties), lines
                                        of adjacent streets, alleys and
                                        easements, including width and name of
                                        each. Streets, alleys and easements of
                                        adjacent subdivisions shall be shown in
                                        a different manner from those of the
Legal Property Lines and Limits         proposed subdivisions, preferably
                                        dotted or dashed. The record plat shall
                                        indicate the location of all lots,
                                        streets, highways, alleys, easements,
                                        parks, playgrounds and such other
                                        features, with accurate dimensions
                                        given in feet and decimals of a foot,
                                        showing the length of radii, deflection
                                        angles and of arcs of all curves.
                                        Tangent distances and tangent bearings
                                        shall be given for each street. All
                                        such data is to be complete and
                                        sufficiently precise to permit accurate
                                        location upon the ground.
                                        Physical features relative to the
                                        property boundary need to be shown
                                        including survey markers, fences and
Physical Features                       roadways. Other features need not be
                                        shown on the Final Plat but will
                                        probably be necessary on any
                                        accompanying design plans.
                                        The Final Plat need not show any
Topography/Contours                     contours. However the FIS Flood Hazard
                                        Statement is Required.
                                        The building lines of front and side
                                        streets shall be shown dotted or
Building Lines, Setbacks and Easements  dashed, and the location of utility
                                        easements shall be shown in dashed
                                        lines.
Sight Triangles                         A 20' sight triangle shall be shown on
                                        each corner of each intersection.
                                        The Final Plat needs to only show
Street and Highway Design               street right-of-ways. Other street
                                        information will be required in the
                                        plans.
                                        The Final Plat should include a lot
                                        table showing the lot/block designation
Land Use Classifications (Zoning)       of each lot, the acreage and square
                                        feet of each lot and the zoning of each
                                        lot.
Standard Drawing Details                Date, scale and north point.
                                        Blanks for certificate of approval to
                                        be filled out by the City engineer,
City Approval Blocks                    P&Z, City Council (and county
                                        commissioners court, if in the ETJ)
                                        shall be included on the final plat.
                                        (See appendices)
                                        The plat shall bear a properly executed
                                        dedication of all streets, highways,
                                        alleys, parks, playgrounds and other
                                        lands intended for use of the public,
                                        such dedicatory instrument to be signed
                                        by the owner or owners, and by all
Public Dedication Block                 other persons or parties having a
                                        mortgage or lien interest in the
                                        property. (See appendices for standard
                                        signature blocks.) Any private
                                        restrictions or trusteeships intended
                                        shall be filed with the plat if not
                                        actually shown on the plat.
                                        The surveyor or engineer responsible
                                        for surveying the subdivision shall
                                        attest to the accuracy of same
                                        utilizing the Surveyors Block. (See
                                        appendices.) The Surveyor shall verify
                                        or set at all corners and angle points
                                        of the boundaries of the original tract
                                        to be subdivided and set all street
                                        intersections, angle points in street
Surveyor Certification to survey on the lines, points of curve and at such
ground and setting of control           intermediate points as shall be
                                        required by the City. All lot corners
                                        are also to be marked with iron markers
                                        driven firmly into the solid earth.
                                        Such monuments shall be iron bars not
                                        less than one-half (1/2) inch in
                                        diameter and two (2) feet in length,
                                        driven securely into the solid earth
                                        with the top being flush with the
                                        natural earth grade. The use of survey
                                        caps is recommended.
                                        If there is (are) lienholder(s) on the
Lienholder Certification                property, the Lienholder Signature
                                        Block shall be included on the plat and
                                        signed by all lienholders.
                                        Complete construction plans shall be
                                        submitted for all street and drainage
                                        improvements, alleys, and any other
                                        improvements to be performed. These
                                        plans including shall be submitted on
                                        standard twenty-four-inch by thirty-
                                        six-inch sheets. Street, alley, and
                                        drainage plans shall be presented on
                                        plan-profile sheets and plotted to
                                        scale of 1"=40' or 1"=100' horizontal,
                                        and one 1"=4' or 1"=10' vertical. The
                                        plan portion of these shall show the
                                        right-of-way or easement lines and
Final Plans for Improvements including  portions of the right-of-way of
Engineering Seal                        intersecting streets. The street
                                        profiles shall show the existing
                                        ground, proposed ground and profiles
                                        for the streets and underground
                                        utilities. Typical cross sections shall
                                        be shown for the streets showing the
                                        type and width of pavement proposed for
                                        the streets. Detailed plans shall be
                                        submitted for any bridges, culverts,
                                        catch basins, any other drainage
                                        structures or any other improvements to
                                        be made. Design standards of the City
                                        in effect at the time of submission of
                                        the plat shall be used, subject to the
                                        approval of the City Engineer.
                                        A receipt indicating that all taxes
                                        have been paid shall accompany the
Taxes Paid Receipt                      plat, or the plat shall bear a
                                        certificate of the owner that all taxes
                                        have been paid.
                                        After approval of the plat by the P&Z,
                                        one signed mylar and one signed
                                        blueline copy of the plat shall be
                                        furnished to the P&Z. All figures,
Record Mylars                           letters and symbols shown upon the
                                        drawing shall be plain, distinct, of
                                        sufficient size that they may be easily
                                        read and of such density that they will
                                        remain a permanent and lasting record.
                                        After all improvements required by the
                                        city have been completed by the owner
                                        or subdivider of the proposed
                                        subdivision, the owner or subdivider
                                        shall furnish one set of as-built
Record Plan Drawings (As-Builts)        drawings of drainage structures and
                                        street improvements that have been
                                        constructed, the same to be filed
                                        within thirty (30) days after
                                        completion of all required
                                        improvements.
 
2.4.3  Plat Approval.
   The following conditions shall be met for plat approval:
 
                                   The developer, prior to final approval of a
                                   plat, shall take bids on all required
                                   improvements and installations and
                                   tabulations to the city along with bids of
                                   his choice. Each bid shall be accompanied
Bid Project and execute developer  by a performance bond, payment bond and two
agreement and bonds with the City. (2) year maintenance bond. The developer
                                   shall furnish the City a developer
                                   agreement and escrow with the city a cash
                                   deposit to cover all contract cost plus 0.2
                                   (2/10%) percent of total cost for
                                   inspection fees.
                                   The City shall record the plat in the
File Plat with County              office of the County Clerk within three
                                   weeks of all approval conditions being met.
 
   No Building Permits shall be issued for any lot in the subdivision, or any
lots sold, until the following condition is complied with. The only exception
shall be that residential home builders can start “model homes” which are not
for immediate sale or occupancy and are used solely for demonstration and
advertising at the entrance to the subdivision once sufficient access and
utilities have been installed in that area.
 
                                   The owners of the subdivision shall file
                                   with the P&Z, within two (2) months after
Certify Satisfactory Completion of the date of construction completion, a
Improvements                       certificate stating that the improvements as
                                   specified and required by the city have been
                                   completed in accordance with the city’s
                                   standards and specifications.
 
2.4.4  Approval by Sections (Phases).
   An owner or developer, at his option, may obtain final approval of a portion
or section of a subdivision, provided he meets all the requirements of this
ordinance in the same manner as is required for a complete subdivision. Any
phasing must be shown on the Preliminary Plat. Any portion of a final plat that
developed in sections or phases must correspond to the sections or phases on
the Preliminary Plat. In the event the developer chooses to submit a final plat
that does not agree with the approved phasing plan contained on an approved
preliminary plat, the preliminary plat must be resubmitted with amended phasing
indicated. In the event a subdivision and the final plat thereof is approved by
the City Council in sections, each Final Plat of each section is to carry the
name of the entire subdivision, but is to be distinguished from each other
section by a distinguishing letter, number or subtitle designating the Phase.
Block numbers shall run consecutively throughout the entire subdivision, even
though such subdivision may be finally approved in sections.
2.4.5  Refusal of Approval for Inadequate Infrastructure.
   The P&Z may refuse to approve a plat whenever it is evident that adequate
infrastructure (roadways and utilities) cannot be supplied within a reasonable
time.
2.5  Replats
2.5.1  Replats.
   Except for Minor Replats, any replatting of subdivision lots requires
submittal, review and approval of the P&Z and the City Council. However, a
preliminary plat is not required for replats and the replat must follow the
guidelines of a final plat. All replats must conform to Texas Local Government
Code Sections 212.014 and 212.015 including concurrence of all affected
landowners and proper public hearings. Replats cannot be used to amend or
remove any covenants or restrictions.
2.5.2  Minor Replats.
   State law allows for a minor (administrative) replat that City Staff can
affect without the need for reapproval by P&Z or City Council. To be handled as
a minor replat, the plat must meet all of the guidelines described above in the
definition of "Minor Replat". This plat is generally used to correct for
physical encroachments in which reallocation of property by the affected
landowners is preferred over the correction of the physical feature.
2.6  Amending Plats
2.6.1  Plat Corrections.
   Minor errors in plats may be corrected by the use of an Amending Plat.
Amending plats shall only be used to make corrections in accordance with the
specific conditions stipulated in Texas Local Government Code 212.016. Amending
Plats can be considered directly by City Council (or their staff designee, if
so chosen) without review by the P&Z.
   Any corrections not falling under the criteria of LGC 212.016 will require
full resubmittal of the plat and will be treated as a replat.
2.7  Vacating Plats
2.7.1  Plat Vacations.
   A plat may be vacated (be rescinded or made invalid) in the manner described
by Texas Local Government Code 212.013. To be vacated, the plat must indicate
that it is being vacated and be signed and approved by all landowners involved.
City approval and plat recording shall be the same as the original plat. The
vacation must include all of the land involved in the original platting.
SECTION 3 - PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS (PLANS)
3.1  General
3.1.1  General.
   The owner or subdivider of property shall observe the general requirements
and principles of land subdivision and street layout contained herein.
Improvements shall comply with all applicable state and federal laws, as well
as city ordinances. Where not explicitly governed herein, infrastructure
designs shall comply with the guidelines of the City Engineer and standard
engineering practices in the Dallas-Fort Worth area, taking into account the
guidelines of national testing and guideline groups (AWWA, NSF, etc.).
3.1.2  Variations and Modifications.
   Variations and modifications of the general requirements as outlined herein
may be made by the P&Z when, in its judgment, special or peculiar factors and
conditions warrant such variations and the variations do not affect the general
application or spirit of the rules and regulations.
3.1.3  North Central Texas Council of Government Specifications.
   Plans and specifications for contract documents, materials and construction
of public improvements shall generally adhere to the items in the Standard
Specifications for Public Works Construction, latest revision as published by
the North Central Texas Council of Governments (hereinafter referred to as
NCTCOG Specs) or as specified and amended by the design engineer. Copies of the
NCTCOG Specs may be purchased from the North Central Texas Council of
Governments, 616 Six Flags Drive, Suite 200, (P.O. Box 5888), Arlington, Texas
76055-5888. NCTCOG can be contacted at 817-640-3300.
3.1.4  Subdivider/Developer Agreements.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider/developer to provide, at
their own cost, proper access and utilities to each lot in the subdivision as
set forth herein. In certain cases, the subdivider/developer may elect to
provide additional amenities beyond that which are required by the City. In
other cases, the City may elect to participate in infrastructure upsizing to
provide service or potential service to more than the affected subdivision. In
all cases where streets, utilities or other public improvements are concerned,
a written agreement between the subdivider/developer and the City will be
required. Such agreement shall delineate the payments to be made by the
respective parties, the surety that such work will be performed and the
provisions for the perpetual maintenance of such improvements.
3.1.5  Comprehensive Plan.
   Any platted subdivision shall adhere and incorporate the relevant aspects of
the City’s Comprehensive Plan in effect prior to the final approval of the
Final Plat. These shall include, but shall not be limited to, thoroughfares,
main utility transmission lines, etc. Such items on the Comprehensive Plan are
necessary for the orderly growth of the City as a whole.
3.1.6  Subdivider Plan Requirements.
   The subdivider of each tract of land will be required to construct, at his
own expense, the water, sewer, streets, drainage and other infrastructure
improvements necessary to service the subdivision in accordance with the City’s
standards and specifications, including all engineering costs covering design,
layout and construction supervision. The subdivider, at his own expense, shall
include all fire hydrants, street signs, street markings, streetlights and
other necessary appurtenances to provide for a complete and functioning
project. Final plans for such improvements shall be submitted to the P&Z for
study by the City Engineer and approval recommendation. Plats, plans,
agreements and bonds must be approved by the City Council before any work is
started in the subdivision. Detailed construction plans, including the plan and
profile for each street, water line, sewer line, and storm drainage line shall
be filed with the submission of the final plat in the same number of copies as
required of the final subdivision plat. Where plats are presented for approval
that adjoin unplatted property, the owner and/or developer of the proposed
subdivision shall provide his pro rata share of the improvements cost of for
[sic] boundary streets or other joint facilities. Where the boundary streets
are not to be paved in their entire width abutting the proposed subdivision,
the owner and/or developer shall deposit funds into escrow with the City. Each
street installation project will be considered by the City upon the individual
merits of each project prior to construction.
   As a minimum, each plan set shall be on 24" x 34" blueline paper and include
the following items. Each sheet shall have an approved title block in the lower
right-hand corner (or along the right edge) and shall be sealed and signed by
the licensed design engineer.
SECTION INCLUDING
SECTION                 INCLUDING
                        Project title, location map, index, city officials,
Cover Sheet             date, design firm, seal and signature of design
                        engineer.
                        Copy of the final plat (unapproved plat to be included
Final Plat              for review, substituted with approved plat after plat
                        approval.)
Geometric Site Layout   Layout of the entire site with coordinate layout of
                        major control points and listing of all benchmarks used
                        Sheets showing horizontal and vertical geometry along
Plan and Profile Sheets specific facility centerlines or baselines. Usually
                        annotated on at least 100' stations with annotations
                        for specific areas.
Special Sheets          Sheets showing calculations, item lists, maps or other
                        items needed to be included in the plans
Special Details         Construction details for items specific to this
                        project.
Standard Details        Construction details for items common to all similar
                        city projects.
 
3.2  Site Grading
3.2.1  General Design.
   Before any earthwork is performed on the subdivision, the developer shall
submit a site-grading plan showing the existing contours and the proposed
contours for the work. Contours shown shall be in either 1' or 2' vertical
intervals. The plan shall demonstrate that the work will not have any
appreciable change in the site drainage characteristics or shall show the site
modification and any mitigation measures necessary to accommodate the change.
In addition, the plan shall show that no grading will not adversely affect
adjacent property owners and will include temporary and permanent erosion
control measures. The plan shall also include State/Federal approvals for work
involving 404 wetlands and any other required State/Federal approvals that may
be applicable to the site. (See section on Drainage below.)
3.2.2  Finished Floors (Pad Sites).
   The site grading plan and all construction shall be such that building pads
for structures shall drain away at a minimum of 2% grade in all directions from
the structure for at least 50' from the edge of structure, unless proper walls,
ditches, or underground drainage systems are used to capture and convey 100-
year runoff away from the building. In any area in which localized building
flooding appears to be a concern, the applicant shall set a minimum finish
floor elevation and show such on the grading plans.
3.2.3  Amenities.
   Where possible, the applicant is encouraged to preserve trees and unique
natural features in the site grading area.
3.3  Drainage
3.3.1  General Design.
   The old axiom that “water runs downhill” is definitely true. Since
modifications to existing property normally tend to interfere with the soil’s
ability to absorb rainfall, development generally causes increased runoff from
the affected property. As such, rules and laws have been established to protect
downstream property owners from excessive increases in runoff flows across
their property. For this reason, care must be taken to calculate and mitigate
any significant increases in flow leaving the property. Typically, this is done
by several methods such as piping the flows directly to a natural conduit
capable of conveying the increased runoff without detriment to others or by
capturing the excess runoff and slowly releasing it so that it leaves at a rate
not exceeding the predevelopment rate.
   In addition, care must be taken not to flood streets or buildable property
within the proposed subdivision itself.
3.3.2  EPA Stormwater Permit.
   An EPA Stormwater permit is required for all construction sites which are 5
acres or larger. The area requirement is based on the total development, not
just the portion currently under construction. In essence, this requirement is
for all subdivisions in which the Preliminary Plat (or Final Plat, if a
preliminary is not required) is 5 acres or more. No earthwork can take place on
an EPA permitted site (or a site eligible for an EPA permit) until a Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) has been developed and a Notice of Intent
(NOI) filed with the EPA. Further information may be obtained at www.epa.gov.
3.3.3  Design Methods.
   The determination of design discharge of storm drainage water shall be
accomplished in accordance with the following criteria:
      (1)   The Rational Method (Q = CIA) shall be used on small watersheds of
one thousand acres (1,000) acres or less.
      (2)   Unit hydrographic techniques shall be used for areas greater than
one thousand (1,000) acres.
   The City Engineer prior to the completion of calculations shall approve the
technique and data to be used for the determination of the design discharge. A
complete set of all detailed calculations must be submitted to the City
Engineer for approval prior to the completion of the plans for the drainage
system.
3.3.4  Design Frequencies, Intensities and Duration.
   For all non-critical streets, the 100-year return frequency storm runoff can
be contained within the street right-of-way. Non-critical streets are streets
that are not thoroughfares. All bridges, culverts, underpasses, and open
ditches shall be designed for a 100-year return frequency storm based on
ultimate upstream development conditions. All piped storm drainage shall be
designed such that at least one lane of any thoroughfare is open during a 100-
year event, and such that any overflow due to a 100-year event storm is
contained within the street right-of-way for non-thoroughfare streets or within
the easement or right-of-way of non-street areas.
   The intensity and duration of the rainfall shall be based on the Texas
Department of Transportation formula and TxDOT coefficients for Tarrant County
for areas less than 1000 acres. Technical Paper No. 40 of the Weather Bureau of
the United States Department of Commerce, or other methods approved by the City
Engineer, shall be used for larger areas. Flow in streams which have been
studied by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers and which have been studied and
mapped by FEMA, shall use Corps data as an initial basis.
3.3.5  Sizes and Capacities.
   Drainage pipes shall be designed such that the hydraulic grade line (HGL) is
continually maintained at least 18" below the top of curb, or below street
subgrade, whichever is lower.
   Plans shall show all hydraulic calculations, including structure losses, and
the HGL shall be plotted on all profiles. In no case shall drainage pipes be
less than 18" inside diameter.
3.3.6  Time of Concentration.
   The time of concentration is defined as the longest time that will be
required for a drop of water to flow from the upper limit of the drainage area
to the point of concentration.
   The minimum times of concentration are shown below:
 
Parks and permanent open areas       20 minutes
Single-Family and Duplex residential 10 minutes
Multifamily, Business and Industrial 10 minutes
 
   In cases where it is evident that the actual time of concentration is more
than that indicated above, the longer time of concentration should be used.
3.3.7  Runoff Coefficients.
   The coefficient of runoff to be used in the calculations shall be as
follows:
 
Streets                               0.95
Industrial areas                      0.95
Business areas                        0.90
Multifamily                           0.65
Residential areas (less than 2 acres) 0.50
Residential areas (2 acres or more)   0.40
Park areas and permanent open space   0.35
 
   The coefficient of runoff for undeveloped land shall be the appropriate
coefficient for the ultimate land development as shown on the Future Land Use
Map of the Comprehensive Plan.
3.3.8  Discharges and Velocities.
   Under full pipe design conditions, pipe flows shall not be less than 2 feet
per second or greater than 10 feet per second. Velocities below 2 fps tend to
leave mud and other debris lodged in pipes. Velocities over 10 fps tend to
erode the inside of pipes and cause erosion problems at the outfall. Pipe
discharges shall not be greater than the capacity of the natural system at the
outflow when added to the flows already reaching the natural system for the
design storm event.
3.3.9  Pipe Materials.
   All storm drainage facilities within street rights-of-ways shall be
constructed of reinforced concrete pipe and reinforced concrete structures.
Structures outside of right-of-way areas may use other types of interior smooth
wall pipes in special cases that are approved by the City Engineer and in which
the design engineer demonstrates that such facilities can accommodate the
expected flows, scour and loadings.
   The capacity of pipes shall be calculated by Manning’s formula, or other
method approved by the City Engineer.
3.3.10  Inlets.
   Inlets may be cast-in-place or precast. Grate inlets may be allowed on
private property or off-site ditches. No grates shall be allowed in street
sections. Inlets shall be properly protected during construction so as not to
allow debris and sedimentation to enter the inlet. As a minimum, curb inlets
must be designed to capture at least 1 cfs per linear foot of opening.
3.3.11  Outflow Structures.
   Outflow structures shall be designed to protect the ends of storm piping and
culverts, prevent downstream erosion (i.e. dissipate outflow energy), and
protect any adjacent streets or structures.
3.3.12  Open Channel Flow.
   Open ditches may be used to carry surface runoff in areas in which enough
width is available to accommodate the required section. Capacity of ditches
shall be calculated by Manning’s formula, or other method approved by the City
Engineer. Ditches shall be constructed of sufficient size to carry the intended
runoff. The side slopes of all ditches shall be 3H:1V or flatter.
3.3.13  Off-site Drainage.
   a.   The owner or developer of property to be developed shall be responsible
for all storm drainage flowing on his property. This responsibility includes
the drainage directed to that property by prior development as well as drainage
naturally flowing through the property by reason of topography.
   b.   Adequate consideration shall be given by the owner in the development
of property to determine how the discharge leaving the proposed development
will affect downstream property.
   c.   In all new development where stormwater runoff has been collected or
concentrated, it shall not be permitted to drain onto adjacent property except
in existing creeks, channels or storm sewer unless proper drainage easements or
notarized letters of permission from the affected property owners are provided.
   d.   The subdivider shall pay for the cost of all drainage improvements
required for the development of his subdivision, including any necessary off-
site channels or storm sewers and acquisition of the required easements with
the following exception: If the owner is unable to acquire the necessary off-
site easements, he shall provide the City with documentation of his efforts,
including evidence of a reasonable offer made to the affected property owners.
Should the City receive such a written request for assistance and the City
determines that the need for off-site easements is the only practical solution
to the problem, the City shall attempt to acquire these easements through
negotiations and, if necessary, condemnation. It shall be understood that
condemnation shall only be used as a condition of last resort. In any case, the
owner or developer shall pay all costs associated with the acquisition of these
easements.
Where it is anticipated that additional runoff incident to the development of
the subdivision will overload an existing downstream drainage facility, whether
natural or man-made, and result in hazardous conditions, the P&Z may withhold
approval of the subdivision until appropriate provision has been made to
accommodate the problem, and plans shall be provided which include all
necessary off-site improvements including storm systems, channel grading,
driveway adjustments, culvert improvements, etc.
3.3.14  Bridges and Culverts.
   Bridges or culverts shall be constructed at all street locations where flow
patterns cross the street and are not intercepted by an underground storm sewer
system or appropriate concrete valley gutter. (Note: Valley gutters on public
streets shall not be used to convey more than 10 cfs based on a 100-year
event.) Such bridges and culverts must accommodate the 100-year design flows
based on fully developed upstream conditions. Bridges and culverts must be
designed to accommodate the needed driving lanes for cross traffic along with
any safety end treatment, protective offsets, guardrail, signs and/or lighting.
3.3.15  Detention and Retention Ponds.
   All subdivisions and sites are required to install Detention/Retention ponds
if the post-construction 100-year design flow leaving the subdivision or site
at any concentrated point is increased more than 10 cfs from the predesigned
condition. Outlet structures shall be staged to prevent more than 10 cfs
difference at the 5, 10, 25, 50 and 100 year flow levels. Outflow structures
should be well maintained and unobstructed. Provisions for maintenance shall be
included with plat or deed covenants. Except by special consideration, all
detention and retention ponds shall remain the property of the subdivider/
developer/homeowners association, and shall not be the direct responsibility of
the City. Retention ponds shall be protected to prevent drowning and water
stagnation (mosquitoes).
3.4  Water
3.4.1  General Design.
   Where existing water supplies are available, the developer shall extend the
existing system to serve the new subdivision and provide for lines for the
extension of the system beyond the subdivision. Where existing water supplies
are not available, the developer may install a complete water system to serve
his subdivision and dedicate such system to the City for operation, or he may
leave it to the purchaser of each lot to provide water from wells. In the event
that new wells are required (either public or private), their location and the
construction of all required water facilities shall conform to TCEQ rules and
current city ordinances (including sanitary control easements and verification
of groundwater supplies). In no event shall individual lot wells be drilled
closer than 150' to any portion of a sewer or septic system or any other
contamination source.
3.4.2  Impact Fees.
   The Town of Lakeside has not adopted impact fees.
3.4.3  Minimum Sizes.
   The size of lines to be installed shall be determined by the City's
Comprehensive Plan for water and the type of development to be served. Feeder
mains shall not be smaller than eight (8) inches and the system shall be
looped. Branch mains in commercial areas shall not be smaller than eight inches
(8") and branch mains in residential areas shall not be smaller than six inches
(6"). If indicated by the Comprehensive Plan or if a need is demonstrated by
the running of an approved electronic water model (KyPipe, CYBERNET, etc.),
mains shall be upsized accordingly.
3.4.4  Looped System.
   All water mains 8" and larger shall be looped. Smaller mains shall be
looped, if possible. Deadend mains must be approved by the City and shall have
provisions at the dead-end for flushing the line. Dead-end mains longer than
1200 feet shall not be allowed.
3.4.5  Materials.
   For sizes smaller than 16", PVC DR-18 pipe (class 150 or stronger)
conforming to AWWA standard C-900 shall be used. For larger pipes, polywrapped
ductile iron (class 150 or stronger) or concrete cylinder pipe shall be used.
   Asbestos Cement pipe, glued or threaded PVC (including schedules 20, 40, or
80) shall NOT be allowed for water mains or connections prior to the customer
water meter.
3.4.6  Minimum Cover.
   Lines 12" and smaller shall have a minimum cover of 42". Larger pipes shall
have a minimum cover of 60". All water lines shall have a tracing line located
1' above the top of pipe.
3.4.7  Horizontal Geometry.
   Water lines shall be placed in the northern and/or eastern parkways of the
street or in easements allowing the installation of water lines. Water lines
shall be placed a minimum of 10 feet from parallel sewer lines. At any location
where water and sewer lines will be closer than 10 feet, for any reason, TCEQ
rules for special pipe shall apply to both water and sewer lines.
3.4.8  Vertical Geometry.
   Water lines shall be placed so as to avoid mechanical bends. Minimum covers
as stipulated above shall be maintained. A one-foot (1') vertical separation
(outside of pipe to outside of pipe) between the water line and other utilities
shall be maintained at all crossings.
3.4.9  Valves.
   All mains shall contain a valve at least every 1000 feet. A valve shall be
installed on at least two legs of every main tee. A valve shall be placed near
the end of any dead-end main provided that at least one joint of pipe shall be
placed beyond the valve and anchored. This final joint shall also contain a
means of flushing the line. Valves deeper than 36" shall employ valve
extensions to within 36" of the ground surface. Valve nuts shall be covered
with three-piece adjustable cast iron box covers set to grade. All valves shall
be right-hand turning to close. Valves 12" and smaller shall be Mueller A-2370
Resilient Seat Gate Valves, or approved equal. Larger valves shall be Mueller
Line Seal III Butterfly valves, or approved equal.
3.4.10  Fire Hydrants and Fire Lanes.
   Fire Hydrants with valves shall be installed at each street intersection and
at a minimum of five hundred (500) feet spacing in any residential zoning and
three hundred (300) feet spacing in all other zones. Additional fire hydrants
shall be placed as necessary such that all ground portions of all buildings in
the subdivision can be reached with a normal 300-foot lay of fire hose. In most
instances, commercial buildings will be required to have fire suppression
systems and fire spigots in addition to the normal fire hydrants.
   Fire hydrants shall be Mueller, Waterous or other equal approved by the City
Engineer. All fire hydrants shall include a line valve between the fire hydrant
and the water main.
   Where possible, fire hydrants shall be located not further than 15' from a
street or fire lane. Fire lanes shall not be narrower than 20'. Blue pavement
reflectors, meeting the criteria of the fire department, shall be installed at
the center of the street(s) adjacent to each fire hydrant location.
3.4.11  Blocking.
   Fire hydrants, valves and pipe ends shall be blocked with unreinforced
concrete (at least 2500 psi) as shown in the City’s standard water details. If
blocking for a particular situation is not given in the City details, then the
NCTCOG details shall be used. In no instance shall rocks be in contact with the
pipe or fittings.
3.5  Sewer
3.5.1  General Design.
   The developer shall install a complete sewage collection system to serve the
subdivision. This requirement may be waived in areas in which sewer collection
is not currently available and it would be infeasible to connect to distant
collection facilities. In such cases, consideration will be given to individual
septic or aeration systems for each lot. However such systems must undergo
proper permitting, testing, and area restrictions.
3.5.2  Minimum Sizes.
   The size shall be determined by the City Comprehensive Plan and the type of
development to be served. Sufficient line sizes for the continuation of the
system to future developments shall be required. Lines smaller than 6" shall be
prohibited.
3.5.3  Materials.
   Sewer lines shall be SDR-35, ring-gasketed bell and spigot PVC pipe
conforming to ASTM Specifications D3034. Pipe shall be Johns-Manville, Cantex,
or approved equal.
3.5.4  Minimum Depths and Cover.
   Pipes shall be installed at a minimum of four and one-half (4-1/2) feet
below the lowest finished grade to be served for normal lots (up to 200-foot
lot depth). For larger lots, the line must be deeper such that any building
constructed can reach the line using a 2% slope on the lateral.
   In general, all sewer lines shall have a minimum of 4' of ground cover.
3.5.5  Horizontal Design.
   Sewer lines shall be at least 10 feet from parallel water lines. Where
possible, sewer lines shall be placed down the middle of the street. Otherwise,
lines shall be placed on the street side opposite the water line at an offset
directed by the City Engineer. Except for streets with centerline radii greater
than 1,000', all sewer sections shall be straight horizontally from manhole to
manhole.
3.5.6  Crossings.
   All sewer crossings shall conform to TCEQ published guidelines (See TCEQ
Section 290).
3.5.7  Bedding and Encasement.
   The pipe shall be properly embedded and cased depending on the pipe size,
depth of cover, and anticipated loads. Bedding shall be a noncompactable
granular material with the pipe contact points placed carefully to within 0.01'
of plan grade. Contact points for the pipe bell shall be scooped out so that
the pipe bearing rests on the main run of the pipe and not on the bell. Once
set to grade, bedding material shall be installed to the pipe spring line (mid-
pipe). An appropriate free-flowing material shall be used to fill the remainder
of the pipe section to a point at least 1' above the top of pipe. Properly
compacted select fill, as directed, shall be required for the remainder of the
backfilling operation.
3.5.8  Minimum and Maximum Grades.
Pipe Size, inches Minimum Grade, %(to provide at Maximum Grade, %(to prevent
(inside diameter) least 2 fps velocity)          more than 8 fps velocity)
Pipe Size, inches Minimum Grade, %(to provide at Maximum Grade, %(to prevent
(inside diameter) least 2 fps velocity)          more than 8 fps velocity)
6"                0.60%                          5.62%
8"                0.36%                          3.83%
10"               0.24%                          2.84%
12"               0.20%                          2.23%
15"               0.16%                          1.65%
18"               0.12%                          1.30%
See TCEQ rules for larger sizes.
 
   Plan grades shall not have vertical grade changes except at manholes.
Vertical curves shall not be allowed.
3.5.9  Manhole and Cleanout Requirements.
   Connected manholes shall not be separated by more than 500'. In addition, a
manhole shall be placed at every location where changes in pipe size, pipe
type, pipe direction, or intersection of other connecting pipes (other than
single service laterals) occurs. A terminal manhole at the far upstream end of
a line can be replaced by a cleanout if the cleanout is within 250' of the
downstream manhole. The following chart shall determine manhole inside
diameter.
 
Maximum Pipe Size Connected to Manhole  Inside Minimum Diameter of Manhole
(inch OD)                               (feet)
18" and less                            4.0
21" - 27"                               5.0
30" - 36"                               6.0
39" and greater                         As Directed by City Engineer
 
   Manholes in the floodplain, or in areas normally subject to runoff water
flows, shall have a waterproof seal in the top. Areas subject to known
vandalism shall have bolt-down lids.
3.5.10  Infiltration.
   System infiltration shall not be more than 200 gallons per inch of diameter
per mile of pipe per 24 hours. For example, 2 miles of 8" pipe cannot have more
than 3200 gallons of infiltration flow in a 24-hour period. Should federal or
state criteria be more stringent than this requirement, and then [sic] federal
or state criteria shall be used to calculate the infiltration limit.
3.5.11  Drop Manholes.
   Whenever the difference in elevation from the flowline of the highest inflow
pipe to the flowline of the exit pipe exceeds 2' in any manhole, a drop manhole
shall be installed. This manhole shall incorporate a vertical shoot of the same
diameter (or larger) as the high incoming pipe(s) to convey the sewage to a
point within 0.5' (6") of the outlet flowline. This is done to prevent
excessive splashing in the manhole in order to reduce noise and odor.
3.5.12  Service Laterals.
   Each building to be connected to the sewer main shall be connected via a
separate connection. No common services shall be allowed without approval of
the City Engineer. In the event that more than one building needs to flow to an
existing main in a common pipe, then the connecting pipe from the junction of
the two services to the existing main shall conform to all of the requirements
of sewer mains, including easements which shall be dedicated to the City after
approval. Services 6" or less in size can be connected by approved line taps
which do not obstruct any portion of the main. All lines larger than 6" shall
be connected directly to manholes. All services shall be sized according to the
Uniform Plumbing Code and shall be installed with the oversight and approval of
the City’s Building Inspector or Sewer System Manager. When sewers are placed
in, or along, street sections, laterals shall be extended to the right-of-way
line on both sides of the street prior to street construction.
3.6  Streets
3.6.1  General Design.
   Any owner of land, subdivider, his or their engineer, land planner or any
other person making a street layout for any parcel of land or subdivision shall
design the streets in accordance with accepted industry standards meeting at
least the following design standards.
3.6.2  TxDOT Controlled Highways.
   The Texas Department of Transportation (TxDOT) is responsible for State and
Federal highways, several of which are within the Town of Lakeside and its ETJ.
TxDOT has approval jurisdiction for all streets and driveways that access these
highways. Such jurisdiction includes driveway access locations and sizes,
median openings and acceleration/deceleration lanes. It should also be noted
that Interstate 20 is a Federally “Controlled Access Interstate” and no access
shall be allowed except onto approved locations on frontage roads. Any time a
subdivision plat is adjacent to a TxDOT controlled roadway, TxDOT officials
will be involved in the reviews for the plat approval process. Should it be
deemed that the proposed development will have a detrimental impact on the
TxDOT highway, then additional studies or improvements may be required prior to
access to the TxDOT facility.
3.6.3  Traffic Impact Studies.
   Regardless of whether or not a subdivision is adjacent to a TxDOT highway,
the City may require a traffic impact study if it appears that the proposed
development will have a significant impact on the adjacent existing roadways.
In some cases, subdividers may be required to upgrade existing feeder roads in
order to adequately service their development.
3.6.4  Street Classifications.
   Streets shall be designed based on their classifications. Classifications
depend on the quantity and speed of expected traffic. Roadways requiring higher
through speeds or large volumes of traffic shall have higher classifications
and be designed to accommodate these conditions. Normally, the higher
classified streets affect more than one subdivision and must be coordinated
among a number of subdivisions. Such roadways are shown on the City’s
Comprehensive Plan and all affected areas being platted are required to conform
to this plan. In Lakeside, the following classifications shall be used:
CLASS COMMENTS DESIGN, SPEED, MPH MINIMUM R.O.W. WIDTH, MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTH,
                                  FT                    FT
                        DESIGN, MINIMUM
CLASS         COMMENTS  SPEED,  R.O.W.    MINIMUM PAVEMENT WIDTH, FT
                        MPH     WIDTH, FT
                                          Drive Edge Lanes Center     Medians
                                          Lanes            Turn Lanes
              Six-Lane
              with
Major City    Median
Thoroughfare  (NCTCOG   65      120       12'   N/A        12'        16'
(Curbed)      Drawing
              Number
              2010 or
              2090)
              Four-Lane
              with
Normal City   Median
Thoroughfare  (NCTCOG   65      100       12'   N/A        12'        16'
(Curbed)      Drawing
              Number
              2020 or
              2100)
              Four-lane
              undivided
              or two-
Arterial      lane with
(Normal City  left-turn 50      120       12'   8'         14'        20'*
Thoroughfare) lanes and
              allows
              edge
              parking
              Four-lane
              undivided
Collector     (NCTCOG
(Minor City   Drawing   50      60        12'   8'         N/A        N/A
Thoroughfare) Number
              20130 or
              2110)
              Two-lane
Major         undivided 30      50        12'   8'         N/A        N/A
Residential   with edge
              parking
              Two-Lane
              undivided
              with edge
Minor         parking   30      50        10'   8'         N/A        N/A
Residential   (serves
              10 or
              fewer
              lots)
 
3.6.5  Pavement Section.
   The type of pavement is dependent on the number, weight and speed of
vehicles expected. Obviously, the more load expected on the pavement, the
stronger the pavement section must be. Typically, the pavement section consists
of several parts: existing base, subgrade, pavement, pavement surface, and
drainage features. The existing base is the native earth material that is
either cut or carefully compacted into place to form the general shape of the
roadway. It is hoped that the existing base can carry most of loading placed on
the pavement. The subgrade is a modified soil, asphalt or concrete layer above
the existing base used to make up for bearing deficiencies in the existing base
and to provide a relatively smooth surface for the pavement. The pavement is a
protective topping for the subgrade and existing base to prevent erosion and
saturation by water (since most earthen materials will eventually break down in
the presence of water). In many cases, the pavement also provides some loading
support. The pavement surface is designed to facilitate vehicle movement by
minimizing friction but still providing sufficient friction for vehicle tire
stability. If the pavement is the "roof for the pavement section, then the
ditches, gutters and storm sewer system are the gutter system necessary to
carry the drainage water away from the roadway where it cannot cause problems.
   Existing base materials are any native material, with rocky material
generally being the most stable and clay materials being the least stable.
Subgrade materials usually consist of crushed limestone, lime or cement treated
natural materials, asphaltic concrete or other load spreading materials. The
pavement generally consists of reinforced concrete, hot mixed asphalt concrete,
or penetration asphalt pavement. Depending on existing base materials, thicker
sections may be required.
   In general, streets experiencing high traffic volumes or heavy trucks shall
be made of reinforced concrete and be curb and guttered. Other nonresidential
streets can be either reinforced concrete or hot mix asphalt. Major and minor
residential streets shall be hot mixed asphalt when street is curbed but may be
two-course penetration pavement when streets are not curbed.
   The City Engineer shall approve all street designs. The designer shall
submit geotechnical data with the design to validate the sections proposed. The
following is a table of minimum designs. Designs less than these minimums will
not be considered.
 
Roadway Class     Minimum Wheel  Minimum Asphalt      Minimum Reinforced
                  Loading (lbs.) Section              Concrete Section
                                 2" Class D HMAC 8"   8" - Class "C" RC 6"
Major City        18,000         Class B HMAC 6"      - Treated & Compacted
Thoroughfare                     Treated & Compacted  Subgrade
                                 Subgrade
                                 1.5" Class D HMAC    8" - Class "C" RC 6"
Normal City       18,000         6.5" Class B HMAC 6" - Treated & Compacted
Thoroughfare                     Treated & Compacted  Subgrade
                                 Subgrade
                                 1.5" Class D HMAC    8" - Class "C" RC 6"
Arterial          18,000         6.5" Class B HMAC 6" - Treated & Compacted
                                 Treated & Compacted  Subgrade
                                 Subgrade
                                 1.5" Class D HMAC    8" - Class "C" RC 6"
Collector         9,000          6.5" Class B HMAC 6" - Treated & Compacted
                                 Treated & Compacted  Subgrade
                                 Subgrade
                                 1.5" Class D HMAC 8" 6" Class "C" RC 6" -
Major Residential 5,000          Treated & Compacted  Treated & Compacted
                                 Subgrade             Subgrade
                                 1.5" Class D HMAC 8" 6" Class "C" RC 6" -
Minor Residential 5,000          Treated & Compacted  Treated & Compacted
                                 Subgrade             Subgrade
 
3.6.6  Street Arrangement.
   The arrangement of streets in the subdivision shall provide for the
continuation and extension of major and minor freeway, major city thoroughfare,
normal city thoroughfare, arterial and collector streets that are shown on the
Lakeside Thoroughfare Master Plan, a part of the City Comprehensive Plan. Major
and Minor residential streets in the subdivision shall provide convenient
circulation of local traffic within the subdivision and adequate access to all
building lots within the subdivision.
3.6.7  Street Intersections.
   All thoroughfares shall be continuous or in alignment with existing streets,
unless variations are deemed advisable by the P&Z and City Council after
consideration of the recommendations made by the City Engineer. Off-center
street intersections (in which intersections are closer than 200 feet for
thoroughfares or 100 feet for residential streets) shall not be approved except
in unusual cases. Parkways and boulevards shall be of such width as may be
designated by the P&Z. More than two (2) streets intersecting at one point
shall be avoided except where it is impractical to secure a proper street
system otherwise. Where several streets converge at one point, setback lines,
special rounding or cutoff of corners and/or a traffic circle may be required
to insure safety and facility of traffic movement. No street shall intersect
any other street at an angle of less than seventy-five (75) degrees.
3.6.8  Horizontal Curves.
   Curvilinear streets will be permitted. Horizontal curve design must be such
that safe travel through the curve can be anticipated at the design speed for
the roadway. In no case shall the centerline horizontal curves be less than the
following shown (assuming a 2% cross slope, no superelevation, and normal side
friction):
 
CLASSIFICATION      DESIGN SPEED, MPH MINIMUM HORIZONTAL CURVE RADIUS, FT
Major Thoroughfare  55                1,800'
Normal Thoroughfare 50                1,400'
Arterial            50                1,400'
Collector           45                1,050'
Major Residential   30                500'
Minor Residential   30                500'
 
   In very special circumstances, the P&Z and the City Council may approve of
shorter radii on minor residential streets where the circumstances justify such
action. In such cases, the street speed shall be posted according the radius
used.
3.6.9  Vertical Grades and Curves.
   Grade changes in the centerline of streets with an algebraic difference in
grades of more than one percent (1.00%) shall be connected with vertical
curves. Vertical curve design shall be based on the equation:
   L = KA Where
   L = length of curve in feet
   K = factor defined by the table below
   A = algebraic difference in grade
   In any case, the street grades and vertical curves shall be such that the
sight distance is not less than six hundred (600) feet on main thoroughfares,
and not less than four hundred (400) feet on all other streets.
               MINIMUM  MAXIMUM  MINIMUM LENGTH
CLASSIFICATION VERTICAL VERTICAL OF CURVE, L    CREST,K VALUE SAG, K VALUE
               GRADE, % GRADE, %
               MINIMUM  MAXIMUM  MINIMUM LENGTH
CLASSIFICATION VERTICAL VERTICAL OF CURVE, L    CREST,K VALUE SAG, K VALUE
               GRADE, % GRADE, %
Major          0.50%    6.00%    *              *             *
Thoroughfare
Normal         0.50%    6.00%    *              *             *
Thoroughfare
Arterial       0.50%    6.00%    150'           145           100
Collector      0.50%    8.00%    125'           100           80
Major          0.50%    10.00%   100'           30            35
Residential
Minor          0.50%    12.00%   100'           10            15
Residential
*As approved by City Engineer based on actual design parameters.
 
3.6.10  Street Cross Slopes.
   For drainage, all streets shall have a cross slope. The typical cross slope
is 2.00%. At intersections, the minimum cross slope allowed is 0.50% and the
maximum allowed is 2.00%.
3.6.11  Street Drainage.
   Topographic maps with contour intervals of two (2) feet (or less) and
details of existing drainage structures and watercourses shall be submitted
along with calculations for all watersheds affecting areas of the purposed
storm drain design. Drainage design shall be computed as noted in the drainage
section of this ordinance. Maps showing the delineation and flow from each
drainage area must be included in the plans along with all hydraulic
calculations. Street and drainage profiles shall show the location of the
hydraulic grade line.
3.6.12  Sight Triangles.
   No obstruction shall be maintained in a location as to obstruct the view of
the driving public at an intersection from seeing down the side streets. The
definition of “obstruction” is any fence, wall, grass, hedge, shrubbery, etc.
higher than thirty (30) inches above ground level. To preserve the driver’s
view down side streets, a sight easement triangle will be required on all
corner lots. The sight triangle shall be the triangle made by extending 25'
along each property line from the property corner at the street intersection.
3.6.13  Street Connections with Adjacent Subdivisions.
   In order that proper relationship of new subdivision streets may be
maintained with adjoining streets and land, the system of streets in a new
subdivision, except in unusual cases, must connect with streets already
dedicated in adjacent subdivisions that have been platted. There must, in
general be a reasonable projection of streets into the nearest subdivided
tracts, and the same must be continued to the boundaries the land being
subdivided, so that future subdivisions may be connected therewith.
3.6.14  Provisions for Future Resubdivision.
   Where a tract of land is subdivided into parcels that are larger than normal
building lots, such parcels shall be arranged to permit the opening of future
streets and logical ultimate resubdivision.
3.6.15  Dead-end Streets.
   No permanent dead-end streets shall be approved unless the following
conditions are met:
      1.   The area is residential.
      2.   The street ends in a cul-de-sac with a paved outside radius of not
less than sixty (60) feet.
      3.   There shall be no more than 20 houses (i.e. Lots) on the cul-de-sac
street.
   Temporary dead-end streets may be approved in locations in which the street
will be continued in the future. In such locations, the end of the street shall
be properly barricaded and a temporary cul-de-sac constructed.
3.6.16  Reserve Strips.
   A reserve strip is a strip of land retained by the subdivider between the
dedicated street and the lots to be served by the street. Reserve strips can
also separate parks and other public properties from lots. NO RESERVE STRIPS
controlling access to land dedicated, or to be dedicated, to public use shall
be permitted.
3.6.17  Alleys.
   Many cities use alleys to allow access to the rear of each lot and to
provide for rear utilities. The Town of Lakeside does not require (and even
discourages) alleys in residential areas but does require a 10' utility
easement along the rear of each lot. However, alleys may be required where
alleys or adjacent subdivisions already platted would be closed or dead-ended
by failure to provide alleys in the new subdivision.
   As noted, the City does not encourage alleys. However, if a subdivider
desires to include alleys in a subdivision, such alleys shall be designed to be
not less than twenty (20) feet in width. Any construction plans for this type
of improvement shall be submitted to the P&Z for approval prior to the
submission of the Final Plat.
   Alleys or loading courts, of a minimum width of thirty (30) feet paved
surface, or other means of providing adequate off-street loading space, shall
be provided in commercial areas.
3.6.18  Utility Easements.
   Each side of a platted property shall adjoin either a public right-of-way or
easement in order to facilitate the connection of utilities to each lot. Where
right-of-ways do not exist, easements must be dedicated as specified in the
zoning ordinance. If necessary for the extension of water or sewer mains, storm
drainage or other utilities, easements of greater width may be required along
lot lines or across lots. In all cases, easements shall connect with easements
already established in adjoining property.
3.6.19  Curb Radii.
   Radii at street intersections shall not be less than twenty (20) feet for
residential streets and thirty (30) feet for thoroughfare streets. If
necessary, property lines shall be adjusted accordingly.
3.6.20  Street Lighting and Signs.
   Each subdivider shall be responsible for the installation of street signs
and street lighting within a new subdivision. Both shall be of the type, size,
and location as approved by the City. At the completion of the construction
maintenance bond, the City shall take over maintenance of these items if they
are standard items. Specialty, or high cost items, will require maintenance by
the subdivision's owners association.
3.6.21  ADA Access and Sidewalks.
   Streets shall provide for sidewalks that comply with the Americans with
Disabilities Act. Even if no sidewalks are planned for the designed street,
provision shall be made for wheelchair ramps at each corner of an intersection.
If sidewalks are to be constructed, plans will need to be sent to the State for
ADA review, and approved, prior to project construction.
   Sidewalks shall be considered on a subdivision-by-subdivision basis
depending on the anticipated pedestrian traffic within the subdivision. In
general, sidewalks will be required within commercial areas. The City (and
possibly TxDOT) shall approve the sidewalk plan.
3.6.22  Fire Lanes.
   All streets shall be considered “fire lanes” and shall be configured to
provide access to the City’s fleet of emergency vehicles. Care should be taken
that all streets, cul-de-sacs and driveways are sufficiently sized to allow
unobstructed passage and moving of such vehicles.
3.6.23  Speed Bumps.
   Speed bumps shall not be allowed on City streets without approval of the
City Council. If allowed, such bumps shall not be more than 2" high and not
less than 3 feet wide, and shall have sloped sides. Such bumps shall be painted
along the perimeter and crosshatched with yellow traffic marking paint using
lines that are at least 4" wide. Speed bumps on a single street shall not be
positioned closer than 200' from each other.
SECTION 4 - CHECKLISTS AND EXAMPLES
4.1  Checklists
4.1.1  Preliminary Plats.
Title Block            “PRELIMINARY PLAT” wording
                       Unique Subdivision Name
                       City
                       County
                       State
                       Acreage
                       Number of Lots
                       Date
                       Survey Abstract Designations
                       Zoning Classification
Technical Block        Drawn By
                       North Arrow
                       Scale
                       Datum Information for Contours
Surveyor Block         Surveyor Name
                       Surveyor Texas License Number
                       Surveyor Certification Statement
                       Surveyor Firm
                       Business Address
                       Business Phone Number
                       Business Fax Number
                       Business E-mail Address
Engineer Block         Engineer Name
                       Engineer Texas Registration Number
                       Engineer Firm
                       Business Address
                       Business Phone Number
                       Business Fax Number
                       Business E-mail Address
Owner/Subdivider Block Owner(s) Name(s)
                       Owner(s) Address(es)
                       Owner(s) Phone Number(s)
Vicinity Map           Nearby major roads
                       Site Location
Approval Block         Approval Block Form
                       City Engineer Signature
                       P&Z Chairman Signature
Lot Summary Table      Lot Number of Each Lot
                       Lot Size (Acres or SF) of Each Lot
                       Zoning of Each Lot
Existing Graphics      Scale Map of Total Property Under Single Ownership
                       Complete Property Boundary (Bold)
                       Property Line Boundary Calls
                       Survey Abstract Lines
                       Survey Abstract Notations
                       Location and Type of Property Corners
                       Existing Contours (1' or 2' vertical)
                       Existing Treed Areas
                       Existing Waterways and Ponds
                       Existing Buildings and Structures
                       Existing Wells
                       Existing Roadways
                       Existing Easements (including recording information)
                       Existing Utilities (including type and size)
                       Existing Fences
                       Existing Encroachments
                       City Limit Lines
                       ETJ Lines
                       Floodplain Limits
                       Floodplain Notations
                       Other Special Limits and Notations
                       Adjacent Properties Outlined
                       Adjacent Property Owners Names
                       Adjacent Property Owners Recording Information
                       Adjacent Streets and Roadways
                       Adjacent or Nearby Utilities
Proposed Graphics      Proposed Street R.O.W.
                       Proposed Street R.O.W. Notations
                       Street Names
                       Lot Lines (with dimensions)
                       Block Numbers
                       Lot Numbers
                       Proposed Easements
                       Proposed Easement Notations
                       Building Setback Lines
                       Building Setback Line Notations
                       Visibility Triangles
                       Proposed Water Line Locations
                       Proposed Sewer Line Locations
                       Sidewalks
                       Other Areas Dedicated to the Public (Parks, etc.)
                       Other Relevant Graphics and Notes
Proposed Drainage      Drainage Area Boundaries
                       Drainage Area Designations
                       Drainage Area Areas (in Acres)
                       Drainage Area Calculations for 25 and 100 year
                       Proposed Drainage Structures
 
4.1.2  Final Plats.
Title Block             “FINAL PLAT” wording
                        Unique Subdivision Name
                        City
                        County
                        State
                        Acreage
                        Number of Lots
                        Date
                        Survey Abstract Designations
                        Zoning Classification
Technical Block         Drawn By
                        North Arrow
                        Scale
                        Datum Information for Contours
                        Legend
Surveyor Block          Surveyor Name
                        Surveyor Texas License Number
                        Surveyor Certification Statement
                        Surveyor's Seal, Signature and Date
                        Surveyor Firm
                        Business Address
                        Business Phone Number
                        Business Fax Number
                        Business E-mail Address
Engineer Block          Engineer Name
                        Engineer Texas Registration Number
                        Engineer Firm
                        Business Address
                        Business Phone Number
                        Business Fax Number
                        Business E-mail Address
Owner/ Subdivider Block Owner(s) Name(s)
                        Owner(s) Address(es)
                        Owner(s) Phone Number(s)
                        Owner(s) Ownership Statement
                        Property Metes and Bounds Description
                        Owner(s) Dedication Statement
                        Owner(s) Signature and Date
                        Notary Statement for each Owner Signature
                        Notary Signatures, Seals and Dates
Lienholder Block        Lienholder Statement
                        Lienholder Signature, Title and Date
                        Notary Statement for each Lienholder Signature
                        Notary Signatures, Seals and Dates
Developer Block         Developer
                        Developer Business Name
                        Developer Address
                        Developer Phone Number
                        Developer Fax Number
                        Developer E-mail Address
Vicinity Map            Nearby major roads
                        Site Location
Approval Block          City Approval Block Form
                        P&Z Chairman Signature and Date
                        Mayor's Signature and Date
                        Town Secretary's Signature and Date
                        City Engineer Signature and Date
Lot Summary Table       Lot Number of Each Lot
                        Lot Size (Acres or SF) of Each Lot
                        Zoning of Each Lot
Graphics                Map of Property To Be Platted
                        Plat Phase Designation
                        Complete Property Boundary (Bold)
                        Property Line Boundary Calls
                        Survey Abstract Line
                        Survey Abstract Notations
                        Location and Type of Property Corners
                        Existing Roadways
                        Existing Easements (including recording information)
                        Existing Fences
                        Existing Encroachments
                        City Limit Lines
                        ETJ Lines
                        Floodplain Limits and Flood Hazard Block
                        Floodplain Notations
                        Other Special Limits and Notations
                        Adjacent Properties Outlined
                        Adjacent Subdivision Names and Recording Information
                        Adjacent Property Owners Names
                        Adjacent Property Owners Recording Information
                        Adjacent Streets and Roadways
                        Proposed Street R.O.W.
                        Proposed Street R.O.W. Geometry Notations
                        Street Names
                        Lot Lines (with dimensions and boundary calls)
                        Block Numbers
                        Lot Numbers
                        Proposed Easements
                        Proposed Easement Notations
                        Building Setback Lines
                        Building Setback Line Notations
                        Visibility Triangles
                        Other Areas Dedicated to the Public (Parks, etc.)
                        Other Relevant Graphics and Notes (+General Note
                        Block)
Plans                   Complete Engineering Construction Plans and Specs.
                        for:
                        Streets
                        Water
                        Sewer
                        Drainage
                        Other Public Improvements
                        Engineer Name
                        Engineer Texas Registration Number
                        Engineer's Seal, Signature and Date
Certifications          Tax Certificate showing all taxes have been paid
 
4.2  Examples
4.2.1  Owner’s Certification and Dedication - Corporation.
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF TARRANT
WHEREAS, (corporation), acting by and through the undersigned, its duly
authorized agent, is the sole owner of a tract of land situated in the Survey,
County of Tarrant, according to the deed recorded in Volume, , Page, , DRPCT,
and more particularly described as follows:
   (Insert metes and bounds legal description here)
NOW THEREFORE, KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
THAT, (corporation), by and through the undersigned, its duly authorized agent,
does hereby adopt this plat designating the hereinabove described real property
as Subdivision (or Addition) to the Town of Lakeside, Tarrant County, Texas and
it does hereby dedicate to the public's use forever the streets, (alleys,
parks) and easements shown thereon.
WITNESS MY HAND at (city), Tarrant County, Texas, this the day of 20_.
(Name of Corporation) (Name and Office)
(Add a NOTARY block for each signature above)
4.2.2  Owner’s Certification and Dedication - Individual.
STATE OF TEXAS
COUNTY OF TARRANT
WHEREAS, I, , am the sole owner (or we, , are all of the owners) of a tract of
land situated in the Survey, County of Tarrant, according to the deed recorded
in Volume , Page , DRPCT, and more particularly described as follows:
   (insert metes and bounds legal description here)
NOW, THEREFORE, KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
THAT, I, , being the sole owner (or we, , being all of the owners) do hereby
adopt this plat designating the hereinabove described real property as of
Lakeside, Tarrant County, Texas, and I (we) do hereby dedicate to the public's
use forever the street, (alleys, parks, etc.) and easements shown thereon.
WITNESS my (our) hand(s) at (city), Tarrant County, Texas this the day of ,
20_.
(Name, Title)
(Add a NOTARY block for each signature above)
4.2.3  Surveyor’s Certification.
This is to certify that I, , a Registered Professional Land Surveyor of the
State of Texas, have platted the above subdivision from an actual survey on the
ground; and that all lot corners, angle points, and points of curve shall be
properly marked on the ground, and that this plat correctly represents that
survey made by me.
(print name), Surveyor
Texas R.P.L.S. No.
Date:
(seal)
4.2.4  City Preliminary Plat Approval Block.
Reviewed and Preliminary Approved/Granted:
City Engineer Date
Approved for Preparation of Final Plat:
Chairman, City Planning and Zoning Commission Date
4.2.5  City Final Plat Approval Block.
Approved by City Planning & Zoning Commission:
Chairman, City Planning & Zoning Commission Date
Approved by City Council:
I, hereby certify that this plat of the Addition to the City Limits of the Town
of Lakeside, Texas, was approved by the City Council of the Town of Lakeside,
Texas, on the day of , 20_.
Mayor Date
Town Secretary Date
City Engineer Date
4.2.6  Notary Block.
STATE OF TEXAS:
COUNTY OF TARRANT:
BEFORE ME, the undersigned authority, a notary public, in and for the State of
Texas, on this day personally appeared , known to me to be the person whose
name is subscribed to the above and foregoing instrument, and acknowledged to
me that he executed the same for the purposes and consideration expressed and
in the capacity therein stated.
GIVEN UNDER MY HAND AND SEAL OF OFFICE on this the day of , 20_.
Notary Public, Tarrant County, Texas
My Commission Expires on:
(Seal)
4.2.7  Lienholder Statement.
STATE OF TEXAS:
COUNTY OF TARRANT:
WHEREAS, the undersigned, as lienholder on the acreage subdivided according to
this plat, hereby consents to such subdivision and joins in the dedication for
the use of the public forever, the streets, (parks, alleys, etc.) and easements
shown thereon.
WITNESSED MY HAND THIS DAY on this the day of , 20_.
(Lienholder Name and Title)
Date:
(Add a NOTARY block for each signature above)
4.2.8  Flood Hazard Statement.
THIS TRACT (DOES) (DOES NOT) APPEAR TO BE IN THE SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA
ACCORDING TO THE DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT'S FIA FLOOD HAZARD
BOUNDARY MAP.
Map Number:
Date:
4.2.9  General Notes.
NOTES: Any development upon any lot, parcel, tract or replat of the land herein
being platted is subject to all subdivision (and zoning, if in City Limits)
regulations of the Town of Lakeside including, but not limited to, provisions
for drainage and stormwater control, water well control and sanitary sewer
control including any required accompanying easements and appurtenances. Also,
before construction or digging, please contact the Town of Lakeside, the proper
utility company, and/or 1-800-DIG-TESS for locates on existing utility lines.
(Ord. 353, passed 7-10-2013)
CHAPTER 154:  GAS DRILLING AND PRODUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Definitions
   
154.003   Gas Inspector and town oversight
   
154.004   Operator’s agent
   
154.005   Technical Advisor
   
154.006   Appeals
Gas Well Permits
   
154.020   Permit required
   
154.021   Application and filing fees
   
154.022   Permit review procedure
   
154.023   Denial of gas well application
   
154.024   Amended gas well permits
   
154.025   Suspension or revocation of gas well permit; effect
   
154.026   Periodic reports
   
154.027   Road damage assessment and fee and calculation
   
154.028   Air sampling and quality
   
154.029   Water sampling and quality
   
154.030   Indemnity
Insurance and Bond
   
154.040   Bond
   
154.041   Insurance
   
154.042   Notice
On Site Technical Regulations
   
154.055   On site requirements
   
154.056   Fences, walls, screening and landscaping
   
154.057   Plugged and abandoned wells
Gas Pipeline Installation
   
154.070   Public right-of-way use agreement requirements
   
154.071   Fees and payments to the town
   
154.072   Regulatory authority of the town
   
154.073   Use of public rights-of-way
   
154.074   As-built plans and maps
   
154.075   Liability and indemnification
   
154.076   Insurance
   
154.077   Provision of information
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The exploration, development and production of gas in the town are
activities which necessitates reasonable regulation to ensure that all property
owners, mineral and otherwise, have the right to peaceably enjoy their property
and its benefits and revenues. It is hereby declared that the purpose of this
chapter is to establish reasonable and uniform limitations, safeguards and
regulations for present and future operations on private and public property
that will serve as minimum standards for the exploring, drilling, developing,
producing, transporting and storing of gas and other substances produced in
association with gas within the town to protect the health, safety and general
welfare of the public; minimize the potential impact to private and public
property and mineral rights owners, protect the quality of the environment and
encourage the orderly production of available mineral resources.
   (B)   This chapter will be considered minimum standards for private and
public property. The City Council may approve permits, leases and other
documents pertaining to private and public property that contain provisions
that modify the minimum standards in this chapter to further protect the health
and safety of the public.
   (C)   To the extent that any provision of this chapter might be inconsistent
or in conflict with the specific provision of any other ordinance of the Town
of Lakeside, this chapter shall control with regard to the conflict.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.002  DEFINITIONS.
   All technical industry words or phrases related to the drilling and
production of gas wells not specifically defined in this section shall have the
meanings customarily attributable thereto by prudent and reasonable gas
industry operators. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where
the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.  The same meaning as defined by the Texas Railroad Commission
and includes the plugging of the well and the restoration of any well site as
required by this chapter.
   ALL-WEATHER HARD SURFACE.  A permanent surface that as a minimum is a base
course constructed such that it meets the requirements of the International
Fire Code, is at least 20 feet wide, has an overhead clearance of 14 feet,
drains appropriately, remains water resistant, is free of litter, debris,
weeds, grass or other objectionable materials or objects and is visibly dust
free.
   AMBIENT NOISE LEVEL.  The all encompassing noise level associated with a
given environment, being a composite of sounds from all sources at the
location, constituting the normal or existing level of environmental noise at a
given location.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   BERM. A mound of soil, either natural or manmade, used to obstruct a view.
The side slope shall not exceed a three-foot horizontal and a one-foot vertical
slope.
   BLOWOUT PREVENTER.  A mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic or other device or
combination of such devices secured to the top of a well casing, including
valves, fittings and, control mechanisms connected therewith, which can be
closed around the drill pipe, or other tubular goods which completely close the
top of the casing and are designed for preventing blowouts.
   BTEX.  Acronym that stands for benzene, toluene, ethy/benzene, and xylenes.
These compounds are some of the volatile organic compounds (VOCs) found in
petroleum derivatives such as petrol (gasoline).
   BUILDING.  Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy. The term BUILDING shall be construed as if followed by the
words “or portions thereof”.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL.  The officer or other designated authority charged with
administration and enforcement of this chapter, or the Building Official’s duly
authorized representative.
   CATHODIC PROTECTION.  An electrochemical corrosion control technique whereby
a direct current is applied to the structure which causes the structure
potential to change from the natural corrosion potential (Ecorr) to a
protective potential in the immunity region.
   CHLORIDE.  The chloride ion is formed when the element chlorine picks up one
electron to form an anion (negatively-charged ion) Cl-. The salts of
hydrochloric acid HCl contain chloride ions and can also be called chlorides.
The chloride ion is the anon of chlorine, a halogen element.
   CHURCH.  A facility or area for people to gather together for public
worship, religious training, or other religious activities including a temple,
mosque, synagogue, convent, monastery or other structure, together with its
accessory structures, including a parsonage or rectory. This use does not
include home meetings or other religious activities conducted in a privately
occupied residence.
   CITY.  The Town of Lakeside.
   CITY CODE.  The city code of ordinances of the Town of Lakeside.
   CLOSED LOOP MUD SYSTEM.  A series of above-ground tanks used to store,
process, and recycle drilling mud, cuttings and other fluids. This system is
used in place of the traditional earthen pits at a drilling operation.
   COMPLETION.  The date the work is completed for the drilling, re-drilling or
reworking and the drilling equipment is released by the operator.
   COMPRESSOR.  A device that raises the pressure of a compressible fluid such
as air or gas. COMPRESSORS create a pressure differential to-move or compress a
vapor or a gas. More than one compressor as in a series may be located on a
compressor pad site to adequately compress product.
   DAYTIME.  The period from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
   DECIBEL (db).  A unit for measuring the intensity of a sound/noise and is
equal to ten times the logarithm to the base ten of the ratio of the measured
sound pressure squared to a reference pressure which is 20 micropascals.
   DERRICK.  Any portable framework, tower, mast and/or structure which is
required or used in connection with drilling or re-working a well for the
production of gas.
   DRILLING.  Digging or boring a new well for the purpose of exploring for,
developing or producing gas or other hydrocarbons, or for the purpose of
injecting gas, water or any other fluid or substance into the earth.
   DRILLING EQUIPMENT.  The derrick, together with all parts of and
appurtenances to such structure, every piece of apparatus, machinery or
equipment used or erected or maintained for use in connection with drilling.
   DRILL SITE.  The premises used during the drilling, completion or re-working
of a well or wells located there and subsequent life of a well or wells or any
associated operations.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN.  A plan put in place to deal with emergency
situations that may occur at the drill site during all stages of the drilling
and production process.
   EXPLORATION ACTIVITY.  The geologic or geophysical activities, including
seismic surveys, related to the search for gas or other subsurface
hydrocarbons.
   Ecorr.  Measurement of corrosion potential.
   FEMA.  The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT.  The fire department of the town or any area fire
department with which the town contracts for fire services and protection.
   FIRM.  Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLARING.  To dispose of surplus combustible vapors by igniting them in the
atmosphere. This process may include the use of a series of secured piping to
facilitate flow of gas and a combustion chamber to ignite the gas.
   FLOW BACK OPERATIONS.  Activities and processes used to expel water from a
well in order to facilitate the production of gas.
   FRAC TANK.  A man-made water storage tank designed using earthen berms to
contain water. These can be from existing ponds or other water storage tanks.
Man-made tanks shall be lined with plastic with an appropriate mil spec rating.
   FRACTURE STIMULATION (FRAC or FRACTURING, FRACING).  A method of stimulating
production from a well by increasing the permeability of the producing
formation. FRACTURING can be accomplished by the injecting of a fluid carrying
propping agents under extremely high hydraulic pressure downward into a well to
cause pressure that cracks or opens up fractures already present in the
formation.
   GAS.  Any fluid, either combustible or noncombustible, which is produced in
a natural state from the earth and which maintains a gaseous or rarefied state
at standard temperature and pressure conditions and/or the gaseous components
or vapors occurring in or derived from petroleum or natural gas.
   GAS WELL or WELL.  Any well drilled, to be drilled, or used for the intended
or actual production of natural gas or other hydrocarbons.
   GENERATOR PLANT.  The electrical service generated on site servicing the
drilling rig and all associated equipment including personal living quarters.
   GROUNDING AND BONDING.  To ground all power and equipment on the drilling
site to prevent electrical discharges and lightning protection.
   HOSPITAL.  A facility or area for providing health services primarily for
human in-patient medical or surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities, central services facilities and staff offices that are an integral
part of the facilities.
   INSPECTOR.  The gas inspector, Building Official designee or other designee
of the Town Administrator of the Town of Lakeside that enforces this chapter.
   ISOLATION VALVES.  Mechanical valves located at pre-designated intervals on
gas pipelines to shut the flow of gas in a pipeline to minimize an accidental
release into the environment in the event of an emergency or to facilitate the
controlled release of gas in connection with testing, maintenance, repair or
inspection of pipelines. ISOLATION VALVES may be manually operated, automatic
or remotely controlled by the pipeline operator.
   LIFT COMPRESSOR.  A device that raises the pressure of a compressible fluid
(gas) in order to lift gas from the well.
   LINE COMPRESSOR.  A device that raises the pressure of a compressible fluid
(gas) in order for the gas to be transported through a pipeline.
   MCL.  Acronym that stands for Maximum Contaminant Levels. The maximum
permissible level of a contaminant in water which is delivered to a user of a
public water system, and includes the primary and secondary MCLs established
under the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act, and MCLs adopted under the act. For
MCLs incorporated into this chapter by reference, the term refers to the
numerical value and the means of determining compliance with that value and
does not refer to the EPA applications to specific types of public water
systems or sources.
   NIGHTTIME.  The period between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   OGS.  Acronym that stands for Oil and Gas Site.
   OPERATION SITE.  The area within a well site used for development and
production of gas and all operational activities associated with a gas well
after drilling and completion activities are finished.
   OPERATOR.  For each well, the person listed on the Railroad Commission Form
W-1 or Form P-4 for a gas well that is, or will be, actually in charge and in
control of drilling, maintaining, operating, pumping or controlling any well,
including, without limitation, a unit operator. If the OPERATOR, as herein
defined, is not the lessee under a gas lease of any premises affected by the
provisions of this chapter, then such lessee shall also be deemed to be an
OPERATOR. In the event that there is no gas lease relating to any premises
affected by this chapter, the owner of the fee mineral estate in the premises
shall be deemed an OPERATOR.
   PAD SITE.  The area that is fenced and constructed to contain all drilling
related activities, including, but not limited to, the drilling rig, pipe rack,
generators, pumps, compressors, frac tanks, camper/office trailers, tank
batteries, separators, dehydrators, metering stations, equipment storage, and
living quarters.
   PAD SITE BOUNDARY.  The perimeter boundary of the pad site as defined in
this section. PAD SITE BOUNDARIES shall be described by a metes and bounds
survey included in the gas well permit application. A screening fence is
required to be construction along the pad site boundaries in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   PBR.  Acronym for Permit by Rule for Oil and Gas Production Facilities
located in the Barnett Shale region administered by the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality. Operating specifications and emissions limitations for
typical equipment (facilities) during normal operation, which includes
production and planned maintenance, start-up and shutdown (“MSS”).
   PERFORATING.  Piercing the casing wall and cement in a wellbore by use of
explosive charges to create holes through which formation fluids may enter or
to provide holes in the casing so that materials may be introduced into the
annulus between the casing and the all of the wellbore.
   PERMIT.  Any written license granted by the town for the exploration,
development, and production of gas wells issued pursuant to rules and
regulations of this chapter.
   PERSON.  Includes not only each and every individual member of a crew or
other entity performing work, but also includes any corporation, partnership,
joint venture or other entity which serves as an individual’s employer,
principal, or contractual party to an independent contractor agreement.
   PIPELINE(S).  The PIPELINE(S) and other facilities approved by the town that
are installed by a pipeline company in the public rights-of-way in accordance
with a right-of-way use agreement.
   PIPELINE COMPANY.  The company authorized by an agreement to install and
maintain gas pipelines with the town’s public right-of-way.
   PRODUCTION.  The period after the fracturing and flow back operations have
been completed and natural gas has been run through a series of separators and
tank batteries to metering devices and into the pipeline.
   PROPERTY LINES.  Surface property lines per this chapter.
   PROPERTY OWNER.  The owner of the surface property.
   PROTECTED USE.  A residence, religious institution, hospital building,
public or private school, day care or public park.
   PUBLIC BUILDING.  All buildings used or designed to and intended to be used
for the purpose of assembly of persons for such purposes as deliberation,
entertainment, amusement, or health care. PUBLIC BUILDINGS include, but shall
not be limited to, theaters, assembly halls, auditoriums, armories, mortuary
chapels, exhibition halls, museums, gymnasiums, libraries, skating rinks,
courtrooms, restaurants, shopping malls, stores and hospitals.
   PUBLIC PARK.  Any land area dedicated to and/or maintained by the town for
traditional park-like recreational purposes, but shall not include privately-
owned amusement parks or privately-owned or privately-managed golf courses.
   PUBLIC or PRIVATE SCHOOL.  An educational institution, attendance at which
satisfies the compulsory education laws of the State of Texas or a facility or
area for pre-kindergartens, kindergartens, elementary or secondary education
supported by a public, church or parish organization. This definition may
include after public or private school and summer programs which coincide with
the age brackets for public or private schools.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Public streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks, pathways,
trails and bridges.
   RAILROAD COMMISSION.  The Texas Railroad Commission.
   RE-DRILL.  Re-completion of an existing well by deepening or sidetrack
operations extending more than 150 feet from the existing well bore.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.  Any building in which persons regularly assemble for
religious worship and activities intended primarily for purposes connected with
such worship or for propagating a particular form of religious belief.
   RESIDENCE.  A house, duplex, apartment, townhouse, condominium, mobile home
or other building designed for dwelling purposes, including those for which a
building permit has been issued on the date the application for a gas well
permit is filed with the town.
   RE-WORKING.  Re-completion or re-entry of an existing well within the
existing bore hole or by deepening or sidetrack operations which do not extend
more than 150 feet from the existing well bore, or replacement of well liners
or casing.
   RIG-DOWN.  The day drilling has been completed and the rig is dissembled and
all equipment prepared for movement from the pad site.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Any area of land within the town that is acquired by,
dedicated to, or claimed by the town in fee simple, by easement, by
prescriptive right or other interest and that is expressly or impliedly
accepted or used in fact or by operation of law as a public roadway, sidewalk,
alley, utility, drainage, or public access easement or used for the provision
of governmental services or functions. The term includes the area on, below,
and above the surface of the public RIGHT-OF-WAY. The term applies regardless
of whether the public RIGHT-OF-WAY is paved or unpaved.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.  A written agreement provided by the
town obligating the operator, at his or her own expense to repair damage,
excluding ordinary wear and tear, if any, including but not limited to, public
streets sidewalks, pathways, trails, and bridges. Damages to public rights-of-
way caused by the operator or its employees, agents, contractors,
subcontractors, or representatives, in the performance of any activity
associated with the preparation, drilling, production or operation gas wells
authorized by the town shall be repaired at the operator’s expense.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY USE AGREEMENT.  The authorization issued to a pipeline company
to use the public rights-of-way for:
      (1)   The construction, installation, maintenance and repair of pipeline
company’s pipeline;
      (2)   The use of such pipeline for the transportation of gas; and
      (3)   Any other directly related uses of the public rights-of-way,
pursuant to and in accordance with a RIGHT-OF-WAY USE AGREEMENT.
   RIG-UP.  The process of setting up ancillary equipment and the drilling rig
in order to begin the drilling process.
   SALT WATER DISPOSAL WELL.  A well used for the purpose of injecting produced
water back into the ground.
   SCHOOL.  Any public and private, primary and secondary educational
facilities providing education up through and including the twelfth grade level
and any licensed day care centers, meaning a facility licensed by the State of
Texas or by the Town of Lakeside that provides care, training, education,
custody, treatment or supervision for more than six children under 14 years of
age, and for less than 24 hours per day.
   SEISMIC SURVEY.  An exploration method in which low frequency sound waves
are generated on the surface to find subsurface rock structures that may
contain hydrocarbons. Interpretation of the survey record can reveal possible
hydrocarbon bearing formations.
   STREET.  Any street, highway, sidewalk, alley, avenue, recessed parking area
or other public right-of-way, including the entire right-of-way dedicated to
the public use and not designated as an alley or private access easement.
   TANK.  A container, covered or uncovered, used in conjunction with the
drilling or production of gas or other hydrocarbons for holding or storing
fluids.
   TECHNICAL ADVISOR.  A person(s) familiar with and educated in the gas
industry or the law as it relates to gas matters that may be retained from time
to time by the town.
   TPH.  Acronym that stands for total petroleum hydrocarbon. Term used for any
mixture of hydrocarbons that are found in crude oil. Chemicals that occur in
TPH include hexane, benzene, toluene, xylenes, naphthalene, and fluorine, other
constituents of gasoline, of jet fuels, of mineral oils, and of other petroleum
products.
   TPY.  Acronym for tons per year.
   VOCs.  Acronym for Volatile Organic Compounds. Volatile organic compounds
(VOCs) means any compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide,
carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which
participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions, except those designated by
EPA as having negligible photochemical reactivity.
   WELL.  Any single hole or bore to any horizon, formation, or strata, for the
purpose of producing gas, liquid hydrocarbon, brine water or sulphur water, or
for use as an injection well for secondary recovery, disposal or production of
gas, or other hydrocarbons from the earth. For each separate new hole a gas
well permit is required.
   WIRE LINE LOGGING.  The use of radioactive isotopes which are used when
measuring formations within the immediate vicinity of the drilling hole. A
permit will be required through the Gas Inspector.
   WORKOVER.  To perform one or more of a variety of remedial operations on a
producing well to try to increase production. Examples of WORKOVER operations
are deepening, plugging back, pulling and resetting liner, squeeze cement and
similar activities.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.003  GAS INSPECTOR AND TOWN OVERSIGHT.
   (A)   The Town Administrator may employ a Gas Inspector who shall enforce
the provisions of this chapter and all applicable laws, rules, regulations,
standards or directives of the town or state. Any Inspector shall have a degree
in or extensive experience in petroleum engineering with experience in the gas
industry and must demonstrate a proven background in the drilling, production,
and operation of natural gas development, drilling and production. The Gas
Inspector shall have the authority to issue any orders or directives required
to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter and its particular
provisions. Failure of any person to comply with any such order or directive
shall constitute a violation of this chapter. In the event the town has no Gas
Inspector appointed or available at times called for in this chapter, then all
references to Gas Inspector shall mean the Town Administrator.
   (B)   The Gas Inspector shall have the authority to enter and inspect any
premises covered by the provisions of this chapter, at any time, to determine
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and all applicable laws, rules,
regulations, standards or directives of the state and to issue citations for
violations of this chapter. Failure of any person to permit access to the Gas
Inspector shall constitute a violation of this chapter. The Gas Inspector shall
conduct periodic inspections at least once a year of all permitted wells in the
town to determine that the wells are operating in accordance within proper
safety parameters as set out in this chapter and all regulations of the
Commission.
   (C)   The Gas Inspector shall have the authority to request and receive any
records, including any records sent to the Commission, logs, reports and the
like, relating to the status or condition of any permitted well necessary to
establish and determine compliance with the applicable gas well permit. Failure
of any person to provide any such requested material shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The Gas Inspector shall have the authority to allow alternatives
to the technical standards
of this chapter related to public safety and welfare, such as new technology,
if the operator has demonstrated to the Gas Inspector's satisfaction that the
alternatives provide equal or greater protection of the environment or public.
      (2)   To determine the acceptability of equivalent technologies,
processes, products, facilities, materials and uses as they pertain to gas
matters, the Inspector is authorized to require the operator to provide,
without charge to the town, a technical opinion and report. The opinion and
report shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or
specialty organization acceptable to the Inspector. The opinion and report
shall analyze the properties of the technology, process, product, facility,
material or use and provide a recommendation as to its applicability in the
operator's particular set of circumstances. The Inspector is authorized to
require design submittals to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of a registered
design professional.
   (E)   The Inspector shall have the authority to require the use of
soundproofing methods to ensure compliance with the noise restrictions required
by this chapter.

   (F)   The costs for such services shall be assessed against and paid for by
such operators of drilling operations in the town in addition to any fees or
charges assessed pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.004  OPERATOR’S AGENT.
   Every operator of any gas well shall designate an agent, who is a resident
of the State of Texas, upon whom all orders and notices provided in this
chapter may be served in person or by registered or certified mail. Every
operator so designating such agent shall notify the Inspector in writing of any
change in such agent, mailing address and/or telephone number within five days
from the change, unless operations within the town are discontinued.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.005  TECHNICAL ADVISOR.
   The town may from time to time employ a technical advisor who is experienced
and educated in the gas industry or the law as it pertains to gas matters. The
function of such advisor(s) shall be to advise, counsel or represent the town
on such matters relating to gas operations within the town as the town may want
or require and the effect thereof, both present and future, on the health,
welfare, comfort and safety of the citizens of the town. In the event such
technical advisor(s) is employed for the purpose of advising, counseling or
representing the town relative to an operator's unique and particular set of
circumstances, case or request relating to this chapter, then the cost for such
services of such technical advisor(s) shall be assessed against and paid for by
such operator in addition to any fees or charges assessed pursuant to this
chapter. Prior to the employment of a technical advisor, the town shall inform
the operator of the intended scope of work and the estimated costs and
expenses. The employment of a technical advisor shall be approved by the City
Council.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.006  APPEALS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have and exercise the power to hear and
determine appeals where it is alleged there is error or abuse of discretion
regarding the issuance of a gas well permit or the revocation or suspension of
any gas well permit issued hereunder as provided by this chapter. Any person or
entity whose application is denied by the Inspector (other than for distance
requirements set out in this chapter) or whose gas well permit is suspended or
revoked or whose well or equipment is deemed by the Inspector to be abandoned
may, within 30 days of the date of the written decision of the Inspector, file
an appeal to the City Council in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   An appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed in triplicate with
the Gas Inspector or the Town Manager. The grounds for appeal must be set forth
specifically by the appellant; and
      (2)   Within 30 days of receipt of the notice of appeal, the Town Manager
shall place the matter on the City Council agenda for hearing and give notice
by mail of the time, place and purpose thereof to appellant and any other party
who has requested in writing to be so notified. No other notice need be given.
   (B)   Appeal fees shall be required for every appeal in the amount as
approved by resolution of the Lakeside City Council.
   (C)   The City Council may accept, reject or modify the decision of the
Inspector based on its determination of whether compliance with this chapter,
was met by the appellant.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
GAS WELL PERMITS
§ 154.020  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person acting either for himself or
acting as agent, employee, independent contractor, or servant for any person to
drill any well, assist in any way in the site preparation, re-working,
completion or operation of any well or to conduct any activity related to the
production of gas without first obtaining a gas well permit issued by the town
in accordance with this chapter. Activities include, but are not limited to re-
working, initial site preparation, drilling, operation, construction of rigs or
tank batteries, and fracturing. A permit shall be required for seismic surveys
on public property. Written notice must be given to the Inspector no less than
ten days before the activities begin.
   (B)   An operator must apply for and obtain a gas well permit for the
drilling, re-drilling, deepening, re-entering, or activating of each well bore
even if the bore is on a pad site already in existence. Prior to any activity
associated with future fracture stimulation, or any other activity of
significance, the town requires the operator provide 72 hours written notice to
the Town Administrator or inspector prior to such activity.
   (C)   A gas well permit shall not constitute authority for the re-entering
of an abandoned well. An operator shall obtain a new gas well permit in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter if the operator is re-entering
an abandoned well.
   (D)   When a gas well permit has been issued to the operator for the
drilling, re-drilling, deepening, re-entering, activating or converting of a
well, such gas well permit shall constitute sufficient authority for drilling,
completion, operation, production, gathering or maintenance, repair, reworking,
testing, plugging and abandonment of the well and/or any other activity
associated with mineral exploration at the site of such well as set out in the
permit, provided, however, that a new or supplemental permit shall be obtained
before such well may be reworked for purposes of re-drilling, deepening, or
converting such well to a depth or use other than that set forth in the then
current permit for such well. Prior to any activity associated with future
fracture stimulation, or any other activity of significance, the town requires
the operator provide 72 hours written notice to the Town Administrator or
inspector prior to such activity.
   (E)   Any person who intends to re-work a permitted well using a drilling
rig, or to recomplete or fracture stimulate a permitted well after initial
completion or to conduct seismic surveys or other exploration activities, shall
give written notice to the Inspector no less than ten days before the
activities begin. The notice must identify where the activities will be
conducted and must describe the activities in detail, including whether
explosive charges will be used, the duration of the activities and the time the
activities will be conducted. The notice must also provide the address and 24-
hour phone number of the person conducting the activities. If requested by the
Inspector, the person conducting the activities will post a sign on the
property giving the public notice of the activities, including the name,
address and 24-hour phone number of the person conducting the activities. If
the Inspector determines that an inspection is necessary, the operator will pay
the town for the inspection. The following requirements shall apply to all
fracture stimulation operations performed on a well within 600 feet of a
protected use:
      (1)   At least 48 hours before operations are commenced, the operator
shall post a sign at the entrance of the well site advising the public of the
date the operations will commence;
      (2)   Flowback operations to recover fluids used during fracture
stimulation shall be performed during daytime hours only unless the Inspector
approves such operations during nighttime hours;
      (3)   A watchman shall be required at all times during such operations;
and
      (4)   At no time shall the well be allowed to flow or vent directly to
the atmosphere without first directing the flow through separation equipment or
into a portable tank.
   (F)   A gas well permit shall automatically terminate, unless extended, if
drilling is not commenced within 180 days from the date of the issuance of the
gas well permit. A gas well permit may be extended by the Inspector for an
additional 180 days upon request by the operator and proof that the
classification of the requested gas well permit for such location has not
changed.
   (G)   The gas well permits required by this chapter are in addition to and
are not in lieu of any permit which may be required by any other provision of
this code or by any other governmental agency.
   (H)   No gas well permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled within
any floodway, as defined in this code of ordinances, and as identified by FEMA
on the most current FIRM.
   (I)   Set back requirements.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to drill any well, the center of which, at the
surface of the ground, is located:
         (a)   Within 600 from any playgrounds, competition athletic fields,
swimming pools, water slides and playgrounds, concession stands, pavilions or
public picnic areas with a public park unless prior consent is obtained from
the City Council to drill in a public park;
         (b)   Within 600 from a protected use for which a building permit has
been issued on or before the date of the application for a drilling permit.
This includes residences, religious institutions, public buildings, retail or
commercial buildings, hospitals or schools;
         (c)   Within 50 feet of any public street, road, highway, or right-of-
way line;
         (d)   Within 200 feet to any fresh water well. The measurement shall
be in a direct line from the closest well bore to the fresh water well bore.
The reduction of the distance requirement for fresh water wells is subject to
the Railroad Commission regulations and any other state or federal
requirements;
         (e)   Within 150 feet of any property line;
         (f)   Within 150 feet from a railroad right-of-way;
         (g)   Within 25 feet from any outer boundary line of the drill well
site;
         (h)   Within 25 feet from any storage tank, or source of ignition; or
         (i)   Within 100 feet of any building accessory to, but not necessary
to the operation of the well.
      (2)   Tank batteries, well facilities and equipment shall be located at
least 100 feet from an existing protected use or a protected use for which a
building permit has been issued on the date of the application for a drilling
permit is filed. The distance shall be calculated from the closest tank
batteries, well facilities and/or equipment, in a straight line, without regard
to intervening structures or objects, to the property line of the building.
      (3)   The measurement of all distances shall be calculated from the well
bore, in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
to the closest exterior point of the object listed above. The above
calculations shall be prepared by a registered professional land surveyor.
   (J)   (1)   It is provided that an application may be made to reduce the
set-back requirement and such application shall be considered and determined by
the City Council. When such application is received, the City Secretary shall
determine a time to place the item on the agenda of the City Council for public
hearing, subject to the notice requirements contained herein.
      (2)   At least 15 days, and no more than 25 days prior to the date of the
public hearing before the City Council for the reduction in the set back
distance, the town and the applicant shall notify each surface owner of
property, as shown by the current tax roll, within 600 feet of the proposed
well site not owned by or under lease to the operator of the hearing date and
time. Such notice, as outlined below, shall be by depositing the same, properly
addressed and postage paid, in the United States mail. Notice shall be sent to
all registered neighborhood associations within one mile of the proposed drill
site.
      (3)   No more than 20 days prior to the date of the public hearing before
City Council for a variance in the set back distance, the applicant shall
publish a copy of the notice as outlined below, at operator’s expense, in one
issue of the Fort Worth Star Telegram Town for seven consecutive days and shall
publish such notice at least two consecutive weeks in the Azle News, with the
last date of publication in the Azle News being no more than 7 days prior to
the public hearing. The operator shall certify that it has met these
publication dates at the public hearing. The notice shall read as follows:
Notice is hereby given that, acting under and pursuant to the Ordinances of the
Town of Lakeside, Texas, on the        day  of                        2     
filed with the Town Secretary of the Town of Lakeside, an application for a
variance from the well set back requirements of the Ordinances in order to
obtain a gas well permit to drill, complete and operate a well for gas upon
property located at                                                           
  ,                            County, Lakeside, Texas, more particularly shown
on the map of record  in Volume                    , Page            , Plat
records of                              County, Texas. The request for variance
asks that the City Council reduce the set back from 600 feet to           
feet from the nearest {'{'}residence, building, or whatever is most applicable
{'}'}. The City Council will conduct a public hearing on the request for said
permit on the          day of                    , 2         at         
o’clock   .m. in the Town Council Chamber located at 9830 Confederate Park
Road, Lakeside, Texas.
      (4)   At least 20 days prior to the date of the public hearing before
City Council for the set back variance, the applicant shall, at applicant’s
expense, erect at least one town-approved sign, no less than two feet by three
feet, upon the premises where the variance has been requested. The sign or sign
shall be located in a conspicuous place or places upon the property where it
can be seen and read from a point or points nearest the right-of-way, street,
roadway or public thoroughfare adjacent to such property.
      (5)   The sign(s) shall substantially indicate that a variance from the
set back distance of 600 feet has been sought by the applicant and state the
time and place of the public hearing, and shall further set forth that
additional information can be acquired by telephoning the applicant/operator at
the number indicated on the sign or by calling the Lakeside Town Hall and
giving the telephone number of the Town Hall.
      (6)   After an application for a set back variance is submitted, the
Inspector shall evaluate the public impact of the proposed activity. The
Inspector shall consider the proposed site and the proposed operations or
drilling program and shall give its recommendation to the City Council. The
recommendation shall be submitted to the City Council for consideration prior
to the public hearing.
      (7)   At the public hearing and before the City Council considers the
merits of the application and the recommendations of the Inspector, the
applicant/operator shall provide evidence of a certificate of publication
establishing timely publication of the notice of the hearing, that timely
actual notice of the hearing was given to all persons as required by this
chapter.
      (8)   The burden of proof on all matters considered in the hearing shall
be upon the applicant/operator.
      (9)   The City Council shall review the application and any other related
information. The City Council shall consider the following in deciding whether
to grant a variance from the set back requirement:
         (a)   Whether the operations proposed are reasonable under the
circumstances and conditions prevailing in the area considering the particular
location and the character of the improvements located there;
         (b)   Whether the drilling of such wells would conflict with the
orderly growth and development of the town;
         (c)   Whether there are other alternative well site locations;
         (d)   Whether the operations proposed are consistent with the health,
safety and welfare of the public when and if conducted in accordance with any
gas well permit conditions to be imposed;
         (e)   Whether there is accessible access for the town fire personnel
and fire fighting equipment; and
         (f)   Whether the impact upon the adjacent property and the general
public by operations conducted in compliance with the gas well permit
conditions are reasonable and justified.
      (10)   If a variance is granted by the City Council, it may impose such
conditions in granting a gas well permit as it, in its discretion, deems
appropriate and in the best interest of the citizens of the town.
   (K)   The measurement of all distances shall be calculated from the well
bore, in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
to the closest exterior point of the object listed above. The above
calculations shall be prepared by a registered professional land surveyor.
   (L)   By acceptance of any gas well permit issued pursuant to this chapter,
the operator expressly stipulates and agrees to be bound by and comply with the
provisions of this chapter. The terms of this chapter shall be deemed to be
incorporated in any gas well permit issued pursuant to this chapter with the
same force and effect as if this chapter was set forth verbatim in such gas
well permit.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.021  APPLICATION AND FILING FEES.
   (A)   Every application for a permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be in writing signed by the operator, or some person duly authorized to sign on
his or her behalf, and filed with the Town Administrator. A total of eight
copies of the application shall be submitted with at least three copies in a
three-ring binder. The application should include a table of contents and be
tabbed to indicate the different sections of the application as listed in table
of contents.
   (B)   (1)   Every application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable
permit fee. The permit fee shall be set by resolution of the Lakeside City
Council, as amended from time to time, and the most current resolution is
incorporated herein for all purposes.
      (2)   The town, at its sole discretion, may elect to utilize a qualified
third party to conduct any inspections required by this chapter, or for annual
inspections or reviews or in response to complaints that require professional
consultation or field sampling activities.
      (3)   Any fee charges by any and all third party inspectors, laboratories
or professional consultants shall be the responsibility of the operator and
shall be paid to the town within 30 days of receipt of an invoice from the
town.
   (C)   The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   All application fees and other fees required by this chapter;
      (2)   Completed and signed application form containing at least the
following information:
         (a)   Date of the application;
         (b)   Proposed well name;
         (c)   Surface owner names(s) and address(es) of the lease property;
         (d)   Mineral lessee name and address;
         (e)   Applicant/operator name and address and if the operator is a
corporation, the state of incorporation, address, officer’s names and
addresses, registered agent and address and articles of incorporation; and if
the operator is a partnership, the names and addresses of the general and
limited partners. Copies of any “doing business as” filings;
         (f)   Name and address of individual designated to receive notice;
         (g)   Name of operator representative with supervisory authority over
all gas operation site activities and a 24-hour phone number;
         (h)   The name, address and 24-hour phone number of the person to be
notified in case of an emergency;
         (i)   The exact acreage of the drill site and number of bores included
in the gas well permit application or anticipated to be drilled, assuming
successful completion of the first well;
         (j)   A copy of a contract with the town’s solid waste hauler for
removal of solid waste;
         (k)   Disposal of any and all waste and materials from operations on
the pad site will be removed from the town’s limits and disposed of according
to local, state, and federal regulations;
         (l)   A copy of the agreement with the owner/operator of the water
source to be used during drilling and fracturing operations;
         (m)   A copy of an erosion control plan;
         (n)   A copy of a dust control plan;
         (o)   A copy of the private road design;
         (p)   A report detailing all private water wells within 1,000 feet of
the pad site boundary and method for which such information was obtained. The
failure to identify any nonregistered well will not be considered a violation
of this chapter if the operator includes a private well information request as
part of the well application notices required by this chapter;
         (q)   A vector control plan that details all measures that will be
taken to ensure that any fracture pond will not become a site for mosquito
harborage. The plan shall list all planned measures for mosquito abatement
activities, including any biological/chemical control applications or water
level control measures;
         (r)   A copy of the location of the noise blankets facing all
residences and on the drilling rig. Depict the hospital grade muffler or
equivalent control device. Cite the approved company to conduct the field noise
study within ten days of drilling;
         (s)   A leak detection and compliance plan to ensure all site
activities and equipment are in compliance with applicable rules and
regulations. This plan should outline methodology to assess and evaluate the
impact of drilling, fracturing, production, and other activities at the padsite
and immediate surroundings. Specific elements shall include, but is not be
limited to: a quarterly leak detection monitoring program, methods and
equipment for emission measurements, and a response plan to address issues, if
they arise, and any other information as required by the town’s inspector.
Monitoring shall include evaluation of potential impact to air, soil, surface
water, or groundwater. Quarterly reporting of the monitoring results to the
town is required with all laboratory data sheets, field logs, data summaries,
and actions taken in the previous period;
         (t)   A pipeline map indicating the location of the nearest gathering
station and the alignment of the pipeline(s) or proposed pipelines connecting
the operation site to the gathering stations;
         (u)   An emergency action response plan establishing written
procedures to minimize any hazard resulting from drilling, completion or
producing of gas wells. The plan shall use existing guidelines established by
the Railroad Commission, Texas Commission on Environmental Quality, Department
of Transportation, and/or the Environmental Protection Agency. The plan should
include drive-to-maps from public rights-of-way to drill site;
         (v)   A hazardous materials management plan shall be submitted and be
on file with the Fire Department and the Inspector;
         (w)   The operator shall be responsible for establishing and reporting
to the city the pre-drilling ambient noise level prior to the issuance of a gas
well permit. A 72 noise study shall be utilized to establish ambient noise
levels. The 72-hour time span shall include at least one 24-hour reading during
either a Saturday or Sunday. The timeframe for this study shall be designed to
avoid the influence of wind interference on the study. The determination as to
whether subsequent studies are needed to reevaluate ambient noise conditions
shall be at the sole discretion of the Town Administrator. The applicant shall
submit a proposed ambient noise level study plan to the town for approval prior
to conducting the study. The proposed plan shall contain a proposed testing
schedule. Once the drilling is complete, the operator shall be required to
establish a new ambient noise level prior to the installation of any new noise
generation equipment;
         (x)   An emissions control/reduction plan shall be submitted to the
town as part of the application package. The plan shall outline policies,
practices, procedures, and equipment in sufficient detail to illustrate
compliance with any federal, state or local law or ordinance, and industry best
management practices regarding air quality. At a minimum, the plan shall
include the following:
            1.   Name, location, and operator of well;
            2.   A detailed description of the operational steps used to ensure
compliance with best management practices;
            3.   A detailed description of the maintenance program of equipment
utilized at the well site; and
            4.   Description of the emission monitoring program or voluntary
leak detection program; and
         (y)   A notarized statement signed by the operator, or designated
representative, that the information submitted with the application is, to the
best knowledge and belief of the operator or designated representative, true
and correct;
      (3)   A site plan that includes the following information:
         (a)   Location and description of all buildings within 600 feet of the
well and a site plan on an aerial map that indicates the distances of all
applicable setbacks to structures, protected uses, freshwater wells,
waterbodies, public streets, and all other applicable setbacks;
         (b)   Map showing proposed transportation routes and roads for
equipment, water, chemicals or waste products used or produced by the gas
operation. The map shall include a list of the length of all public roads that
will be used to access the site. The map shall also show the location of any
areas to be used for truck staging or storage related to the drill site;
         (c)   A site plan of the proposed drill site and operation site
showing the location of all improvements and equipment, including the location
of the proposed well(s) and other facilities, including, but not limited to,
fire hydrants proposed to supply water to the site, tanks, pipelines, lights,
floodways, compressors, separators and storage sheds;
         (d)   A detailed site plan that includes specific details to the
projected location of the major components of the drilling site, impacted
vegetation, creeks and other topographic features, adjacent building and other
structures and the measured distance from the well site to these buildings and
structures, temporary and permanent fencing and landscaping; and
         (e)   Location of lights on well pad site;
      (4)   A description of public utilities proposed to be used during
drilling and operation;
      (5)   A description of the water source to be used during drilling, an
estimate of the total volume of water needed, and the approximate dates the
water supply will be needed at the site;
      (6) A copy of the approved Railroad Commission permit to drill together
with attachments and survey plats which are applicable to the drill and
operation sites;
      (7)   A copy of any storm water pollution prevention plan required by the
Environmental Protection Agency. A copy of the notice of intent shall be
submitted to the Town of Lakeside, three days prior to the commencement of any
onsite activity;
      (8)   An accurate legal description of the lease property to be used for
the gas operation, the parcel and the production unit and name of the geologic
formation as used by the Railroad Commission. Property recorded by plat should
reference subdivision, block and lot numbers;
      (9)   A copy of the determination by the Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality of the depth of useable quality ground water; and
      (10)   The insurance and security requirement documents under this
chapter.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.022  PERMIT REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of the Inspector to review and approve or
disapprove all applications for gas well drilling permits based on the criteria
established by this chapter. The Inspector, within 30 days after the filing of
a completed application and remittance of all fees, insurance and security per
the requirements of this chapter for a gas well permit, shall determine whether
or not the application complies in all respects with the provisions of this
chapter and shall determine if the proposed well to be drilled or the facility
to be installed is in compliance with the requirements for the requested gas
well permit.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any dwellings or
buildings for which an application for a building permit has been submitted on
the date the application for a gas well permit is filed with the Inspector.
   (C)   Within 30 days of the Inspector’s determination that the application
complies with all requirements, the Inspector shall place the matter on the
City Council agenda for a public hearing and give notice by mail of the time,
place and purpose thereof to the applicant and any other party who has
requested in writing to be so notified. The 30-day period shall not begin to
run until the Inspector has made a determination that the application complies
with all requirements.
   (D)   At least 15 days, and no more than 25 days prior to the date of the
public hearing before the City Council for a gas well permit under this
chapter, the town and the operator shall notify each surface owner of property,
as shown by the current tax roll, within 600 feet of the proposed well site not
owned by or under lease to the operator of the hearing date and time. The
notice, as outlined below, shall be by depositing the same, properly addressed
and postage paid, in the United States mail. Notice shall be sent to all
registered neighborhood associations within one mile of the proposed drill
site.
   (E)   At least 15 days, and no more than 20 days prior to the date of the
public hearing before City Council for a gas well permit under this chapter,
operator shall publish a copy of the notice as outlined below, at operator’s
expense, in one issue of the Fort Worth Star Telegram Town for seven
consecutive days and shall be published at least two consecutive weeks in the
Azle News, with the last date of publication in the Azle News being at least
five days prior to the public hearing. The operator shall certify that it has
met these publication dates at the public hearing. The notice shall read as
follows:
Notice is hereby given that, acting under and pursuant to the Ordinances of the
Town of Lakeside, Texas, on the      day of                    20    ,         
                filed with the Town Secretary of the Town of Lakeside, an
application for a gas well permit to drill, complete and operate a well for gas
upon property located  at                                            ,         
                    County, Lakeside, Texas, more particularly shown on the map
of record in Volume                  , Page        , Plat records of           
            County, Texas or per Tax Tract Number                ,             
       County, Texas. The City Council will conduct a public hearing on the
request for said permit on the      day of                      , 20      at   
      o’clock  .m. in the Town Council Chamber located at 9830 Confederate Park
Road, Lakeside, Texas.
   (F)   At least 20 days prior to the date of the public hearing before City
Council for a gas well permit the operator shall, at operator’s expense, erect
at least one town-approved sign, no less than two feet by three feet, upon the
premises upon which a gas well permit has been requested. Where possible, the
sign or signs shall be located in a conspicuous place or places upon the
property at a point or points nearest any right-of-way, street, roadway or
public thoroughfare adjacent to such property.
      (1)   The sign(s) shall substantially indicate that a I permit to perform
the activity sought by the operator has been requested and state the time and
place of the public hearing, and shall further set forth that additional
information can be acquired by telephoning the applicant/operator at the number
indicated on the sign.
      (2)   The continued maintenance of any such sign(s) shall not be deemed a
condition precedent to the holding of any public hearing or to any other
official action concerning this chapter.
      (3)   Any sign(s) shall be removed within seven days of final action by
the City Council.
   (G)   All notice provisions contained herein shall be deemed sufficient upon
substantial compliance with this section.
   (H)   After a permit application is submitted, the Inspector shall evaluate
the public impact of the proposed activity. The Inspector shall consider the
proposed site and the proposed operations or drilling program and shall draft
recommended restrictions or conditions, including minimum separation distance
for drilling or other operations, special safety equipment and procedures,
recommended noise reduction levels, screening and any other requirements the
Inspector deems appropriate. The recommendation shall be submitted to the City
Council for consideration prior to the public hearing.
   (I)   At the public hearing and before the City Council considers the merits
of the application and the recommendations of the Inspector, the applicant/
operator shall provide evidence of a certificate of publication establishing
timely publication of the notice of the hearing, that timely actual notice of
the hearing was given to all persons as required by this chapter and that the
applicant/operator has otherwise complied with or satisfied all other
requirements of this chapter, including full and complete compliance with the
insurance and security requirements.
   (J)   The burden of proof on all matters considered in the hearing shall be
upon the applicant/operator.
   (K)   The City Council shall review the application and any other related
information. The City Council shall consider the following in deciding whether
to grant a gas well permit:
      (1)   Whether the operations proposed are reasonable under the
circumstances and conditions prevailing in the area considering the particular
location and the character of the improvements located there;
      (2)   Whether the drilling of such wells would conflict with the orderly
growth and development of the town;
      (3)   Whether there are other alternative well site locations;
      (4)   Whether the operations proposed are consistent with the health,
safety and welfare of the public when and if conducted in accordance with the
gas well permit conditions to be imposed;
      (5)   Whether there is accessible access for the town fire personnel and
fire fighting equipment;
      (6)   Whether the impact upon the adjacent property and the general
public by operations conducted in compliance with the gas well permit
conditions are reasonable and justified, balancing the following factors:
         (a)   The right of the owners(s) of the mineral estate to explore,
develop, and produce the minerals; and
         (b)   The availability of alternative drill sites; and
      (7)   The recommendations of the Inspector.
   (L)   The City Council may require an increase in the distance the well is
set back from any protected use or require any change in operation, plan,
design, layout or any change in the on-site and technical regulations,
including but not limited to those contained in §§
154.055 and
154.056 of this chapter, and including fencing, screening, lighting, delivery
times as well as other trucking activity times, noise levels, tank height, or
any other matters reasonably required by public interest.
   (M)   In making its decision, the City Council shall have the power and
authority to refuse any gas well permit to drill any well at any particular
location within the town, when by reason of such particular location and other
characteristics, the drilling of such wells at such particular location would
be injurious to the health, safety or welfare of the inhabitants in the
immediate area of the town.
   (N)   The City Council may accept, reject or modify the application in the
interest of securing compliance with this chapter, the city code and/or to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the community.
   (O)   If the operator elects not to accept the gas well permit under the
terms and conditions imposed by the City Council and wishes to withdraw his or
her application, the operator must notify the Inspector in writing of his or
her decision.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.023  DENIAL OF GAS WELL APPLICATION.
   (A)   If the Inspector denies a gas well permit application for reasons
other than lack of required distance as set out in this chapter for the
requested gas well permit, he shall notify the operator in writing of such
denial stating the reasons for the denial. Within 30 days of the date of the
written decision of the Inspector to deny the gas well permit, the operator
may:
      (1)   Cure those conditions that caused the denial and resubmit the
application to the Inspector for approval; or
      (2)   File an appeal to the City Council under the provisions outlined in
this chapter pursuant to §
154.006.
   (B)   If the Inspector determines that all of the provisions of this chapter
have been complied with by the operator but that the proposed drill site does
not comply with the distance requirements of this chapter under the requested
gas well permit, the Inspector shall notify the operator. The operator may
revise the permit to comply or the Inspector shall notify the official
designated by the Town Manager and the official shall place the request for a
gas well permit under this chapter on the City Council agenda for public
hearing within the next 45 days.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.024  AMENDED GAS WELL PERMITS.
   (A)   An operator may submit an application to the Inspector to amend an
existing gas well permit to relocate a drill site or operation site that is
shown on (or incorporated by reference as part of) the existing gas well
permit, or to otherwise amend the existing gas well permit. Any change to a
permit, including a change in operator, transfer of lease, or the route of
pipeline must also go through the amended well permit process. An operator must
submit an application to commence drilling from a new drill site that is not
shown on (or incorporated by reference as part of) an existing gas well permit.
   (B)   Applications for amended gas well permits shall be in writing, shall
be signed by the operator, and shall include the following:
      (1)   A non-refundable amended application for permit fee as approved by
resolution of the Lakeside City Council. The applicant/operator, in addition to
the usual application fee, shall pay the town for the actual cost to the town
for the services of an inspector and/or technical expert to review the
application and/or information supplement; Additional services the town incurs
for services of an inspector, laboratory and/or technical expert shall be paid
by the operator at the standard rate plus expenses;
      (2)   A description of the proposed amendments;
      (3)   Any changes to the information submitted with the application for
the existing gas well permit (if such information has not previously been
provided to the town);
      (4)   Such additional information as is reasonably required by the
Inspector to demonstrate compliance with the applicable gas well permit; and
      (5)   Such additional information as is reasonably required by the
Inspector to prevent imminent destruction of property or injury to persons.
   (C)   All applications for amended gas well permits shall be filed with the
Inspector for review. Incomplete applications may be returned to the applicant,
in which case the town shall provide a written explanation of the deficiencies;
however, the town shall retain the application fee. The town may return any
application as incomplete if there is a dispute pending before the Railroad
Commission regarding the determination of the operator.
   (D)   If the activities proposed by the amendment are not materially
different from the activities covered by the existing gas well permit, and if
the proposed activities are in conformance with the applicable gas well permit,
then the Inspector shall approve the amendment within 20 days after the
application is filed.
   (E)   If the activities proposed by the amendment are materially different
from the activities covered by the existing gas well permit, and if the
proposed activities are in conformance with the applicable gas well permit,
then the Inspector shall approve the amendment within 30 days after the
application is filed. If, however, the activities proposed by the amendment are
materially different and, in the judgment of the Inspector, might create a risk
of imminent destruction of property or injury to persons that was not
associated with the activities covered by the existing gas well permit or that
was not otherwise taken into consideration by the existing gas well permit, the
Inspector may require the amendment to be processed as a new gas well permit
application.
   (F)   The failure of the Inspector to review and issue an amended gas well
permit within the time limits specified above shall not cause the application
for the amended gas well permit to be deemed approved.
   (G)   The decision of the Inspector to deny an amendment to a gas well
permit shall be provided to the operator in writing within ten days after the
decision, including an explanation of the basis for the decision. The operator
may appeal any such denial to the City Council.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.025  SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF GAS WELL PERMIT; EFFECT.
   (A)   Operator shall comply at all times with all applicable federal, state
and town laws, regulations and rules. If an operator (or its officers,
employees, agents, contractors, or representatives) fails to comply with any
requirement of a gas well permit, the operator is subject to immediate
citation, injunction, abatement or any other remedy permitted by law. When
possible under the circumstance, the Inspector or other designated town
employee or representative shall give written notice to the operator specifying
the nature of the failure and giving the operator a reasonable time to cure,
taking into consideration the nature and extent of the failure, the extent of
the efforts required to cure, and the potential impact on the health, safety,
and welfare of the community.
   (B)   If the operator fails to comply within ten days after notice, or fails
to comply immediately if there is an imminent health and safety issue as
determined by the sole discretion of the Inspector or other designated town
representative, the Inspector may suspend or revoke the gas well permit
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall carry on any operations performed under the terms of
the gas well permit issued under this chapter during any period of any gas well
permit suspension or revocation or pending a review of the decision or order of
the town in suspending or revoking the gas well permit. Nothing contained
herein shall be construed to prevent the necessary, diligent and bona fide
efforts to cure and remedy the default or violation for which the suspension or
revocation of the gas well permit was ordered for the safety of persons or as
required by the Railroad Commission.
   (D)   If the operator does not cure the noncompliance within the time
specified in this chapter or immediately if there is an imminent health or
safety condition, the Inspector may notify the Railroad Commission and request
that the Railroad Commission take any appropriate action.
   (E)   In addition to all other remedies, citations and other action that may
be taken as allowed or permitted by this chapter, the town may apply to a court
of competent jurisdiction to obtain injunctive relief or such other relied as
may be available by law.
   (F)   Operator may file an appeal in writing directed to the City Council
within 30 days of the date of the decision of the Inspector in writing to
suspend or revoke a gas well permit. Until the City Council renders its
decision, the suspension or revocation shall remain in effect.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.026  PERIODIC REPORTS.
   (A)   The operator shall notify the Inspector of any changes to the
following information within one business week after the change occurs:
      (1)   The name, address, and phone number of the operator;
      (2)   The name, address, and phone number of the person designated to
receive notices from the town; and
      (3)   The operator’s emergency action response plan (including drive-to
maps from public rights-of-way to each drill site).
   (B)   The operator shall notify the Inspector of any change to the name,
address, and 24-hour phone number of the person(s) with supervisory authority
over drilling or operations activities within one business day.
   (C)   The operator shall provide a copy of any incident reports or written
complaints submitted to the Railroad Commission within 30 days after the
operator has notice of the existence of such reports or complaints.
   (D)   Beginning on the first anniversary date of each well after it is
permitted by the town, the operator shall provide an operational status report
for every well permitted to the operator within the town. The report shall
include the well name, API Number, lease name, city case number, commission
permit number, commission lease ID number and current status whether pending,
drilling, completing, producing, plugged or abandoned.
   (E)   Semi-annually (or more often if recommended by the technical experts
employed by the city or by the Inspector), at the expense of the operator, air
sampling and testing will be performed at the well site and a report generated
for comparison to previous reports. Air sampling reports shall be reviewed by
the town and/or a technical expert to determine whether the levels of compounds
found in the report pose a health risk. If so, the town may impose measures
upon the facility to rectify the situation. This applies to all wells in
existence at the time of passage of this chapter as well as all future wells.
This requirement shall be for the life of the well and until same is plugged.
   (F)   If the town responds to a reported emission leak and verifies a leak
has or is occurring, the operator shall submit to the town an after-action
report outlining, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   Location and date of the incident;
      (2)   Cause of the incident and equipment involved;
      (3)   Analysis of the quantity of emissions released by compound; and
      (4)   Repair/remediation efforts taken to minimize the potential of
similar incidents.
   (G)   The operator shall be required to pay an annual administrative fee for
each gas well permit. The annual administrative fee shall be set by resolution
of the City Council. The fee shall be paid on or before the anniversary date of
the issuance of the original gas well permit for that particular well. If the
operator fails to pay such fee as required, then the permit and right to
operate the well shall only be re-instated upon satisfactory inspection and the
payment of an additional $500 administrative fee for each 30-day period in
which the permit has been allowed to lapse.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.027  ROAD DAMAGE ASSESSMENT AND FEE AND CALCULATION.
   (A)   A gas well permit shall not be issued for any well to be drilled until
the operator has paid a road damage fee, as established by resolution from time
to time by the City Council and the most current resolution is incorporated
herein for all purposes. The road damage fee shall be paid by the operator to
the town prior to the commencement of any activity under the gas well permit.
The road damage fee is based on the road damage assessment study prepared for
the town and available in the Town Secretary’s office. The road damage fee
shall be calculated based on the access lane miles for the appropriate road
type, the assessment per lane mile, and the number of lane miles included in
each gas well permit application. Replacement costs for asphalt and/or concrete
road segments shall be determined from current cost per square yard of road
surface material, including installation and labor. In any and all instances,
the calculation shall include an estimate of damage during the life of the well
that will occur to the roadway after completion that involves traffic on the
roadway necessary to produce and /or remove the gas, condensate or peripheral
oil or to remove water from the site.
   (B)   A permit shall not be issued to allow re-work of a permitted well
using a drilling rig, or to recomplete or fracture stimulate a permitted well
after initial completion or to conduct seismic surveys or other exploration
activities or to drill a new bore until the operator has paid a road damage fee
as established by resolution from time to time by the City Council. The most
current resolution is incorporated herein for all purposes. The road damage fee
shall be calculated as provided in the above division (A) of this section. In
any and all instances, the calculation shall include an estimate of damage
during the life of the well that will occur to the roadway after completion
that involves traffic on the roadway necessary to produce and /or remove the
gas, condensate or peripheral oil or to remove water from the site.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.028  AIR SAMPLING AND QUALITY.
   (A)   After a permit is approved, but prior to any construction or work
being performed at the pad site, the town, at the expense of the operator, will
retain an independent air quality monitoring company to perform an inspection
for air sampling at the location of the well site prior to pad site
construction to develop a baseline air sampling report.
   (B)   Air sampling and testing will be performed by a Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality approved laboratory.
   (C)   The method to be used for sampling and testing of the air samples is
Method TO-15 as outlined by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in
Compendium of Methods for the Determination of Toxic Organic Compounds in
Ambient Air, Second Edition, Compendium Method TO-15, Determination of Volatile
Organic Compounds (VOCs) in Air Collected and Analyzed by Gas Chromatography/
Mass Spectrometry (GC/MS). (EPA/625/R-96/010b), a copy of which is available at
http://www.epa.gov/ttnamti1/files/ambient/airtox/tocomp99.pdf or by request to
Town Hall.
   (D)   Compounds to be measured in air samples by laboratory are (according
to Method T015):
Methyl chloride (choloromethane); CH3Cl Carbonyl sulfide; COS
Vinyl chloride (chloroethene); C2H3Cl   Diazomethane; CH2N2
Formaldehyde; CH20                      l,3-Butadiene; C4H6
Methyl bromide (bromomethan); CH3Br     Phosgene; CC12O
Vinyl bromide (bromoethene); C2H3Br     Ethylene oxide; C2H4O
Ethylene oxide; C2H4O                   Ethyl chloride (chloroethane); C2H5Cl
Acetaldehyde (ethanol); C2H40           Vinylidene chloride {'{'}I, I-
                                        dichloroethylene); C2H2Cl2
Propylene oxide; C3H6O                  Methyl iodide (iodomethane); CH3l
Methylene chloride; CH2Cl2              Methylene chloride; CH2Cl2
Methyl isocyanate; C2H3NO               Allyl chloride (e-chloropropoene);
                                        C3H5Cl
Carbon disulfide; CS2                   Methyl tert-butyl ether; C5Hl20
Propionaldehyde; C2H5CHO C2H4Cl2        Ethyl idene dichloride (l,l-
                                        dichloroethane);
Chloroprene (2-chloro-1,3 butadiene);   Chloromethyl methyl ether; C2H5Cl1
C4H5Cl
Acrolein (2-propenal); C3H4O            1,2-Epoxybutane (1,2-butylene oxide);
                                        C4H80
Chloroform; CHCl3                       Ethyleneimine (aziridine); C2H5N
1,1-Dimethylhydrazine; C2H8N2           Hexane, C6H4
1,2-Propyleneimine (2-methylaziridine); Acrylonitrile (2-propeneitrile); C3H3N
C3H7N
Methyl chloroform (1,1,1-               Methanol; CH40
trichloroethane); C2H3CI3
Carbon tetrachloride; CC14              Vinyl acetate; C4H602
Methyl ethyl ketone (2-butanone); C4H80 Benzene; C6H6
Acetonitrile (cyanomethane); C2H3N      Ethylene dichloride (12-
                                        dfchloroethane); C2H4Cl2
Triethylamine; C6H15N                   Methylhydrazine; CH6N2
Propylenedichloride(1,2-                2,2,4-Trimethyl pentane C8Hl8
dichloropropane); C3H6Cl2
1,4-Dioxane (1,4-Diethylene oxide);     Bis(chloromethyl) ether; C2H4Cl20
C4H802
Ethyl acrylate; C5H802                  Ethyl acrylate; C5H802
Methyl methacrylate; C5H802             Methyl methacrylate; C5H802
1,3-Dichloropropene; C3H4Cl2 (cis)      Toulene; C7H8
Trichloroethylene; C2HCl3               1,1,2-Trichloroethane; C2H3Cl3
Epichlorohydrin (1-chloro-2,3-epoxy     Ethylene dibromide (1,2-dibromoethan);
propane); C3H5ClO                       C2H4Br2
N-Nitroso-N-methylurea; C2H5N302        2-Nitropropane; C3H7NO2
Chlorobenzene; C6H5Cl                   Ethylbenzen; C8H10
Xylenes (isomer & mixtures); C8H10      Styrene; C8H8
p-Xylene; C8H10                         m-Xylene; C8H10
Methyl isobutyl ketone (hexone); C6H12Q Bromoform (tribromomethane); C6H12O
Bromoform (tribromomethane); CHBr3      1,1,2,2-Tetrachloroethane; C2H2Cl4
o-Xylene; C8H10                         Dimethylcarbamyl chloride; C3H6ClNO
N~Nitrosodimethylamine; C2H6N2O         Beta-Propiolactone; C3H402
Cumene (isopropylbenzene); C9Hl2        Acrylic acid; C3H402
N, N-Dimethylformamide; C3H7NO          1,3Propane sultone; C3H603S
Acetephenone; C8H8O                     Dimethyl sulfate; C2H604S
Benzyl chloride (a-chlorotoluene);      1,2-Dibromo-3-chloropropane; C3H5Br2Cl
C7H7Cl
Bis(2-Chloroethyl)ether; C4H8Cl20       Chforoacetic acid; C2H3Cl02
Ethyl carbamate (urethane); C3H7NO2     Acrylamide; C3H5NO
N,N-Dimethylaniline; C8H11N             Hexachloroethane; C2Cl65
Hexachlorobutadiene, C4C16              Isophorone; C9Hl40
N-Nitrosomorpholine; C4H8N202           Styrene oxide; C8H8O
Diethyl sulfate; C4H10O4S               Cresylic acid (cresol isomer mixture);
                                        C7H8O
o-Cresol; C7H8O                         Catechol (o-hydroxyphenol); C6H6O2
Phenol; C6H6O                           1,2,4-Trichlorobenzene; C6H3Cl3
Nitrobenzene C6H5NO2
In addition, testing will include sulfur compounds by the ASTM 5504-08
method.   
 
   (E)   After the initial report is given to the town, air sampling and
testing will be performed at the well site and a report generated for
comparison to previous reports. Such sampling and reports will be performed and
given each six months or more often if the Inspector has reason to believe that
a need exists for more frequent studies. In addition, such sampling and report
will take place within 30 days after any new equipment that may affect air
quality or emission is moved onto the pad site.
   (F)   The town may employ independent third parties to perform the air
sampling and give the reports.
   (G)   All expenses and fees related to the sampling and reports shall be
borne by the operator, and shall be paid to the town within 30 days from the
date of invoicing from the town.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.029  WATER QUALITY AND SAMPLING.
   (A)   For any town owned or operated water well that is located within 2,000
feet of a well bore, the town requires, at the operator’s expense, that ground
water be sampled and tested. A report of each sampling and testing shall be
given to the town within 15 days from completion of same.
   (B)   Ground water samples will be tested pre-fracing to establish a
baseline for the water quality of the ground water source(s).
   (C)   Ground water samples will be tested post-fracing.
   (D)   Subsequent water sample testing is to be conducted on a semi-annual
basis thereafter for the life of the well to verify that the water source is
not impacted by the drilling or production operations. Sampling may be required
by the Inspector more often if there is a reasonable basis for believing that
same is necessary.
   (E)   Ground water sample testing will be performed by a Texas Commission on
Environmental Quality Certified Laboratory.
   (F)   Elements to be measured in ground water samples by laboratory are:
         BTEX (benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene, xylene)
         TPH-total petroleum hydrocarbons
         Chloride, sulfate
         Methane
         Ethane
         Barium
         Calcium
         Iron
         Magnesium
         Manganese
         Carbonate, Bicarbonate
         pH
         Specific conductance turbidity
         Total dissolved solids
         Total suspended solids
         Light gas analysis (C1-C6)
         RCRA 8 metals
         Oil and grease (HEM)
         Total sulfur
         Alcohol scan + 2-Butoxyethanol + Ethylene glycol
   (G)   Water sample test results will be reviewed by the Inspector and/or a
technical expert to determine whether the levels of compounds found in the
report pose a health risk. If so, the town may impose measures upon the
facility to rectify the situation.
   (H)   Within 180 days of its completion date, each oil or gas well shall be
equipped with a cathodic protection system to protect the production casing
from external corrosion. The Inspector may approve an alternative method of
protecting the production casing from external corrosion.
   (I)   All expenses and fees related to the sampling and reports shall be
borne by the operator, and shall be paid to the town within 30 days from the
date of invoicing from the town.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.030  INDEMNITY.
   Operators shall sign each permit and the town shall retain a signed
original. Each such permit issued by the town shall include the following
language:
“Operator does hereby expressly release and discharge, all claims, demands,
actions, judgments, and executions which it ever had, or now has or may have,
or assigns may have, or claim to have, against the Town of Lakeside, and/or its
departments, agents, officers, servants, successors, assigns, sponsors,
volunteers, or employees, created by, or arising out of personal injuries,
known or unknown, and injuries to property, real or personal, or in any way
incidental to or in connection with the performance of the work performed by
the operator under a permit. The operator shall fully defend, protect,
indemnify, and hold harmless the Town of Lakeside, Texas, its departments,
agents, officers, servants, employees, successors, assigns, sponsors, or
volunteers from and against each and every claim, demand, or cause of action
and any and all liability, damages, obligations, judgments, losses, fines,
penalties, costs, fees, and expenses incurred in defense of the Town of
Lakeside, Texas, its departments, agents, officers, servants, or employees,
including, without limitation, personal injuries and death in connection
therewith which may be made or asserted by operator, its agents, assigns, or
any third parties on account of, arising out of, or in any way incidental to or
in connection with the performance of the work performed by the operator under
a permit. The operator agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Town of
Lakeside, Texas, its departments, its officers, agents, servants, employees,
successors, assigns, sponsors, or volunteers from any liabilities or damages
suffered as a result of claims, demands, costs or judgments against the town,
its departments, its officers, agents, servants or employees, created by, or
arising out of the acts or omission of the Town of Lakeside occurring on the
drill site or operation site in the course and scope of inspecting and
permitting the wells including, but not limited to, claims and damages arising
in whole or in part from the negligence of the Town of Lakeside occurring on
the drill site or operation site in the course and scope of inspecting and
permitting gas wells.”, and
“It is understood and agreed that the indemnity provided for in this section is
an indemnity extended by the operator to indemnify and protect the Town of
Lakeside, Texas and/or its departments, agents, officers, servants, or
employees from the consequences of the negligence of the Town of Lakeside,
Texas and/or its departments, agents, officers, servants, or employees, whether
that negligence is the sole or contributing cause of the resultant injury,
death, and/or damage.”
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
INSURANCE AND BOND
§ 154.040  BOND.
   Prior to the issuance of a gas well permit the operator shall provide the
town with a security instrument in the form of a bond that is effective for the
life of the well as follows:
   (A)   A bond shall be executed by a reliable bonding or insurance
institution authorized to do business in Texas and acceptable to the town. The
bond shall become effective on or before the date the gas well permit is issued
and shall remain in force and effect for at least a period of six months after
the expiration of the gas well permit term or until the well is plugged and
abandoned and the site is restored, whichever occurs last. The operator shall
be listed as principal and the instrument shall run to the town, as obligee,
and shall be conditioned that the operator will comply and perform in
accordance with the terms and regulations of this chapter and other applicable
town ordinances. The original bond shall be submitted to the Inspector with a
copy of the same provided to the Town Secretary.
   (B)   Principal amount. The principal amount of the bond or letter of credit
shall be $50,000 for any single well. If, after completion of a well, the
applicant/operator, who initially posted a $50,000 bond, has complied with all
of the provisions of this chapter and whose well is in the producing stage and
all drilling operations have ceased, such operator may submit a request to the
Inspector to reduce the existing bond to $10,000 for the remainder of the time
the well produces without reworking. During reworking operations, the amount of
the bond or letter of credit shall be maintained at $50,000. If at any time
after no less than a 15-day written notice to the operator and a public
hearing, the City Council shall deem any operator’s bond or letter of credit to
be insufficient, it may require the operator to increase the amount of the bond
or letter of credit up to a maximum of $250,000 per well.
   (C)   Default; notice. In addition to all remedies and the suspension or
revocation of a permit as set out in §
154.025 of this chapter, whenever the Inspector finds that a default has
occurred in the performance of any requirement or condition imposed by this
chapter, a written notice shall be given to the operator unless immediate
compliance is needed due to a serious health or safety condition. Such notice
shall specify the work to be done and the estimated period of time deemed by
the Inspector to be reasonably necessary for the completion of any work. After
receipt of such notice, the operator shall, within the time therein specified,
either cause or require the work to be performed, or failing to do so, shall
pay over to the town 125% of the estimated cost of doing the work as determined
by the Inspector once a failure to cure has occurred. In no event, however,
shall the cure period be less than ten days unless the failure presents a risk
of imminent destruction of property or injury to persons or unless the failure
involves the operator’s failure to provide periodic reports as required by this
chapter. The town shall be authorized to make claim against any bond to recover
such amount due from the operator. In the event that the well has not been
properly abandoned under the regulations of the Railroad Commission, such
additional money may be demanded from the operator as is necessary to properly
plug and abandon the well and restore the drill site in conformity with the
regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   Termination. When the well or wells covered by the bond have been
properly abandoned in conformity with all regulations of this chapter, and in
conformity with all regulations of the Railroad Commission and notice to that
effect has been received by the town, or upon receipt of a satisfactory
substitute, the irrevocable letter of credit or bond issued in compliance with
these regulations shall be terminated and cancelled.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.041  INSURANCE.
   (A)   In addition to the bond required pursuant to this chapter, the
operator shall carry a policy or policies of insurance issued by an insurance
company or companies authorized to do business in Texas. In the event such
insurance policy or policies are cancelled, the gas well permit shall be
suspended on such date of cancellation and the operator’s right to operate
under the gas well permit shall immediately cease until the operator files
additional insurance as provided herein.
   (B)   General requirements applicable to all policies.
      (1)   The town, its officials, employees, agents and officers shall be
endorsed as an additional insured on all applicable policies. A copy of the
endorsement is required for evidence of coverage.
      (2)   All policies shall be endorsed with a waiver of subrogation in
favor of the town. A copy of the endorsement is required for evidence of
coverage.
      (3)   All policies shall be written on an occurrence basis where
commercially available. It is provided, however, that all insurance obtained
for pollution and environmental damage shall be on a claims-made basis.
      (4)   If coverage is written on a claims-made basis, the operator must
maintain continuous coverage or purchase extended period coverage insurance for
four years following expiration or suspension of the gas well permit or four
years following the plugging of any well. The extended coverage period
insurance must provide that any retroactive date applicable to coverage under
the policy precedes the effective date of the issuance of the permit by the
town.
      (5)   All policies shall be written by an insurer with an A-: VII or
better rating by the most current version of the A. M. Best Key Rating Guide or
with such other financially sound insurance carriers acceptable to the town.
      (6)   Deductibles shall be listed on the certificate of insurance and
shall be on a per occurrence or per claim made basis unless otherwise
stipulated herein. It is provided, however, that the town may object to the
amount of the deductible and require a lower amount.
      (7)   Certificates of insurance shall be delivered to the Town of
Lakeside, Town Administrator, evidencing all the required coverages, including
endorsements, prior to the issuance of a gas well permit.
      (8)   Any failure on part of the town to request required insurance
documentation shall not constitute a waiver of the insurance requirement
specified herein.
      (9)   Each policy shall be endorsed to provide the town a minimum 30-day
notice of cancellation, non-renewal, and/or material change in policy terms or
coverage. A ten-day notice shall be acceptable in the event of nonpayment of
premium.
      (10)   During the term of the gas well permit, the operator shall report,
in a timely manner, to the Inspector any known loss occurrence which could give
rise to a liability claim or lawsuit or which could result in a property loss.
      (11)   Upon request, certified copies of all insurance policies shall be
furnished to the town.
      (12)   Irrespective of the requirements as to insurance to be carried,
the insolvency, bankruptcy or failure of any insurance company to pay claims
accruing shall not be held to waive any of the provisions of this section.
      (13)   Operator shall pay promptly all premiums for such insurance in
strict accordance with its obligations to its carrier and maintain the required
coverage in full effect so long as the permit is valid.
      (14)   Failure to keep such policies in full force and effect, in
accordance with the terms hereof, shall be unlawful.
      (15)   The insurance required herein may be met by a combination of
primary and excess insurance coverage. In addition, the operator may request
that some of the insurance coverage consist of self-insurance by the operator.
If the operator requests self-insurance, it shall submit an application to the
Town Administrator that details the amount and type of coverage it wants to be
covered by primary and excess insurance and the exact dollar amount and type of
coverage it wants to be self-insured. The Town Administrator shall place such
request on the agenda of the City Council. After consideration, the Council, in
its sole discretion, may accept, reject or modify the self insurance to be
allowed.
   (C)   Commercial general liability policy. This coverage must include
premises, operations, blowout or explosion, products, completed operations,
sudden and accidental pollution (with discovery and reporting periods of not
less than 15 days and 30 days respectively), blanket contractual liability,
underground resources damage, broad form property damage, independent
contractors protective liability and personal injury. This coverage shall be a
minimum of $1,000,000 per occurrence.
   (D)   Excess or umbrella liability. Insurance limits in a minimum of
$10,000,000. Coverage is to be at least as broad as, applies of and follows
form of the primary liability coverage required for commercial general
liability, auto liability and employer’s liability. Coverage must include an
endorsement for sudden or accidental pollution.
   (E)   Environmental pollution liability coverage.
      (1)   Operator shall purchase and maintain in force for the duration of
the gas well permit and for a period of four years after a well is plugged,
insurance for environmental pollution liability applicable to bodily injury,
property damage, including loss of use of damaged property or of property that
has not been physically injured or destroyed; cleanup costs; and defense,
including costs and expenses incurred in the investigation, defense or
settlement of claims; all in connection with any loss arising from the insured
site. Coverage shall be maintained in an amount of at least $5,000,000 per loss
with an annual aggregate of at least $10,000,000.
      (2)   Coverage shall apply to sudden and accidental pollution conditions
resulting from the escape or release of smoke, vapors, fumes, acids, alkalis,
toxic chemicals, liquids or gases, waste material or other irritants,
contaminants or pollutants and shall also explicitly include water pollution.
      (3)   The extended coverage period insurance must provide that any
retroactive date applicable to coverage under the policy precedes the effective
date of the issuance o the permit by the town.
   (F)   Control of well coverage. The policy should cover the cost of
controlling a well that is out of control, re-drilling or restoration of any
environmental, water or other similar conditions, expenses pertaining to same,
seepage and pollution damage as first party recovery for the operator and
related expenses, including, but not limited to, loss of equipment; fees of
experts, consultants and other technical persons; and evacuation of residents.
Minimum coverage shall be $5,000,000 per occurrence or per claim as is
appropriate. A $500,000 sub-limit endorsement may be added for damage to
property for which the operator has care, custody, and control.
   (G)   Workers compensation and employers liability insurance.
      (1)   Workers compensation benefits shall be Texas statutory limits.
      (2)   Employers’ liability shall be a minimum of $500,000 per accident.
      (3)   Such coverage shall include a waiver of subrogation in favor of the
town and provide coverage in accordance with applicable state and federal laws.
   (H)   Automobile liability insurance.
      (1)   Combined single limit of $1,000,000 combined single limit per
occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
      (2)   Coverage must include all owned, hired and not-owned automobiles.
      (3)   The town shall be named as an additional insured on the policy and
provided with a waiver of subrogation.
   (I)   Certificates of insurance.
      (1)   The company must be admitted or approved to do business in the
State of Texas, unless the coverage is written by a surplus lines insurer.
      (2)   The insurance set forth by the insurance company must be
underwritten on forms that have been approved by the Texas State Board of
Insurance or ISO, or an equivalent policy form acceptable to the town, with the
exception of environmental pollution liability and control of well coverage.
      (3)   Sets forth all endorsements and insurance coverage according to
requirements and instructions contained herein.
      (4)   Shall specifically set forth the notice of cancellation,
termination, or change in coverage provisions to the town. All policies shall
be endorsed to read:
“This policy will not be cancelled or non-renewed without 30 days’ advanced
written notice to the owner and the town except when this policy is being
cancelled for nonpayment of premium, in which case ten days’ advance written
notice is required.”
      (5)   Evidence of such endorsement shall be provided at the time the
certificate or evidence of insurance coverage and endorsements is provided to
the town.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.042  NOTICE.
   The individual designated to receive notice shall be a resident of Texas
upon whom all orders and notices provided in this chapter may be served in
person or by registered or certified mail. Every operator shall within ten days
notify the Inspector in writing of any change in such agent or mailing address
unless operations in the town are discontinued and abandonment is complete.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
ON SITE AND TECHNICAL REGULATIONS
§ 154.055  ON SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All gas well sites shall be equipped with a manual shut-off valve or
device in order for the town to terminate the well’s production in the event of
an emergency. The location of the valve shall be determined by the oil and gas
inspector.
   (B)   Blowout prevention. In all cases, blowout prevention equipment shall
be used on all wells being drilled, worked-over or in which tubing is being
changed. Protection shall be provided to prevent blowout during operations as
required by and in conformance with the requirements of the Railroad Commission
and the recommendations of the American Petroleum Institute. The operator must
equip all drilling wells with adequate blowout preventers, flow lines and
valves commensurate with the working pressures involved as required by the
Commission. The operator must conduct daily testing of the operation and
pressure providing a copy to the town weekly.
   (C)   Chemicals and materials storage. All chemicals and/or hazardous
materials shall be stored in such a manner as to prevent, contain, and
facilitate rapid remediation and cleanup of any accidental spill, leak, or
discharge of a hazardous material. Operator shall have all material safety data
sheets (MSDSs) for all hazardous materials on site. All applicable federal and
state regulatory requirements for the proper labeling of containers shall be
followed. Appropriate pollution prevention actions shall be required and
include, but are not limited to, chemical and materials raised from the ground
(e.g., wooden pallets), bulk storage, installation and maintenance of secondary
containment systems, and protection from storm water and weather elements.
   (D)   Closed loop system. A closed loop mud circulating system shall be the
only approved and permitted system used in the drilling process. This system is
self contained and has the ability to reuse certain products and is contained
within the confines of the drilling pad site.
   (E)   Discharge. No person shall place, deposit, discharge, or cause or
permit to be placed, deposited or discharged, any oil, naphtha, petroleum,
asphalt, tar, hydrocarbon substances or any refuse including wastewater or
brine from any gas operation or the contents of any container used in
connection with any gas operation in, into, or upon any public rights-of-way,
alleys, streets, lots, storm drain, ditch or sewer, sanitary drain or any body
of water or any private or public property in the town.
   (F)   Drill stem testing. All open hole formation or drill stem testing
shall be done during daylight hours. Drill stem tests may be conducted only if
the well effluent during the test is produced through an adequate gas separator
to storage tanks and the effluent remaining in the drill pipe at the time the
tool is closed is flushed to the surface by circulating drilling fluid down the
annulus and up the drill pipe.
   (G)   Drilling fluids. Low toxicity glycols, synthetic hydrocarbons,
polymers, and esters shall be substituted for conventional oil-based drilling
fluids.
   (H)   Drip pans and other containment devices. Drip pans and other
containment devices shall be placed or installed underneath all tanks,
containers, pumps, lubricating oil systems, engines, fuel and chemical storage
tanks, system valves, connections, and any other areas or structures that could
potentially leak, discharge or spill hazardous liquids, semi-liquids, or solid
waste materials.
   (I)   Dust, vibration, odors. All drilling and production operations shall
be conducted in such a manner as to minimize, so far as practicable, dust,
vibration, or noxious odors, and shall be in accordance with the best accepted
practices incident to drilling for the production of gas and other hydrocarbon
substances in urban areas. All equipment used shall be so constructed and
operated so that vibrations, dust, odor or other harmful or annoying substances
or effect will be minimized by the operations carried on at any drilling or
production site or from anything incident thereto, to the injury or annoyance
of persons living in the vicinity; nor shall the site or structures thereon be
permitted to become dilapidated, unsightly or unsafe. Proven technological
improvements in industry standards of drilling and production in this area
shall be adopted as they become available if capable of reducing factors of
dust, vibration and odor. Watering, wetting or other methods or materials must
be used to control dust adjacent to residential property.
   (J)   Electric lines. All electric lines to production facilities shall be
located in a manner compatible to those already installed in the surrounding
area or subdivision.
   (K)   Electric motors. Only electric prime movers or motors shall be
permitted for the purpose of pumping wells. No electric power shall be
generated on location. All electrical installations and equipment shall conform
to the town ordinances and the appropriate national codes.
   (L)   Emergency response plan. Prior to the commencement of any gas or other
hydrocarbons production activities, Operator shall submit to the Inspector an
emergency response plan establishing written procedures to minimize any hazard
resulting from drilling, completion or producing of gas wells. Said plan shall
use existing guidelines established by the Railroad Commission, Texas
Commission on Environmental Quality, Department of Transportation and/or the
Environmental Protection Agency and Town Fire Code. A copy of the emergency
response plan shall be kept on site and be kept current with any additions,
modifications, and/or amendments concerning all construction-related
activities, natural gas operations and, and/or natural gas production. Updated
plans shall be submitted to the Gas Inspector within two business days. A copy
of the emergency response plan shall be kept on site.
   (M)   Equipment painted. All production equipment shall be painted and
maintained at all times, including wellheads, pumping units, tanks, and
buildings or structures. When requiring painting of such facilities, the
Inspector shall consider the deterioration of the quality of the material of
which such facility or structure is constructed, the degree of rust, and its
appearance. Paint shall be of a neutral color, compatible with surrounding
uses. Neutral colors shall include sand, gray and unobtrusive shades of brown,
or other neutral colors approved by the Inspector.
   (N)   Explosives. Under no circumstances shall explosives of any type be
used during any phase of drilling, re-drilling, deepening, reentering,
activating, converting, fracturing, or completing a gas well without the prior
consent of the Gas Inspector. The operator shall provide notice to the Gas
Inspector at least ten days prior to such activities. The notice shall identify
the date that the explosive charges will be used, the date and means of
transporting the explosive charges, and the transportation route to and from
the drill and/or operation site that will be used for the delivery of the
explosive charges. A permit shall be issued from the Gas Inspector for all use
of explosives. Under no circumstance may explosives be stored at the pad site.
Explosives to be used in connection with an operation approved by the Inspector
shall be brought in on the day of their use and must either be used that day or
removed.
   (O)   Fire notice. In the event of a fire or discovery of a fire, smoke, or
unauthorized release of flammable or hazardous materials on any property, the
operator shall immediately report such condition to the Fire Department.
   (P)   Fire prevention; sources of ignition. Firefighting apparatus and
supplies as approved by the Fire Department or Inspector and required by any
applicable federal, state, or local law shall be provided by the operator, at
the operator’s cost, and shall be maintained on the drill site at all times
during drilling and production operations. The operator shall be responsible
for the maintenance and upkeep of such equipment. Each well shall be equipped
with an automated valve that closes the well in the event of an abnormal change
in operating pressure. All well heads shall contain an emergency shut off valve
to the well production sale line.
   (Q)   Fracture stimulation earthen pit. Lined earthen pits may be used for
the purpose of storing fresh water for fracture stimulation operations. Such
pits and contents shall be removed from the premises and the drilling site
within 60 days after completion of the well. The operator shall provide
temporary fencing around pits. If an operator who maintains a tank or pit does
not take protective measures necessary to prevent harm to birds, the operator
may incur liability under federal and state wildlife protection laws. Federal
statutes, such as the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, provide substantial penalties
for the death of certain species of birds due to contact with oil in a tank or
pit. These penalties may include imprisonment. State statutes also protect
certain species of birds. An operator must screen, net, cover, or otherwise
render harmless to birds all open-top storage tanks that are eight feet or
greater in diameter and contain a continuous or frequent surface film or
accumulation of oil. However, temporary, portable storage tanks that are used
to hold fluids during drilling operations, workovers, or well tests are exempt.
   (R)   Fracture stimulation (fracing) operations. All formation fracture
stimulation operations shall be conducted during daytime hours unless the
operator has notified and obtained permission from the town for operations
during nighttime hours. At no time shall the well be allowed to flow or vent
directly to the atmosphere without first directing the flow through separation
equipment or into a portable tank. A watchperson shall be required at all times
during such operation.
   (S)   Gas emission or burning restricted. No person shall allow, cause or
permit gases to be vented into the atmosphere or to be burned by open flame
except as provided by law or as permitted by the Railroad Commission. If the
venting of gases into the atmosphere or the burning of gases by open flame is
authorized as provided by law or as permitted by the Railroad Commission, then
such vent or open flame shall not be located closer than 300 feet from any
building not used in operations on the drill site and such vent or open flame
shall be screened in such a way as to minimize detrimental effects to adjacent
property owners.
   (T)   (1)   Lift compressors. Lift compressors are restricted to gas
drilling pad sites and must be at least 700 feet from the nearest protected
use, unless a lesser distance is authorized by the city council (subsection 13-
510(f)(10)), and shall have secondary containment as required by subsection 13-
515(a)(33). Additional requirements for lift compressors are as follows:
         (a)   A lift compressor shall be considered temporary if the
installation is for less than 90 days and shall be allowed five dBA over
ambient during the day and three dBA over ambient at night. No compressor shall
be considered temporary if installed after the removal of the initial
compressor for that well. Sound blankets shall be required for noise abatement
on temporary lift compressors.
         (b)   Permanent lift compressors shall be enclosed within an
acoustical structure composed of permanent material constructed of metal,
masonry or other structurally sound material as approved by the environmental
services director that significantly screens the equipment, is painted in a
noncontrasting soft earth-tone color to match the nearby surroundings as nearly
as possible and meets applicable building and fire codes. The structure shall
be architecturally compatible with surrounds building structures and the
structure’s facade shall be approved by the City Administrator.
         (c)   Any exhaust from an internal combustion engine or compressor,
stationary or mounted on wheels, must be controlled through the utilization of
a “hospital” grade muffler or equivalent control device. This device must be
sufficient to suppress noise and vibration and prevent the escape of noxious
gases, fumes, or ignited carbon or soot.
         (d)   The operation of permanent lift compression equipment shall not
create any noise that exceeds the noise levels allowed and set out in this
chapter.
      (2)   Line compressors. This division shall apply to line compressors
restricted to gas drilling pad sites. Line compressors on gas drilling pad
sites must be at least 700 feet from the nearest protected use, unless a lesser
distance is authorized by the city council (subsection 13-510(f)(10)), and
shall have secondary containment as required by subsection 13-515(a)(33).
Additional requirements for line compressors are as follows:
         (a)   Line compressors shall be enclosed within an acoustical
structure composed of permanent material constructed of metal, masonry or other
structurally sound material as approved by the environmental services director
that significantly screens the equipment, is painted in a noncontrasting soft
earth-tone color to match the nearby surroundings as nearly as possible and
meets applicable building and fire codes. The structure shall be
architecturally compatible with surrounds building structures and the
structure’s facade shall be approved by the Town Administrator.
         (b)   Any exhaust from an internal combustion engine or compressor,
stationary or mounted on wheels, must be controlled through the utilization of
a “hospital” grade muffler or equivalent control device. This device must be
sufficient to suppress noise and vibration and prevent the escape of noxious
gases, fumes, or ignited carbon or soot.
         (c)   The operation of line compression equipment shall not create any
noise that exceeds the permissible noise levels set out in this chapter.
   (U)   Gas processing onsite. Except for a conventional gas separator or line
heater, no refinery, processing, treating, dehydrating or absorption plant of
any kind shall be constructed, established or maintained on the premises unless
approved as part of the gas well permit.
   (V)   Grass, weeds, trash. The property on which a well site is located
shall at all times be kept free of debris, pools of water or other liquids,
contaminated soil, weeds, brush, trash or other waste material within a radius
of 100 feet around any separators, tanks and producing wells.
   (W)   Hazardous plan. A hazardous materials management plan shall be on file
with the Fire Department and the Inspector.
   (X)   Lights. No person shall permit any lights located on any drill or
operation site to be directed in such a manner so that they shine directly on
public roads, adjacent property or property in the general vicinity of the
operation site. To the extent practicable, and taking into account safety
considerations, site lighting shall be directed downward and internally so as
to avoid glare on public roads and adjacent dwellings and buildings within 300
feet.
   (Y)   Muffling exhaust. Exhaust from any internal combustion engine,
stationary or mounted on wheels, used in connection with the drilling of any
well or for use on any production equipment shall not be discharged into the
open air unless it is equipped with an exhaust muffler, or mufflers or an
exhaust muffler box constructed of noncombustible materials sufficient to
suppress noise and prevent the escape of noxious gases, fumes or ignited carbon
or soot. All formation fracturing operations shall be conducted between 7:00
a.m. and 7:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
   (Z)   Noise restrictions for gas well permits.
      (1)   No well shall be drilled, re-drilled or any equipment operated so
as to create any noise which causes the exterior noise level, when measured at
the well setback required by this chapter, to exceed the ambient noise level by
more than five decibels during daytime hours and more than three decibels
during nighttime hours. Fracture stimulation (fracing) operations shall not
exceed the ambient noise level by more than seven decibels. Backflow operations
shall not exceed the ambient noise level by more than five decibels during
daylight hours and by no more than three decibels during nighttime hours.
Production operations shall not exceed the established pre-drilling ambient
noise level.
      (2)   (a)   An operator shall not drill or re-drill a well or operate any
equipment in such a manner so as to create pure tones where one-third octave
band sound pressure level in the band with the tone exceeds the arithmetic
average of the sound pressure levels of two contiguous one-third octave bands
by five dB for center frequencies of 500 hertz and above, and by eight db for
center frequencies between 160 and 400 hertz, and by 15 dB for center
frequencies less than or equal to 125 hertz.
         (b)   An operator shall not drill or re-drill a well or operate any
equipment in such a manner so as to create low-frequency outdoor noise levels
that exceed the following decibel levels:
            16 hertz octave band 65 dB
            32 hertz octave band 65 dB
            64 hertz octave band 65 dB
      (3)   Exterior noise levels, including pure tone and low frequency data,
shall be continuously monitored to ensure compliance. This data shall also
include an audio recording to help identify the source of sound level “spikes”
throughout the logging period. The continuous noise monitoring equipment shall
be capable of wireless transmission of real-time noise and audio data. Access
to this real-time data shall be made available to the town and its inspector.
The cost of such monitoring shall be borne by the operator. The noise readings
shall also be submitted to the Inspector on a weekly basis in an electronic
format or other format specified by the inspector. The weekly report shall
contain all noise data including pure tone and low frequency readings. The
report shall state whether the pad site is in compliance with the noise
requirements. If the report states that the pad site is not in compliance with
the noise standards, then the report shall state the measures that are being
taken to return the pad site to compliance and the timeframes for implementing
these remedial measures.
      (4)   At a minimum, the operator shall install noise reduction blankets
on the pad site boundaries facing any protected uses within 1,000 feet. The
height of boundary blankets shall at a minimum be 30 feet. The height may be
increased at the discretion of the Inspector in response to topographic
necessity. In addition to the boundary barriers, the operator must, at a
minimum, install additional noise reduction blankets to mitigate noise
generated from the rig substructure, the rig floor area, brake drum housings,
mud pumps, diesel motors, and generators. The blankets shall be constructed of
fire-retardant material approved by the fire department. The boundary noise
reduction blankets for class 1 well sites shall be required to meet a standard
of STC or greater. Blankets that meet an equivalent national standard will be
considered on a case by case basis by the Inspector.
      (5)   The sound level meter used in conducting noise evaluations shall
meet the American National Standards Institute’s standard for sound meters.
      (6)   During nighttime operations, the operation of vehicle audible back-
up alarms shall be prohibited or replaced with approved nonauditory signaling
systems, such as spotters or flagmen. Deliveries of pipe, casing and heavy
loads shall be limited to daytime hours, except for emergency situations. The
derrick man and driller shall communicate by walkie-talkie or other
nondisruptive means only when the derrick man is in the derrick. Horns may not
be used to signal for connection or to summon crew (except that a horn may be
used for emergency purposes only). The operator shall conduct onsite meetings
to inform all personnel of nighttime operations noise control requirements.
      (7)   Time frame for boundary noise reduction blankets.
         (a)   If at any time, drilling, well completion, or fracturing
operations cease for a period of greater than 90 days, the applicant shall be
required to immediately remove any noise walls and any supporting structures.
The Inspector may grant a one-time, 30-day extension per well. Additionally,
the Inspector may waive this requirement for pad sites that have sufficient
natural/vegetative/topographical screening that prevents the view of the
boundary noise reduction blankets from town streets or from protected uses.
         (b)   To facilitate enforcement of this provision, all applicants with
pad sites that have boundary noise reduction blankets shall be required to
provide written notice by letter or email. This notice, required within 48
hours of the termination of drilling, well completion, or fracturing
operations, shall be directed to the Town Administrator or his or her designee.
   (AA)   Organic solvents. Organic solvents, such as trichloroethylene and
carbon tetrachloride, shall not be used for cleaning any element, structure, or
component of the drilling rig, platform, and/or associated equipment, tools or
pipes. The maximum extent practicable, high flash point Varsol shall be used.
   (BB)   Pipe dope. Lead-free, biodegradable pipe dope shall be substituted
for API specified pipe dope.
   (CC)   Pits. No open pit shall be used except for freshwater storage. One
foot of freeboard shall be required between the surface elevation and the top
of the berm.
   (DD)   Private roads and drill sites. Prior to the commencement of any
drilling operations, all private roads used for access to the drill site and
the operation site itself shall be at least 20 feet wide, have an overhead
clearance of 14 feet. All private roads on drill sites during the drilling and
fracturing stages of a drill site shall be an all-weather hard surface and
maintained to prevent dust, mud and rutting. In particular cases these
requirements governing surfacing of private roads may be altered at the
discretion of the Inspector and the Town Administrator after consideration of
all circumstances including, but not limited to, the following: distances from
public streets and highways; distances from adjoining and nearby property
owners whose surface rights are not leased by the operation; the purpose for
which the property of such owners is or may be used; topographical features;
nature of the soil; and exposure to wind. Watering, wetting or other methods or
materials must be used to control dust adjacent to residential property.
   (EE)   Public streets. No permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled
within any of the streets or alleys of the town and/or projected streets or
alleys of the town, and no street or alley shall be blocked or encumbered or
closed due to any exploration, drilling or production operations unless prior
consent is obtained from the Town Administrator. Any consent from the Town
Administrator shall be temporary in nature and state the number of hours and/or
days that any street or alley may be blocked, encumbered or closed.
   (FF)   Salt water wells. No salt water disposal wells shall be located
within the town.
   (GG)   Signs.
      (1)   A sign shall be immediately and prominently displayed at the gate
on the fencing erected pursuant to §
154.056 of this chapter. Such sign shall be durable material, maintained in
good condition and, unless otherwise required by the Railroad Commission, shall
have a surface area of not less than two square feet or more than four square
feet and shall be lettered with the following:
         (a)   Well name and number;
         (b)   Name of operator;
         (c)   The emergency 911 number; and
         (d)   Telephone numbers of two persons responsible for the well who
may be contacted in case of emergency.
      (2)   Permanent weatherproof signs reading: “DANGER NO SMOKING OR OPEN
FLAME ALLOWED, PELIGRO NO FUMAR O INICIAR LLAMA EN ESTA AREA” shall be posted
immediately upon completion of the well site fencing at the entrance of each
well site and tank battery or in any other location approved or designated by
the Town Administrator or their designee. Sign lettering shall be four inches
in height and shall be red on a white background or white on a red background.
A label must be located on each tank indicating exact chemicals that may be
contained in the tank. Text shall be minimum six inches in height, contrasting
with the background color. Each sign shall include the emergency notification
numbers of the Town Hall, Fire Department and the operator, well and lease
designations required by the Railroad Commission.
      (3)   No other signs shall be permitted on the site except as required by
the Railroad Commission.
   (HH)   Storage of equipment. On-site storage or equipment is prohibited on
the drilling or production operation site. Lumber, pipes, tubing and casing
shall not be left on the operation site except when drilling or well servicing
operations are being conducted on the site. No vehicle or item of machinery
shall be parked or stored on any street, right-of-way or in any driveway, alley
or upon any operation site which constitutes a fire hazard or an obstruction to
or interference with fighting or controlling fires except that equipment which
is necessary for drilling or production operations on the site. The Fire
Department shall be the entity that determines whether equipment on the site
shall constitute a fire hazard. No refinery, processing, treating, dehydrating
or absorption plant of any kind shall be constructed, established or maintained
on the premises. This shall not be deemed to exclude a conventional gas
separator or dehydrator.
   (II)   Storage tanks. All tanks and permanent structures shall conform to
the American Petroleum Institute (A.P.I.). All storage tanks shall be equipped
with a secondary containment system including lining with an impervious
material. The secondary containment system shall be a minimum of three feet in
height and one and one-half times the contents of the largest tank in
accordance with the Fire Code, and buried at least one foot below the surface.
Drip pots shall be provided at the pump out connection to contain the liquids
from the storage tank. All tanks shall be set back pursuant to the standards of
the Railroad Commission and the National Fire Protection Association, but in
all cases, shall be at least 25 feet from any public right-of-way or property
line. Each storage tank shall be equipped with a level control device that will
automatically activate a valve to close the well in the event of excess liquid
accumulation in the tank. No meters, storage tanks, separation facilities, or
other aboveground facilities, other than the well head and flow lines, shall be
placed in a floodway or the 100-yearfloodplain.
   (JJ)   Surface casing. Surface casing shall be run and set in full
compliance with the applicable rules and regulations of the Railroad
Commission.
   (KK)   Tank battery facilities. Tank battery facilities shall be equipped
with a lightning arrestor system.
   (LL)   Tank specifications for gas well permits. All tanks and permanent
structures shall conform to the API specifications. The top of the tanks shall
be no higher than 12 feet above the terrain surrounding the tanks.
   (MM)   Valves. Each well must have a shutoff valve to terminate the well’s
production. The Fire Department shall have access to the well site to enable it
to close the shut-off the valve in an emergency.
   (NN)   Vehicle routes for gas well permits. Vehicles associated with
drilling and/or production in excess of three tons shall be restricted to state
arterials, and where local access is required, to those arterials, collectors
or commercial routes as designated by the town as part of the well permit.
   (OO)   Waste disposal.
      (1)   Unless otherwise directed by the Railroad Commission, all tanks
used for storage shall conform to the following: operator must use portable
closed steel storage tanks for storing liquid hydrocarbons. Tanks must meet the
American Petroleum Institute (A.P.I.) standards. All tanks must have a vent
line, flame arrester and pressure relief valve. All tanks must be enclosed by a
fence applicable to the issued permit classification. No tank battery shall be
within 100 feet of any dwelling or other combustible structure.
      (2)   Drilling mud, cuttings, liquid hydrocarbons and all other field
waste derived or resulting from or connected with the drilling, re-working or
deepening of any well shall be discharged into above-ground tanks (closed-loop
mud system). All disposals must be in accordance with the rules of the Railroad
Commission and any other appropriate local, state or federal agency. Unless
otherwise directed by the Railroad Commission, waste materials shall be removed
from the site and transported to an off-site disposal facility not less often
than every 30 days. Water stored in on-site tanks shall be removed as
necessary. All waste shall be disposed of in such a manner as to comply with
the air and water pollution control regulations of the State, this chapter and
any other applicable ordinance of the town.
   (PP)   Watchperson. The operator must keep a watchperson or security
personnel on site during the drilling or re-working of a well when other
workmen are not on the premises.
   (QQ)   Wellhead status after fracing. All wellheads waiting on completion,
for a period greater than ten days, shall be:
      (1)   Completed through the production casing flange with a metal plate
or blind flange bolted across the head;
      (2)   Surrounded with a six-foot tall chain link fence halving a gate and
lock;
      (3)   The cellar shall be filled or closed; and
      (4)   The Bradenhead shall be piped to the surface and open to the
atmosphere or have an observable and adequate pressure gauge with operable test
valve.
   (RR)   Work hours for gas well operations. No activity other than drilling
shall be conducted between 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. Sunday through Saturday.
Truck deliveries of equipment and materials associated with drilling and/or
production, well servicing, site preparation and other related work conducted
on the well site shall be limited to between the above same work hour
restrictions except in cases of fires, blowouts, explosions, and any other
emergencies or where the delivery of equipment is necessary to prevent the
cessation of drilling or production. It is understood, however that preparation
for fracturing operations including assembly, perforating, disassembly and
cleanup are allowed other than designated hours with approval from the Gas
Inspector.
   (SS)   Notifications.
      (1)   Completion. The operator’s agent shall notify Inspector in writing
at least 72 hours prior to starting completion procedures such as perforating
and fracing. The well must be equipped with a blowout preventer before this
operation is commenced. Also, if a bridge plug is set over a producing
formation prior to additional completion, it must be pressure tested to a
sufficient pressure to ensure that it is not leaking.
      (2)   Pipeline hookup. The operator’s agent shall notify the Inspector in
writing at least 72 hours prior to the first sale.
   (TT)   Cathodic protection. Within 180 days of its completion date, each gas
well shall be quipped with a cathodic protection system to protect the
production casing from external corrosion. The Inspector may approve an
alternative method of protecting the production casing from external corrosion
in writing.
   (UU)   Blowouts. In the event of the loss of control of any well, operator
shall immediately take all reasonable steps to regain control regardless of any
other provision of this chapter and shall notify the Inspector as soon as
practicable. The Inspector shall certify in writing, briefly describing the
same, to the official designated by the town. If the Inspector, in his or her
opinion, believes that danger to persons and property exists because of such
loss of well control and that the operator is not taking or is unable to take
all reasonable and necessary steps to regain control of such well, the
Inspector may then employ any well control expert or experts or other
contractors or suppliers of special services, or may incur any other expenses
for labor and material which the Inspector deems necessary to regain control of
such well. The town shall then have a valid lien against the interest in the
well of all working interest owners to secure payment of any expenditure made
by the town pursuant to such action of the Inspector in gaining control of the
well.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.056  FENCES, WALLS, SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Throughout the entire exploration, drilling, and production process
there shall be screening improvements (fences, walls, berms and landscaping)
required during each phase of the process.
   (B)   Exploration through completion (drilling phase). Once the pad site has
been prepared a temporary chain link fence with wooden slats at least six feet
in height shall be established around the entire operation site to obscure view
of the gas drilling activities. The temporary fence shall remain standing and
in a serviceable condition throughout this phase. A secured entrance gate shall
be required. All gates are to be kept locked when the operator or his or her
employees are not within the enclosure. A Knox Padlock or Knox Box with a key
shall be provided to access the well site to be used only in case of an
emergency.
   (C)   Completion through abandonment. Within 90 days of completion of
initial drilling of any well on a drilling site a masonry wall with landscaping
shall be required to enclose and visually screen the well and all associated
equipment. Partial screening of the drilling site shall not be allowed without
approval from the City Council. An earthen berm may also be required. The
masonry walls, berms, and landscaping shall be in compliance with standard
engineering and design practices and shall meet the following minimum
requirements:
      (1)   The masonry wall material and design shall be generally compatible
with the design of similar facilities, buildings and structures on and/or
adjacent to the site;
      (2)   Masonry walls shall be at least eight feet in height;
      (3)   Masonry walls shall be placed upon earthen berms in order to
prevent viewing of the well and associated equipment from a public street,
playground, competition athletic field or picnic area within a public park,
existing residences and residentially zoned undeveloped property contiguous to
the well site where practicable as determined by the City Council. However, the
above mentioned berms shall not be required unless needed to augment the height
of an eight-foot masonry wall in order to prevent the viewing of the well or
any associated equipment from the above items;
      (4)   All landscape improvements shall be maintain in an attractive and
healthy state by the applicant and/or operator as to ensure the effective
visual screening of the site throughout its use for gas production and
associated activities; and
      (5)   Screening shrubs and trees shall be evergreen species and shall be
installed in conjunction with the required masonry walls and or berms in order
to supplement both the visual screening and noise mitigation of the well site
and associated equipment. Screening shrubs shall be a minimum of five feet in
height at planting, having the potential to grow to a mature height of at least
eight feet , be planted on four-foot centers and must have an irrigation system
that provides total water coverage to all plant materials. Screening trees
shall be planted on 20-foot centers. Trees must be a minimum of three-inch
caliber at time of planting and be irrigated as above.
   (D)   Gate specifications. All temporary fences and masonry walls shall be
equipped with at least one gate. The gate shall meet the following
specifications:
      (1)   Each gate shall be not less than 12 feet wide and be composed of
two gates, each of which is not less than six feet wide, or one sliding gate
not less than 12 feet wide. If two gates are used, gates shall latch and lock
in the center of the span;
      (2)   The gates shall be of chain link construction, with all-weather
screening fabric, that meets the applicable specifications, or of other
approved material that, for safety reasons, shall be at least as secure as a
chain link fence;
      (3)   The gates shall be provided with a combination catch and locking
attachment device for a padlock, and shall be kept locked except when being
used for access to the site;
      (4)   Operator must provide the Police Department and the Fire Department
with a Knox Padlock or Knox Box entry system or equivalent on the gate to
access the well site in case of an emergency; and
      (5)   At each gate there needs to be a sign that reads: “NO TRESPASSING”.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.057  PLUGGED AND ABANDONED WELLS.
   (A)   Abandoned wells. All wells shall be abandoned in accordance with the
rules of the Railroad Commission; however, all well casings shall be cut and
removed to a depth of at least ten feet below the surface unless the surface
owner submits a written agreement otherwise. Three feet shall be the minimum
depth. No buildings shall be built over an abandoned well.
   (B)   Surface requirements for plugged and abandoned well. Whenever
abandonment occurs pursuant to the requirements of the Railroad Commission, the
operator so abandoning shall be responsible for the restoration of the well
site to its original condition as nearly as practicable, in conformity with the
regulations of this chapter.
   (C)   Inspector’s discretion. Abandonment shall be approved by the Inspector
after restoration of the drill site has been accomplished in conformity with
the following requirements at the discretion of the Inspector:
      (1)   The derrick and all appurtenant equipment thereto shall be removed
from drill site;
      (2)   All tanks, towers, and other surface installations shall be removed
from the drill site;
      (3)   All concrete foundations, piping, wood, guy anchors and other
foreign materials regardless of depth, except surface casing, shall be removed
from the site, unless otherwise directed by the Railroad Commission;
      (4)   All holes and depressions shall be filled with clean, compactable
soil;
      (5)   All waste, refuse or waste material shall be removed from the drill
site; and
      (6)   During abandonment, operator shall comply with all applicable
sections in this chapter.
   (D)   Abandoned well requirement. The operator shall furnish the following
at the discretion of the Inspector:
      (1)   A copy of the W-3A notice of intention to plug and abandon and W-
3 plugging record forms on the same date these forms are submitted to the
Commission;
      (2)   A prior 48 hour notice of intention to plug and abandon under the
provisions of this section and stating the date such work will be commenced.
Abandonment may then be commenced on or subsequent to the date so stated; and
      (3)   All wells shall be plugged and abandoned in accordance with the
rules of the Railroad Commission; however, all well casings and cellars shall
be cut and removed to a depth of at least three feet below the surface. A
permanent abandonment marker pipe, with the well identity and location
permanently inscribed, shall be welded to the casing and shall be at least four
inches in diameter with a length of four feet visible above the ground level.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
GAS PIPELINE INSTALLATION
§ 154.070  PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY USE AGREEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   A public right-of-way use agreement shall be required prior to any gas
pipeline construction within the town. The public right-of-way agreement shall
include, but is not limited to the following information:
   (A)   The pipeline company/applicant name, phone number, fax number,
physical address, and, if possible, e-mail address. If the pipeline company is
a corporation, the state of incorporation, and if the pipeline company is a
partnership, joint venture, limited partnership , the names and addresses of
the general or managing partners shall be provided;
   (B)   Detailed mapping of the proposed pipeline route, and the location and
extent of proposed use within public right-of-way;
   (C)   A traffic safety and management plan; and
   (D)   Bonds in the amount of the cost of work or $50,000, whichever amount
is greater. Such bonds shall guarantee:
      (1)   The faithful performance and completion of all construction,
maintenance, removal or repair work in accordance with the contract between
company and the contractor;
      (2)   Full payment for all wages for labor and services and of all bills
for materials, supplies and equipment used in the performance of that contract;
      (3)   That pipeline company shall restore the rights-of-way affected by
such cut, opening or other excavation in a satisfactory and workmanlike manner;
and
      (4)   Maintain such restoration work in a state of repair satisfactory to
the town for a period of two years following the date the town approves the
restoration; and fully comply with the town’s ordinances governing excavation
in the public rights-of-way. If the pipeline company meets its obligations
under this section, the town shall return the bond to the pipeline company upon
expiration of the two-year period. The bonds shall name both the town and
pipeline company as dual obliges.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.071  FEES AND PAYMENTS TO THE TOWN.
   The following fees shall be due to the town prior to any pipeline
construction.
   (A)   Application fee. Pipeline company shall pay the town an application
fee in the amount of $1,500. This fee shall be collected at the time pipeline
company applies for a permit to construct gas pipelines within the town and
submits gas pipeline construction plans.
   (B)   Right-of-way uses fee. Pipeline company shall pay a right-of-way uses
fee. This fee shall be collected on or prior to the effective date of the
agreement, and annually thereafter. Pipeline company shall pay the town as
compensation for its use of the public rights-of-ways for the term of the
agreement the sum of $1.75 per linear foot based on the linear foot of gas
pipeline proposed to be constructed within the town’s right-of-way (license
fee). This license fee shall be adjusted annually based on the Dallas-Fort
Worth Consumer Price Index.
   (C)   Construction plan review fee. Pipeline company shall pay a
construction plan review fee. This fee in the amount equivalent to 2.23% of the
actual construction costs of the gas pipeline proposed to be constructed with
the town’s public right-of-way shall be collected on or prior to constructing
any gas pipelines with the town for gas pipeline construction plan review. This
fee percentage shall be approved annually by the City Council and indicated as
the construction plan review fee within the town’s fee table.
   (D)   Inspection fee. Pipeline company shall pay an inspection fee. This fee
in the amount equivalent to 3.34% of the actual construction costs of the gas
pipeline proposed to be constructed with the town’s public right-of-way shall
be collected on or prior to constructing any gas pipelines with the town for
inspection of gas pipeline construction. This fee percentage shall be approved
annually by the City Council and indicated as the inspection fee within the
town’s fee table.
   (E)   Other payments and interest. In addition to the license fee, pipeline
company shall pay the town all sums which may be due the town for property
taxes, license fees, permit fees, or other taxes, charges or fees that the town
may from time to time impose on all other similarly situated entities within
the town.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.072  REGULATORY AUTHORITY OF THE TOWN.
   A pipeline company’s property and operations hereunder shall be subject to
such regulation by the town as may be reasonably necessary for the protection
or benefit of the general public. In this connection, pipeline company shall be
subject to, governed by and shall comply with all applicable federal, state and
local laws, including all ordinances, rules and regulations of the town ,as
same may be adopted and amended from time to time.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.073  USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The town has the right to control and regulate the use of the public
rights-of-way, public places and other town-owned property and the spaces above
and beneath them. Pipeline company shall comply with all applicable laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations, including, but not limited to, town
ordinances, rules and policies related to construction permits, construction
bonds, permissible hours of construction, operations during peak traffic hours,
barricading requirements and any other construction rules or regulations that
may be promulgated form time to time.
   (B)   Pipelines shall not be erected, installed, constructed, repaired,
replaced or maintained in any manner that places an undue burden on the present
or future use of the public rights-of-way by the town and the public. If the
town reasonably determines that the pipeline does place an undue burden on any
portion of the public rights-of-way, pipeline company, at pipeline company’s
sole cost and expense and within a reasonable time period specified by the
town, shall modify the pipeline or take other actions reasonably determined by
the town to be in the public interest to remove or alleviate such undue burden.
   (C)   Prior to the undertaking of any kind of construction, installation,
maintenance, removal, repairs or other work that requires the excavation, lane
closure or other physical use of the public rights-of-way, pipeline company
shall, except for work required to address an emergency, provide at least 48
hours’ advance written notice to the owners of property adjacent to the public
rights-of-way that will be affected. In the case of emergencies pipeline
company shall provide notice to the affected landowners with 24 hours after
commencement of work.
   (D)   During any such work, pipeline company shall provide construction and
maintenance signs and sufficient barricades at work sites to protect the
public. The use of such traffic control devices shall be consistent with the
standards and provision of Part VI of the Texas Manual on Uniform Traffic
Control Devices. Pipeline company shall utilize appropriate warning lights at
all construction and maintenance sites where one or more traffic lanes are
closed or obstructed during nighttime conditions. Pipeline company shall plan
and execute construction of the pipeline so that no flood conditions are
created or worsened on the surrounding land. To minimize erosion, the excavated
portion of the right-of-way adjacent to the improved portion of the road shall
be restored and revegetated in accordance with the appropriate grass seed mix.
   (E)   Pipeline company shall bury or have buried its pipeline facilities at
least four feet deep except underneath public roads. Underneath public roads,
pipeline company’s pipeline facilities shall be at least seven feet below the
lowest point in such road pavement. When pipeline facilities cannot be bored,
during backfill of the pipeline excavation, “buried pipeline” warning tape
shall be buried one foot above the pipeline to warn future excavators of the
presence of the pipeline.
   (F)   Isolation valves. The number and location of isolation valves on the
pipeline shall be approved by the town and clearly indicated on the
construction plans.
   (G)   Marking of pipeline. The pipeline shall be marked, in a manner that is
reasonably acceptable to the Gas Inspector, to show conspicuously pipeline
company’s name, a toll-free telephone number of pipeline company that a person
may call for assistance and the appropriate Texas One Call System telephone
number.
   (H)   Pavement cut coordination and additional fees. The town shall have the
right to coordinate all excavation work in the public rights-of-way in a manner
that is consistent with and convenient for the implementation of the town’s
program for street construction, rebuilding, resurfacing and repair. To
preserve the integrity of the public rights-of-way, pipeline company shall not
cut, excavate or otherwise breach or damage the surface of any paved public
right-of-way within 96 months following the construction or resurfacing of such
public rights-of-way unless pipeline company obtains written consent from the
Town Administrator, which consent shall not be unreasonably withhold, pays an
additional fee reasonably agreed to by and between the parties, and restores
the public rights-of-way in accordance with this section.
   (I)   Restoration of public rights-of-way and property. Pipeline company, at
pipeline company’s sole cost and expense, and in a manner approved by the town,
shall promptly restore any portion of the public rights-of-way, town-owned
property or other privately-owned property that are in any way disturbed or
damaged by the construction, operation, maintenance or removal of any of the
pipeline to, at pipeline company’s option, as good or better a condition as
such property was in immediately prior to the disturbance or damage. Pipeline
company shall complete the restoration of property from any disturbance or
damage within 60 calendar days following the date that pipeline company first
became aware of the disturbance or damage. Any private service/utility lines
that are in any way disturbed or damaged by the pipeline company’s
construction, operation, maintenance or removal of any of the pipeline, shall
be repaired at the pipeline company’s sole cost and expense within 24 hours.
   (J)   Relocation of pipeline. Within 120 calendar days following a written
request by the town, pipeline company, at pipeline company’s sole cost and
shall protect support, disconnect, alter or remove from the public rights-of-
way all or any portion of its pipeline due to street or other public
excavation, construction, repair, grading, regarding or traffic conditions; the
installation of sewers, drains, water pipes or municipally-owned facilities of
any kind; the vacation, construction or relocation of streets or any other type
of structure or improvement of a public agency; any public work; or any other
type of improvement necessary, in the town’s sole discretion, for the public
health, safety or welfare. If pipeline company reasonably requires more than
120 days to comply with the town’s written requirements, it shall notify the
Town Manger in writing and the town will work in good faith with pipeline
company to negotiate a workable time frame. Any relocation will require that
the town, at pipeline company’s expense, approve pipeline company’s plans. It
is the desire of both parties to determine such relocation with the existing
public rights-of-way.
   (K)   Emergencies.
      (1)   Work by the town. A PUBLIC EMERGENCY shall be any condition which,
in the reasonable opinion of the officials specified herein, poses an immediate
threat to life, health or property and is caused by any natural or man-made
disaster, including, but not limited to, storms, floods, fires, accidents,
explosion, water main breaks and hazardous materials spills. In the event of a
public emergency, the town shall have the right to take whatever action is
deemed reasonably appropriate by the Town Administrator, or their authorized
representatives, including, but not limited to, action that may result in
damage to the pipeline, and company hereby:
         (a)   Releases the town, its officers, agents, servants, employees and
subcontractors from liability or responsibility for any damages that may occur
to the pipeline or that pipeline company may otherwise incur as a result of
such necessary response; and
         (b)   Agrees that pipeline company, at pipeline company’s sole cost
and expense, shall be responsible for the repair, relocation or reconstruction
of all or any of its pipeline that is affected by such action of the town. In
responding to a public emergency, the town agrees to comply with all local,
state and federal laws, including, without limitation, any requirements to
notify the Texas One Call System, to the extent that they apply at the time and
under the circumstances. In addition, if the town takes any action that it
believes will affect the pipeline, the town will notify the pipeline company as
soon as practicable so that the pipeline company may advise and work with the
town with respect to such action.
      (2)   Work by or on behalf of pipeline company. In the event of an
emergency that directly involves any portion of the pipeline and necessitates
immediate emergency response work on or repairs, pipeline company may initiate
the emergency response work or repairs or take any action required under the
circumstances provided that pipeline company notifies the town as promptly as
possible. After the emergency has passed, pipeline company shall apply for and
obtain a construction permit from the town and otherwise fully comply with the
requirements of the applicable right-of-way use agreement.
   (L)   Removal of pipeline.
      (1)   Pipeline company obligated to remove. Upon the revocation,
termination or expiration without extension or renewal of an agreement,
company’s right to use the public rights-of-way under this agreement shall
cease and pipeline company shall immediately discontinue the transportation of
gas in or through the town. Within 180 days following such revocation,
termination or expiration and if the town requests, pipeline company, at
pipeline company’s sole cost and expense, shall remove the pipeline from the
public rights-of-way (or cap and abandonment of the pipeline, if consented to
by the town), in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
      (2)   Town’s right to remove. If pipeline company has not removed all of
the pipeline from the public rights-of-way (or capped the pipeline, if
consented to by the town) within six months following revocation, termination
or expiration of an agreement, the town may deem any portion of the pipeline
remaining in the public rights-of-way abandoned and, at the town’s sole option:
         (a)   Take possession of and title to such property; or
         (b)   Take any and all legal action necessary to compel pipeline
company to remove such property; provided, however, the pipeline company may
not abandon its facilities or discontinue its services within the town without
the approval of the Commission or successor agency or any other regulatory
authority with such jurisdiction.
      (3)   Restoration of property within six months following revocation,
termination or expiration of an agreement. Pipeline company shall also restore
any property, public or private, that is disturbed or damaged by removal (or,
if consented to by the town, capping) of the pipeline. If pipeline company has
not restored all such property within this time, the town, at the town’s sole
option, may perform or have performed any necessary restoration work, in which
case pipeline company shall immediately reimburse the town for any and all
reasonable costs incurred in performing or having performed such restoration
work.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.074  AS-BUILT PLANS AND MAPS.
   Pipeline company, at company’s sole cost and expense, shall provide the town
with as-built plans of all portions of the pipeline located in the town and the
town’s extraterritorial jurisdiction and maps showing such pipeline within 180
calendar days following the completion of such pipeline.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.075  LIABILITY AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Liability of pipeline company. Pipeline company shall be liable and
responsible for any and all damages, losses, liabilities (joint or several),
payments, obligations, penalties, claims, litigation, demands, defenses,
judgments, lawsuits, proceedings, costs, disbursements or expenses (including,
without limitation, fees, disbursements and reasonable expenses of attorneys,
accountants and other professional advisors and of expert witnesses and costs
of investigation and preparation) of any kind or nature whatsoever
(collectively “damages”), which may arise out of or be in any way connected
with:
      (1)   The construction, installation, operations, maintenance or
condition of the pipeline or any related facilities or appurtenances;
      (2)   The transportation of gas through the pipeline;
      (3)   Any claim or lien arising out of work, labor, materials or supplies
provided or supplied to pipeline company, its contractors or subcontractors
with respect to the pipeline; or
      (4)   Pipeline company’s failure to comply with any applicable federal,
state or local law, ordinance, rule or regulation, except to the extent
directly caused by the gross negligence or intentional misconduct of the town.
   (B)   Indemnification. Pipeline company, at pipeline company’s sole cost and
expense, shall indemnify and hold harmless the town, its officers, boards,
commission, agents, employees and volunteers (indemnitees), from and against
any and all damages which may arise out of or be in any way connected with:
      (1)   Pipeline company’s construction, installation, operation,
maintenance, or condition of the pipeline or any related facilities or
appurtenances;
      (2)   The transportation of gas through the pipeline;
      (3)   Any claim or lien arising out of work, labor, materials or supplies
provided or supplied to pipeline company, its contractors or subcontractors;
      (4)   Pipeline company’s failure to comply with any applicable federal,
state or local law, ordinance, rule or regulation, acts; or
      (5)   The negligent act or omission(s) of the town, its officers and
employees.
   (C)   Assumption of risk. Pipeline company hereby undertakes and assumes,
for and on behalf of pipeline company, its officers, agents, contractors,
subcontractors, agents and employees, all risk of dangerous conditions, if any,
on or about any town-owned or town-controlled property, including, but not
limited to, the public rights-of-way.
   (D)   Defense of indemnitees. If an action is brought against any indemnitee
by reason of any matter for which the indemnitees are indemnified hereunder,
the town shall give pipeline company prompt written notice of the making of any
claim or commencement of any such action, lawsuit or other proceeding, and
pipeline company, at pipeline company’s sole cost and expense, shall resist and
defend the same with reasonable participation by the town and with legal
counsel selected by pipeline company and specifically approved by the town, at
town’s own expense. In such an event, pipeline company shall not admit
liability in any matter on behalf of any indemnitee without the advance written
consent of the town.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
§ 154.076  INSURANCE.
   Pipeline company shall procure and maintain at all times, in full force and
effect, a policy or policies of insurance to provide coverages as specified
herein, naming the town as an additional insured and covering all public risks
related to the use, occupancy, condition, maintenance, existence or location of
the public rights-of-way and the construction, installation, operation,
maintenance or condition of the pipeline, including the transportation of gas
through the pipeline, as follows.
   (A)   Primary liability insurance coverage.
      (1)   Commercial general liability. Five million dollars per occurrence,
including coverage for the following:
         (a)   Premises liability;
         (b)   Independent contractors;
         (c)   Products/completed operations;
         (d)   Personal injury;
         (e)   Contractual liability; and
         (f)   Explosion, collapse and underground property damage.
      (2)   Property damage liability. One million dollars per occurrence.
      (3)   Automobile liability. One million dollars per accident, including,
but not limited to, all owned, leased, hired or non-owned motor vehicles used
in conjunction with the rights granted under an agreement.
      (4)   Workers’ compensation. As required by law; and employer’s liability
of $1,000,000 per accident.
   (B)   Requirements and revisions to required coverage. The town may, not
more than once every five years during the term of an agreement, revise
insurance coverage requirements and limits required by the agreement. Pipeline
company agrees that within 90 days of receipt of written notice from the town,
pipeline company will implement all such revisions reasonably requested by the
town. The policy or policies of insurance shall be endorsed to provide that no
material changes in coverage, including, but not limited to, cancellation,
termination, non-renewal or amendment, shall be made without 30 days’ prior
written notice to the town. The policies and certificate of insurance provided
to the town shall contain the following language:
      “Cancellation Clause
Should any of the above described policies be cancelled before the expiration
date therefore, the issuing insurer will provide 30 days’ written notice to the
named certificate holder.”
   (C)   Underwriters and certificates. Pipeline company shall procure and
maintain its insurance with underwriters authorized to do business in the State
of Texas and who are reasonably acceptable to the town in terms of solvency and
financial strength. Within 30 days following adoption of an agreement by the
City Council, pipeline company shall furnish the town with certificates of
insurance signed by the respective companies as proof that it has obtained the
types and amounts of insurance coverage required herein. No construction shall
commence until such certificates are received. In addition, pipeline company
shall, on demand, provide the town with evidence that it has maintained such
coverage in full force and effect.
   (D)   Deductibles. Deductible or self-insured retention limits on any line
of coverage required herein shall not exceed $50,000 in the annual aggregate
unless the limit per occurrence or per line of coverage, or aggregate is
otherwise approved by the town.
   (E)   No limitation of liability. The insurance requirements set forth in
this section and any recovery by the town of any sum by reason of any insurance
policy required under an agreement shall in no way be construed or affected to
limit or in any way affect pipeline company’s liability to the town or other
persons as provided by the agreement or law.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.077  PROVISION OF INFORMATION.
   (A)   Filings with the Commission. Pipeline company shall, upon request,
provide copies to the town of all documents which pipeline company files with
or sends to the Commission concerning or related to its transportation of gas
through or other operations in the town, including, but not limited to, filings
related to:
      (1)   Rules, regulations and policies requested, under consideration or
approved by the Commission; and
      (2)   Applications and any supporting pre-filed testimony and exhibits
filed by pipeline company or third parties on behalf of pipeline company, on
the same date as such filings are made with the Commission. In addition,
pipeline company shall provide the town with copies of records, documents and
other filings that pipeline company is required to maintain or supply to the
Commission under any applicable state or federal law, rule or regulation.
   (B)   Lawsuits. Pipeline company shall provide the town with copies of all
pleadings in al lawsuits to which the company is a party and that pertain to
the granting of an agreement and/or the transportation of gas through the town
within 30 days of pipeline company’s receipt of same.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)  Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and an offense for any person to do the
following:
      (1)   Engage in any activity not permitted by the terms of a gas well
permit issued under this chapter;
      (2)   Fail to comply with any condition set forth in a gas well permit
issued under this chapter; or
      (3)   Violate any provision or requirement set forth under this chapter.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee thereof who violates
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined an amount not to exceed $2,000 for each
offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. It is provided, however, that this section shall not be
interpreted nor is it intended as a limit on civil penalties and fines that may
be assessed under other laws and regulations.
   (C)   All ordinances and provisions of ordinances of the Town of Lakeside,
Texas, that are in conflict with this chapter shall be, and are hereby
repealed, and all ordinances and provisions of ordinances not so repealed are
hereby retained in full force and effect.
   (D)   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter
is for any reason held to be unconstitutional, such holding shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
   (E)   All of the regulations provided in this chapter are hereby declared to
be governmental and for the health, safety and welfare of the general public.
Any member of the City Council or any town official or employee charged with
the enforcement of this chapter, acting for the town in the discharge of his or
her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself personally liable; and
he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that
might accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or
permitted in the discharge of his or her duties.
   (F)   Any violation of this chapter can be enjoined by a suit filed in the
name of the Town of Lakeside in a court of competent jurisdiction, and this
remedy shall be in addition to any penal provision in this section or in the
Town of Lakeside Code of Ordinances.
   (G)   The caption and penalty of this chapter shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the Town of Lakeside, Texas, in compliance
with the provisions of Article VII, Section 15, of the Town Charter. Further,
this chapter may be published in pamphlet form and shall be admissible in such
form in any court, as provided by law.
(Ord. 326, passed 7-14-2011)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   STREET VACATIONS
      
IV.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
      
V.   ANNEXATIONS
TABLE I:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Properties rezoned from C-1 Commercial to C-1(a), C-1(b),
242      7-11-2002   and C-1(c); new commercial district colors designated for
                     Official Zoning Map
                    
 
TABLE II:  FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
141      3-5-1992    Agreement with Southwestern Bell Telephone Company
                     regarding telecommunications business
156      6-10-1993   Amends existing electric franchise with Texas Utilities
                     Electric Company
184      2-13-1997   Ord. 141 continued in effect
198      1-7-1999    Cable television franchise granted to North Texas
                     Cablevision, Ltd.
202      2-11-1999   Approving optional rate schedules for Texas Utilities
                     Electric Company
216      2-10-2000   Approving revised rate schedules for TXU Electric Company
                     Maximum general service rate for sales of natural gas to
226      12-14-2000  residential and commercial consumers by TXU Gas
                     Distribution fixed and determined
245      9-12-2002   Amends existing electric franchise with Oncor Electric
                     Delivery Company
246      9-12-2002   Amends existing gas franchise with TXU Gas Company
332      2-28-2012   Solid waste collection, removal and disposal franchise
                     granted to IESI TX Corporation
                     Awarding an exclusive contract with the town and Waste
397      4-13-2017   Connections Inc., for the collection, removal and disposal
                     of solid waste
                    
 
TABLE III:  STREET VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
53       7-10-1972   Abandons Bay Street
53(a)    4-10-1973   Abandons Bay Street
78       4-11-1977   Abandons Vanshire Road
81       9-12-1977   Abandons a drainage easement between Lots 12 and 13, Block
                     3, of the Van Zandt Addition
                    
 
TABLE IV:  CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date     Description
No.  Passed
47   10-23-   Authorizes Mayor to sign a partition and quit-claim deed;
     1971     Tarrant County Water Supply Corporation
351  5-9-2013 Approving and adopting rate schedule “RRM” for Atmos Energy
              Corporation
              Approving a negotiated settlement agreement with Atmos Energy
379  5-14-    Corporation, Mid-Tex Division, and adopting rate tariffs that
     2015     reflect rate adjustments consistent with the negotiated
              settlement
              Approving a negotiated settlement between the Atmos Cities
389  5-12-    Steering Committee and Atmos Energy Corporation, Mid-Tex
     2016     Division, and adopting rate tariffs that reflect rate
              adjustments consistent with the negotiated settlement
              Approving a negotiated settlement between the Atmos Cities
398  6-8-2017 Steering Committee and Atmos Energy Corporation, Mid-Tex
              Division, adopting rate tariffs that reflect rate adjustments
              consistent with the negotiated settlement
              Approving a tariff authorizing an annual rate review mechanism
402  3-8-2018 as a substitution for the annual interim rate adjustment
              process
              Approving a negotiated settlement between the Atmos Cities
410  8-29-    Steering Committee and Atmos Energy Corporation Mid-Tex
     2019     division, adopting tariffs that reflect rate adjustments
              consistent with the negotiated settlement
             
 
TABLE V:  ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Extends boundary limits; portions of the J. Wilcox Survey
41       8-9-1971    No. 33, Abstract No. 1716, the J. Wilcox Survey No. 34,
                     Abstract No. 1717, and the Robert Arse Survey, Abstract
                     No. 5
42       8-9-1971    Discontinues territory from within the corporate limits
380      6-4-2015    Annexing Rankin Street, a 1.864-acre tract located in the
                     J. Wilcox Survey, Abstract No. 1716
381      6-4-2015    Annexing Silver Creek Road, a 0.978-acre tract located in
                     the Robert Arse Survey, Abstract No. 5
382      7-9-2015    Annexing Confederate Park Road (FM 1886), a 3.517-acre
                     trace located in the J. Wilcox Survey, Abstract No. 1701
                     Annexing a 119.262-acre tract of land found for the
383      8-17-2015   Northeast corner of a 4.504 acre tract of land conveyed to
                     Rick Ruehl
392      10-19-2016  Annexing a 5.7-acre tract of land situated in the Jacob
                     Wilcox Survey, Abstract No. 1716
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
Tex. Administrative Code 2008 Code
Tex. Administrative Code                         2008 Code
Title 16, Ch. 76                                 150.01
Title 25, Ch. 229, §§ 161-171, 173-175         111.01,
                                                 111.02
Title 25, C. 229, §171(h)                       111.06
Title 30, Part 1, Ch. 288,  Subch. A, Rule 288.250.002
288.2(a)(1)(A)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(1)(B)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(1)(C)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(1)(D)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(1)(E)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(1)(F)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(1)(G)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(1)(H)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(1)(J)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(1)(K)                                   50.004
288.2(a)(2)(A)                                   50.005
288.2(a)(2)(B)                                   50.005
288.3(a)(3)(A)                                   50.006
288.3(a)(3)(B)                                   50.006
288.3(a)(3)(D)                                   50.006
288.3(a)(3)(F)                                   50.006
Title 30, Part 1, Ch. 288  Subch. B, Rule 288.2050.003,
                                                 50.007
288.20(a)(1)(A)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(1)(B)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(1)(C)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(1)(D)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(1)(E)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(1)(F)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(1)(G)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(1)(H)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(1)(I)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(1)(J)                                  50.007
288.20(a)(3)                                     50.007
288.20(b)                                        50.007
288.20(c)                                        50.007
Title 31, Ch. 330, Subch. L                      54.03
Title 31, Ch. 307                                54.01
Title 1, Part 30, Ch. 344                        50.006
                                                 
 
 
Tex. Agriculture Code 2008 Code
Ch. 63                54.03
Ch. 75                54.03
Ch. 76                54.03
76.001                54.01
 
 
Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code 2008 Code
Title 3, Ch. 32              151.042
 
 
Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure 2008 Code
Art. 18.05                      31.117
Art. 102.011                    32.04
 
 
Tex. Election Code 2008 Code
Art. 4.008         30.088
 
 
Tex. Family Code 2008 Code
Ch. 31           130.22
52.028           130.23
 
Tex. Gov’t Cod2008 Code
Tex. Gov’t Code 2008 Code
Ch. 30         31.005
30.00009          31.005
30.00014          90.216
54.016            54.11
54.017            54.11
418.001 et seq.   30.066
Ch. 551           33.09
615.001 et seq.   31.003
Ch. 791           30.025,
                  30.027
852.105           33.07
853.305           33.04
853.401 - 853.404 33.05,
                  33.10
853.401(d)        33.05,
                  33.10
853.402(c)        33.05,
                  33.10
853.402(d)        33.05,
                  33.10
853.404(d)        33.05,
                  33.06
853.404(e)        33.06
853.601           33.05,
                  33.10
854.102(e)        33.07
854.202           33.07
854.202(c)        33.07
854.202(g)        33.09
                  
 
Tex. Health and Safety Code 2008 Code
Tex. Health and Safety Code 2008 Code
371.024                     54.03
773.003(1)                  30.027
773.003(2)                  30.027
773.003(14)                 30.030
773.046                     30.027
773.047                     30.027
773.048                     30.027
773.049                     30.027
773.0495                    30.027
773.051                     30.025
Ch. 821                     90.250
821.022                     90.150
821.079                     90.150
Ch. 822                     90.250
Ch. 826                     90.028
826.002                     90.070
                            
 
 
Tex. Human Resources Code 2008 Code
42.052                    151.013
 
Tex. Loc. Gov’t Cod2008 Code
Tex. Loc. Gov’t Cod2008 Code
Title 2              30.089
Ch. 51               115.02
Ch. 53               10.01
Ch. 54               115.02
54.011 - 54.017      54.11
54.017               54.11
211.008              151.035
211.008 - 211.013    151.035
                     153.001,
Ch. 212              153.008,
                     153.021
212.0065             Ch. 153, App. A, 1.2.3
212.013              Ch. 153, App. A, 2.7.1
212.014              Ch. 153, App. A, 2.5.1
212.015              Ch. 153, App. A, 2.5.1
212.016              153.053,
                     Ch. 153, App. A, 2.6.1
Ch. 213              153.008
Ch. 214              150.50,
                     150.56
Ch. 215              115.02
Ch. 217              115.02
Ch. 243              115.02
243.0075             115.08
Ch. 402              31.021
201.001 et seq.      30.004,
                     30.007
                     
 
 
Tex. Occupation Code 2008 Code
215.001              130.03
Ch. 1702             90.221
                     
 
 
Tex. Penal Code 2008 Code
Tex. Penal Code 2008 Code
12.23           30.999
Ch. 21          115.21
21.01           115.25
Ch. 22          115.21,
                115.28
Ch. 25          115.21,
                115.28
38.15           90.250
42.01           130.02
42.09           90.150
42.019          90.150
42.092          90.150
Ch. 43          115.21,
                115.28
Ch. 46          130.01
                
 
 
Tex. Tax Code 2008 Code
33.07         32.01
33.08         32.01
33.11         32.01
 
Tex. Transportation Code 2008 Code
Tex. Transportation Code 2008 Code
Ch. 501                  70.13
504.201                  70.04
504.202                  70.04
541.201                  70.02
545.353                  Ch. 71, Sch. I
Ch. 546                  30.032
Ch. 622                  150.60
Ch. 681                  70.04
681.009(b)               70.04
681.011                  70.04
683.071 et seq.          92.01
                         
 
 
Tex. Water Code 2008 Code
26.121          54.11
26.123(a)       54.11
26.124          54.11
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed 2008 Code
Ord. No. Date Passed 2008 Code
15       2-3-1960    130.05,
                     130.99
22       5-2-1961    150.06,
                     150.99
23       9-5-1961    30.089
33       2-27-1968   110.06,
                     110.99
                     91.20 –
38       9-8-1969    91.44,
                     91.99
41       8-9-1971    TSO, Table V
42       8-9-1971    TSO, Table V
47       10-23-1971  TSO, Table IV
53       7-10-1972   TSO, Table III
                     31.095 –
57       9-11-1972   31.100,
                     31.102
                     52.01 –
62       11-13-1972  52.05,
                     52.99
                     51.01 –
63       11-13-1972  51.13,
                     51.99
68       3-12-1973   31.070 –
                     31.079
53(a)    4-10-1973   TSO, Table III
72       2-10-1975   110.05,
                     110.99
75       6-9-1975    31.005
77       10-13-1975  31.004
54-A     3-14-1977   30.088
78       4-11-1977   TSO, Table III
68-A     7-11-1977   31.070
80       8-8-1977    30.087
81       9-12-1977   TSO, Table III
82       7-10-1978   114.01 –
                     114.16
85       12-11-1978  32.06
                     150.60 –
91       4-8-1980    150.72,
                     150.99
98       5-3-1983    150.35 –
                     150.46
104      3-6-1984    150.05,
                     150.99
107      8-7-1984    130.04,
                     130.99
112      9-4-1986    30.086
113      7-2-1987    32.05
38-C     8-6-1987    91.34
                     30.065 –
115      8-13-1987   30.073,
                     30.999
116      4-14-1988   110.04,
                     110.99
                     31.096 –
57-A     12-1-1988   31.100,
                     31.102
                     92.01 –
119      12-1-1988   92.07,
                     92.99
                     93.01 –
120      1-5-1989    93.14,
                     93.99
122      5-11-1989   31.003
                     113.01 –
                     113.03,
                     113.15 –
123      1-4-1990    113.21,
                     113.35 –
                     113.37,
                     113.99
                     51.01,
127      12-6-1990   51.02,
                     51.06
                     91.20,
                     91.31,
129      2-7-1991    91.34,
                     91.39 –
                     91.43,
                     91.99
130      3-7-1991    32.04
133      7-11-1991   31.020 –
                     31.029
139      1-7-1992    30.085
140      3-5-1992    TSO, Table II
144      7-2-1992    31.002
150      10-8-1992   50.025
156      6-10-1993   TSO, Table II
161      10-13-1993  130.03,
                     130.99
164      12-9-1993   130.02,
                     130.99
172      11-10-1994  93.02,
                     93.08
174      9-14-1995   151.050 -
                     151.058
178      11-9-1995   150.04,
                     150.99
182      10-10-1996  93.08
184      2-13-1997   TSO, Table II
188      8-7-1997    32.03
                     130.20 –
194      6-11-1998   130.23,
                     130.99
199      11-12-1998  150.03,
                     150.99
198      1-7-1999    TSO, Table II
202      2-11-1999   TSO, Table II
205      5-13-1999   51.02
212      1-13-2000   150.20,
                     150.99
215      1-13-2000   110.03,
                     110.99
216      2-10-2000   TSO, Table II
222      10-12-2000  32.01
223      11-9-2000   130.01
226      12-14-2000  TSO, Table II
240      1-10-2001   150.22
230      7-12-2001   91.34
239      1-10-2002   150.21
241      2-14-2002   110.02,
                     110.99
242      7-11-2002   151.076,
                     TSO, Table I
245      9-12-2002   TSO, Table II
246      9-12-2002   TSO, Table II
                     30.045 –
250      6-12-2003   30.052,
                     30.999
                     112.01 –
251      6-12-2003   112.08,
                     112.99
                     30.025 –
258      8-14-2003   30.032,
                     30.999
259      11-13-2003  31.003
260      1-8-2004    110.01,
                     110.99
                     130.20 –
267      4-14-2005   130.23,
                     130.99
268      6-9-2005    150.02
272      12-15-2005  150.01,
                     150.99
273      2-9-2006    150.01,
                     150.99
274      4-13-2006   32.01
279      5-10-2007   30.001 –
                     30.011
                     91.01 –
282      10-11-2007  91.05,
                     91.99
286      3-13-2008   130.20,
                     130.99
287      4-10-2008   151.052
293      11-13-2008  30.100 –
                     30.106
294      5-14-2009   Ch. 71 Sch. I
295      5-14-2009   Ch. 71 Sch. I
297      5-14-2009   151.019
299      6-11-2009   32.02
                     152.01 -
                     152.11,
                     152.20 -
302      9-10-2009   152.23,
                     152.30 -
                     152.32,
                     152.99
                     115.01 -
                     115.14,
310      3-11-2010   115.20 -
                     115.30,
                     115.99
312      6-22-2010   151.001 -
                     151.042
                     150.80 -
313      6-22-2010   150.83,
                     150.99
                     150.90 -
314      6-22-2010   150.96,
                     150.99
318      11-10-2010  31.115 -
                     31.119
                     151.012,
319      12-9-2010   151.013,
                     151.042
                     130.20 -
321      3-10-2011   130.23,
                     130.99
323      4-14-2011   151.012
325      7-14-2011   Ch. 71 Sch. III
                     154.001 -
                     154.006,
                     154.020 -
                     154.030,
                     154.040 -
326      7-14-2011   154.042,
                     154.055 -
                     154.057,
                     154.070 -
                     154.077,
                     154.999
                     111.01 -
327      8-11-2011   111.11,
                     111.99
332      2-28-2012   T.S.O. II
                     50.080 -
333      3-8-2012    50.085,
                     50.999
335      5-23-2012   151.015,
                     151.016
                     94.01,
337      7-12-2012   94.98,
                     94.99
338      7-12-2012   151.024.01
339      2-13-2014   151.025
340      7-12-2012   151.014
341      7-12-2012   151.012,
                     151.042
                     50.040 -
                     50.053,
                     50.065 -
                     50.069,
                     50.999,
                     53.001 -
                     53.024,
                     53.035 -
345      3-21-2013   53.046,
                     53.060 -
                     53.073,
                     53.085 -
                     53.090,
                     53.100,
                     53.110 -
                     53.113,
                     53.999
347      3-21-2013   31.130 -
                     31.134
348      3-21-2013   33.01 -
                     33.10
351      5-9-2013    T.S.O. IV
                     50.001 -
352      6-13-2013   50.007,
                     50.999
                     153.001 -
                     153.009,
                     153.020,
                     153.021,
                     153.030 -
                     153.037,
                     153.050 -
                     153.055,
                     153.070 -
                     153.075,
                     153.090,
                     153.091,
                     153.100 -
353      7-10-2013   153.115,
                     153.125,
                     153.126,
                     153.135 -
                     153.138,
                     153.145 -
                     153.153,
                     153.160 -
                     153.168,
                     153.180 -
                     153.182,
                     153.190,
                     153.999,
                     Ch. 153, App. A
355      9-12-2013   93.02
359      2-13-2014   151.025.01
362      10-24-2013  33.05
                     54.01  -
365      12-12-2013  54.13 ,
                     54.99
                     130.20 -
367      2-13-2014   130.23,
                     130.99
369      3-13-2014   94.01,
                     94.99
371      5-8-2014    50.100 -
                     50.102
372      5-8-2014    50.004
377      10-9-2014   150.01,
                     150.99
                     70.01 -
                     70.13,
346      2-16-2015   70.20 -
                     70.26,
                     70.99
379      5-14-2015   T.S.O. IV
380      6-4-2015    T.S.O. V
381      6-4-2015    T.S.O. V
382      7-9-2015    T.S.O. V
383      8-17-2015   T.S.O. V
                     151.051 -
385      8-17-2014   151.054,
                     151.056,
                     151.057
389      5-12-2016   T.S.O. IV
392      10-19-2016  T.S.O. V
                     30.025 -
394      1-12-2017   30.033,
                     30.999
                     130.20 -
395      4-13-2017   130.23,
                     130.99
397      4-13-2017   T.S.O. II
398      6-8-2017    T.S.O. IV
401      2-14-2018   31.003
402      3-8-2018    T.S.O. IV
405      6-14-2018   31.005
                     90.001,
                     90.025 -
                     90.028,
                     90.040,
                     90.055,
                     90.056,
                     90.070 -
                     90.076,
                     90.090,
                     90.105,
                     90.106,
                     90.120,
408      2-14-2019   90.135 -
                     90.139,
                     90.150,
                     90.165 -
                     90.167,
                     90.180,
                     90.195 -
                     90.199,
                     90.210 -
                     90.221,
                     90.235,
                     90.236,
                     90.250
409      5-9-2019    151.035
410      8-29-2019   TSO IV
413      9-12-2019   33.05
418      5-13-2021   150.50 -
                     150.57
                    
 
