LINDSAY, TEXAS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 1023-1, passed 10-10-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
LINDSAY, TEXAS
CITY COUNCIL
POSITION       NAME         TERM
Mayor          Scott Neu    (2020)
Mayor Pro Tem  Sam Sparkman (2019)
Member         Glenn Block  (2020)
Member         Klay Gilbert (2020)
Member         Jeff Neu     (2019)
Member         Robert Sharp (2019)
CITY ADMINISTRATION
City Attorney               Bradley Anderle
City Secretary              Monica Laux
Fire Chief                  Marcus Dennis
Police Chief                Jimmy Yarbrough
All mail should be sent to the Council member
c/o City Hall, P.O, Box 153, Lindsay, Texas
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 0119-1
CITY OF LINDSAY
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF LINDSAY, TEXAS,
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the political
subdivision are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in
form and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the acts of the legislature of State of Texas empower and authorize
the political subdivision to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the legislative authority of the political subdivision has authorized
a general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the
political subdivision of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE POLITICAL
SUBDIVISION OF: CITY OF LINDSAY
Section 1.   The general ordinances of the political subdivision as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Lindsay, Texas".
Section 2.   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
LINDSAY, TEXAS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Chapter
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   10.   General Provisions
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   30.   General Provisions
   31.   Police Department
   32.   Procurement Procedures
   33.   Taxation
   34.   Finances
   35.   City Policies, Plans and Programs
   36.   City employees
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   50.   Utility Service
   51.   Water
   52.   Sewer
   53.   Drought
   54.   Schedule of Fees for Water and Sewer
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   70.   General Provisions
   71.   Parking Regulations
   72.   Recreational Vehicles
   73.   Traffic Schedules
   74.   Parking Schedules
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   90.   Animals
   91.   Nuisances
   92.   Fire Prevention
   93.   Parks and Recreation
   94.   Streets and Sidewalks
   95.   Portable on Demand Storage Units
   96.   Fair Housing
   97.   Oil and Gas Wells
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   110.   Alcohol
   111.   Solicitors, Peddlers and Hawkers
   112.   Sexually Oriented Businesses
   113.   Sno Cone Stands
   114.   Tattoo and Body Piercing Studios
   115.   Amusements
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   130.   General Provisions
   131.   Curfew for Minors
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   150.   Building
   151.   Manufactured, Mobile and Modular Homes
   152.   Flood damage Prevention
   153.   Wind Energy Conversion Systems
   154.   Subdivisions
   155.   Airport Zoning
   156.   Zoning
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   I.   Annexations
   II.   Budgets
   III.   Tax Rate Changes
   IV.   Time Warrants
   V.   Bonds
   VI.   Tax and Revenue Certificates
   VII.   Streets and Alleys
   VIII.   Franchises
   IX.   Contracts and Agreements
Section 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole in part
in such code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of the
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the code.
Section 4.   Such code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the legislative authority and the Clerk of the political
subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such code of
ordinances in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 5.   Such code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
Section 6.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of the municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
This ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its passage and
publication as required by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED ON THIS 14th day of January 2019.
                        By:   ________________
                           Scott Neu, Mayor
ATTEST:
_______________________
Monica Laux, City Secretary
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Altering or tampering with code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Lindsay, Texas, shall
be designated as the Code of Lindsay and may be so cited.
Statutory reference:
   Authority of municipality to codify ordinances, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code,
Chapter 53
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by
the following rules, unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the
intent of the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or," if the sense requires it.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires and act to
be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (B)   Except as provided above, or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Lindsay, Texas.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or
sections.
      COUNTY. Cooke County, Texas.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Texas.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in a section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered, unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of that act or the giving of that notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   (A)   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other
ordinances pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in
full force and effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary
implication, including, but not limited to, the following types of ordinances:
      (1)   Any ordinance guaranteeing or promising the payment of money for
the municipality or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the municipality
or any evidence of the municipality’s indebtedness;
      (2)   Any appropriation ordinance or ordinance providing for an annual
budget or prescribing salaries for municipal officers and employees;
      (3)   Any ordinance annexing territory to the municipality or
discontinuing territory as a part of the municipality;
      (4)   Any ordinance designating or otherwise relating to municipal
depositories;
      (5)   Any ordinance granting any franchise, permit or other right;
      (6)   Any ordinance approving, prescribing or otherwise relating to rates
to be charged by private utility companies;
      (7)   Any ordinance approving, authorizing or otherwise relating to any
contract or agreement;
      (8)   Any ordinance accepting, dedicating, vacating or otherwise relating
to any easement; and
      (9)   Any ordinance establishing or amending the zoning designation of
land.
   (B)   All such ordinances mentioned in division (A) above are hereby
recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set
out at length herein.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-1980; Ord. 20,
passed 1-1-1985)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
      Statutory reference:
         Inspection of public records, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, §§ 552.001 et
seq.
§ 10.18 ALTERING OR TAMPERING WITH CODE.
   It shall be an offense for any unauthorized person to change or amend, by
addition or deletion, any part or portion of this code, or to insert or delete
pages or portions thereof, or to alter or to tamper with this code in any
manner whatsoever which will cause a law of the city to be misrepresented
thereby.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code or in any ordinance of the city an act is
prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a
misdemeanor, or whenever in the code or ordinance the doing of any act is
required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no
specific penalty is provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of
this code or any such ordinance shall be punished by:
      (1)   A fine not to exceed $2,000 in all cases arising under municipal
ordinances that govern fire safety, zoning and public health and sanitation;
      (2)   A fine not to exceed $4,000 for violation of laws or city
ordinances regulating dumping of refuse; or
      (3)   A fine not to exceed $500 in all other cases; provided, however,
that no penalty shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same
or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
   (B)   Each day any violation of this code or of any ordinance shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense. In the event that any such violation is
designated as a nuisance under the provisions of this code, the nuisance may be
summarily abated in accordance with state and local law.
Statutory reference:
   Municipal penalties, see Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 54.001
   Nuisance abatement, see Tex. Loc. Govt’ Code, § 217.002
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
32.   PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
      
33.   TAXATION
      
34.   FINANCES
      
35.   CITY POLICIES, PLANS AND PROGRAMS
      
36.   CITY EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Changing fiscal year
   
30.02   Imposition of lien for delinquent utility services and on property the
city must mow or clean for health and safety reasons
   
30.03   Notice
Type A General Law Municipality
   
30.15   Type A general law municipality
Mayor
   
30.30   Authorizing the expenditures by the Mayor for the purchase of supplies,
equipment or services
   
30.31   Duties and powers of the Mayor
City Council
   
30.45   Agenda
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 CHANGING FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the city shall be October 1 through September 30
beginning October 1, 2006.
(Ord. 0906-1, passed 9-11-2006)
§ 30.02 IMPOSITION OF LIEN FOR DELINQUENT UTILITY SERVICES AND ON PROPERTY THE
CITY MUST MOW OR CLEAN FOR HEALTH AND SAFETY REASONS.
   (A)   Utility service lien authorized. After the city has terminated a
customer’s utility service, whether water, sewer, garbage or any other utility
provided by the city, regardless of whether that service was terminated for
non-payment or at the request of the customer, the City Secretary or Mayor is
hereby authorized to file a lien on the property where the utilities served,
with the lien to be in the amount that the customer whose service was
terminated owed to the city for utility service at the time of the termination
of services.
   (B)   Mowing or clean up liens authorized.
      (1)   If after notice to the property owner to comply with a municipal
ordinance the city is required to do any work on a property to remove stagnant
water or other unsanitary conditions, filth, carrion or other unwholesome
matter or to remove weeds or other unsanitary matter, the City Secretary or
Mayor is hereby authorized to assess a lien in the amount of the expenses
incurred by the city in the work done on the property.
      (2)   The lien is authorized by this division (B) under the authority of
Health and Safety Code of the state shall accrue interest at the rate of 10%
per year on the amount due until paid.
      (3)   If the lien imposed under this division (B) is not paid in a timely
manner, the Mayor is authorized to bring a suit for foreclosure in the name of
the city to recover the expenditure and interest due to the city.
   (C)   Procedures for liens. The liens authorized by this section shall be
perfected by recording in the official public records of the county a notice of
lien containing a legal description of the property, the account number for the
delinquent charges, any statement of expenses incurred by the city, the owner
of the property, if known, and any penalties, interest and collection costs.
(Ord. 10-02-02, passed 10-7-2002)
§ 30.03 NOTICE.
   (A)   The city shall not be liable on account of any claim for specific
performance, breach of contract or damages to the person or to any property, or
for any character of tort, unless the person, firm or corporation making such
claim shall, within 60 days after the time at which it is claimed such cause of
action arose or the time such damages were inflicted, file with the Mayor or a
Council member of said city a true statement, under oath, as to the nature and
character of such damages or injuries, the extent of same, and the place where
same happened, the circumstances under which it happened, the conditions
causing same, with a detailed statement of each item of damages and the amount
thereof.
   (B)   If any part of the foregoing is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be involved, the remainder thereof shall remain in full force
and effect.
(Ord. 07-86, passed 8-4-1986)
TYPE A GENERAL LAW MUNICIPALITY
§ 30.15 TYPE A GENERAL LAW MUNICIPALITY.
   (A)   The Town of Lindsay hereby changes to a Type A general law
municipality.
   (B)   A copy of this section shall be entered upon the minutes of the
governing body of the town, and a copy of the same, signed by the Mayor and
attested by the Secretary under the corporate seal shall be filed in the office
of the County Clerk.
   (C)   The official name of the town shall hereafter be known as the City of
Lindsay, and its governing body shall hereafter be known as the City Council.
(Ord. 09-02-03, passed 9-9-2002)
MAYOR
§ 30.30 AUTHORIZING THE EXPENDITURES BY THE MAYOR FOR THE PURCHASE OF SUPPLIES,
EQUIPMENT OR SERVICES.
   (A)   Expenditures by Mayor on behalf of the city. The Mayor of the city is
hereby authorized to make expenditures on behalf of the city for the purchase
of supplies, equipment or services in an amount up to, but not exceeding
$5,000, per expenditure.
   (B)   Periodic review By Council. Any and all expenditures authorized by the
Mayor by the terms of this section shall:
      (1)   Have been already included in the adopted budget (except in an
emergency);
      (2)   Have been verified by the City Secretary that funds are available;
and
      (3)   Be itemized and presented to the City Council for review at a
regular meeting of the City Council when the Council reviews and authorizes
payment of other city bills and expenses.
   (C)   Reauthorization required. This section shall automatically terminate
on the earlier of the following dates:
      (1)   At the end of each fiscal year (i.e., September 30); or
      (2)   Upon election of a new Mayor.
(Ord. 1007-1, passed 10-8-2007; Ord. 0318-1, passed 3-19-2018; Ord. 0618-2,
passed 6-11-2018)
§ 30.31 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   Generally. The recitals contained in the preamble of Ord. 0318-2 are
determined to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as a part of this
section.
   (B)   Specified powers of the Mayor. The city hereby adopts an enumeration
of specific powers that may be exercised by the Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor is the presiding officer of the City Council meetings,
and, except in elections, may only vote in the event of a tie vote.
      (2)   The Mayor is the Chief Executive Officer of the city. The Mayor
shall actively ensure that the laws and ordinances of the city are enforced.
The Mayor must also perform all duties prescribed by the City Council.
      (3)   The Mayor has the express powers to declare a local state of
disaster and as the Emergency Management Director for the city has statutory
powers and duties during an emergency.
      (4)   The Mayor is empowered to inspect the conduct of the officers and
employees of the city. This power does not include the power to hire and fire
without the approval of the City Council.
      (5)   The Mayor may administer oaths of office (i.e., swearing in
ceremonies).
      (6)   The Mayor may sign contracts, deeds, easements, bonds and other
documents as directed or authorized by the City Council.
      (7)   The Mayor may call a special Council meeting, at the Mayor’s
discretion, or a special meeting may be called at the request of two Council
members.
      (8)   The City Council may confer additional powers and duties on the
Mayor in addition to those provided by state law.
   (C)   Express limitations on the powers of the Mayor. The following are an
enumeration of specific limitations on powers that may be exercised by the
Mayor.
      (1)   The Mayor with requisite approval of the City Council may make
appointments to certain vacant offices of the city, other than vacancies on the
City Council, and in accordance with state law.
      (2)   The Mayor may not take adverse actions against officers or
employees of the city or against public service providers hired by the city
without the express written consent and a super majority (i.e., a four-fifths
vote) of the City Council.
      (3)   All policy initiatives may not be implemented without the express,
written consent of the City Council.
      (4)   Any rule or regulation initiated by the Mayor must first by
approved by the City Council.
      (5)   All complaints presented to the city should be processed by the
Mayor. If a complaint involves city staff or a public service provider, the
complaint must be presented to the City Council.
      (6)    Membership on any committee, sub-committee, board, or commission
that will transact business for or on behalf of the city shall be appointed by
the and confirmed by the City Council. Membership on any committee, sub-
committee, board, or commission must be approved by a vote by the City Council.
(Ord. 0318-2, passed 3-18-2018; Ord. 0618-1, passed 6-11-2018)
CITY COUNCIL
§ 30.45 AGENDA.
   (A)   Recitals. The recitals contained in the preamble of Ord. 0318-3 are
determined to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as a part of this
section.
   (B)   Policy. Policy establishing guidelines for placement of items on a
City Council agenda are as follows.
      (1)   Any Council member, which includes the Mayor, may submit no more
than three items to be placed on a City Council agenda. The items requested
shall be placed on the earliest possible agenda for which the submission
deadline is met, unless a later date is otherwise requested by the Council
member or Mayor submitting the item.
      (2)   In addition, the following stipulations apply.
         (a)   The City Administrator, or the City Secretary in the absence of
a City Administrator, has the primary responsibility for establishing the
agenda for City Council meetings and may list items to be considered by the
Council.
         (b)   For an item to be placed on the agenda at a regular Council
meeting, the item must be submitted on a form and as prescribed in division (B)
(2)(c) below and received by the City Secretary’s office no later than 12:00
p.m. on the fifth day preceding the regular Council meeting. For special
Council meetings, the deadlines for submission shall be adjusted accordingly.
         (c)   To have an item listed on the agenda for a meeting of the City
Council, the Mayor or a member of the City Council shall fill out and complete
a form that will be available in the office of the City Secretary. The form
shall indicate the date of the City Council meeting at which the member desires
for the item to be listed on the agenda, the topic that he or she desires to be
listed, and a description of any research, document preparation or other staff
work that will be required to present the topic. If no staff work will be
required to present the topic, the form shall be submitted to the office of the
City Secretary not later than noon on the fifth day before the date of the
meeting. If staff work will be required to present the topic, the form shall be
submitted to the office of the City Secretary not later that noon on the
twenty-first day before the date of the meeting. In all cases, the form
submitted by the member of the City Council shall describe the topic to be
listed with sufficient particularity to enable a person reading the agenda to
determine the nature and scope of the matter to be addressed.
         (d)   In an open meeting, the Council may direct that items be placed
on a future agenda.
         (e)   The agenda packets for all regular Council meetings will be
available to Council members, including the Mayor, no later than 12:00 p.m. on
the Friday preceding the meeting. For special Council meetings, the agenda
packets shall be available to Council members, including the Mayor, as soon as
reasonably practicable.
         (f)   Members of the city staff and legal counsel may place as many
items on the City Council agenda for discussion or action as necessary to
ensure the proper and necessary conduct of city business.
         (g)   The combined total of items placed on a City Council agenda by
the Mayor and City Council may not exceed 12 items. The City Secretary may not
accept or place more than three items on any City Council agenda from a request
by the Mayor or City Council member. The City Secretary shall number each
request for placement on a City Council agenda received under this section in
the order in which the requests are received. The first 12 items received shall
be the items placed on the agenda.
(Ord. 0318-3, passed 3-18-2018)
CHAPTER 31: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Police Department
   
31.01   Office of City Marshal abolished
   
31.02   City Police Department created
   
31.03   Chief of Police
Reserve Police Officers
   
31.15   Establishment
   
31.16   Appointment
   
31.17   To act in supplementary capacity
   
31.18   Approval by City Council
   
31.19   Training standards
   
31.20   Approval by Chief of Police and City Police Commissioner
   
31.21   Serves at discretion of Chief of Police
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.01 OFFICE OF CITY MARSHAL ABOLISHED.
   By authority granted by the legislature of the state, the office of City
Marshal is hereby abolished.
(Ord. 09-02-04, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 31.02 CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT CREATED.
   There is hereby created a City Police Department which shall consist of such
officers and other employees as the City Council shall from time to time
authorize and which shall have all the powers of the Marshal by law.
(Ord. 09-02-04, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 31.03 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The position of Chief of Police is hereby created to administer the Police
Department. The Chief of Police shall be appointed and terminated by the City
Council. The Chief of Police shall be a qualified and commissioned peace
officer of the state.
(Ord. 09-02-04, passed 9-9-2002)
RESERVE POLICE OFFICERS
§ 31.15 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby authorized the establishment of the position of reserve
police officer for the city. The number of reserve police officers shall not
exceed one without the specific authorization of the City Council.
(Ord. 1114-2, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 31.16 APPOINTMENT.
   Any member of the reserve police force shall be appointed by the Chief of
Police and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 1114-2, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 31.17 TO ACT IN SUPPLEMENTARY CAPACITY.
   Reserve police officers shall act only in a supplementary capacity to the
regular police force. Reserve police officers may be called into service by the
Chief of Police when the Chief, in his or her discretion, considers it
necessary to have additional officers to preserve the peace and enforce the
law. When called into service, the reserve police officer shall serve as a
peace officer during the actual discharge of official duties.
(Ord. 1114-2, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 31.18 APPROVAL BY CITY COUNCIL.
   No person appointed to the reserve police force may carry a weapon or
otherwise act as a peace officer unless he or she has been approved by the City
Council and has fulfilled the minimum training standards established by the
Commission of Law Enforcement Standards and Education. After approval and
fulfillment of the minimum training standards, he or she may carry a weapon
only when authorized by the Chief of Police and when discharging official
duties as a duly constituted peace officer.
(Ord. 1114-2, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 31.19 TRAINING STANDARDS.
   A reserve police officer must fulfill the minimum training standards
established for all reserve law enforcement officers by the Commission of Law
Enforcement Standards and Education. Any reserve police officer shall further
possess and maintain the minimum physical, mental, educational and moral
standards established for all reserve law enforcement officers by the
Commission of Law Enforcement Officers Standards and Education.
(Ord. 1114-2, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 31.20 APPROVAL BY CHIEF OF POLICE AND CITY POLICE COMMISSIONER.
   No person appointed as a reserve police officer may carry a weapon or
otherwise act as a peace officer unless he or she has been approved by the
Chief of Police and the City Police Commissioner and has been subject to a
thorough background check by the Chief of Police and the Police Commissioner on
behalf of the City Council, and has otherwise satisfied all of the minimum
training standards for the City Police Department.
(Ord. 1114-2, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 31.21 SERVES AT DISCRETION OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   Any reserve police officer serves at the discretion of the Chief of Police
subject to the concurrence of the City Council.
(Ord. 1114-2, passed 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 32: PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
Section
   
32.01   Procurement guidelines
   
32.02   Periodic review by Council
Purchasing Policy and Procedure
   
32.10   Purpose
   
32.11   Duties of the City Secretary
   
32.12   Duties of the Department Heads
   
32.13   Purchase order
   
32.14   Purchase dollar limits and authorization required
   
32.15   The requisition process
   
32.16   Use of cooperative purchasing agreements
   
32.17   Single source purchases
§ 32.01 PROCUREMENT GUIDELINES.
   The City Council hereby adopts by reference and attaches, as an indivisible
part, to this chapter the Texas Municipal League handbook, Texas Municipal
Procurement Laws Made Easy as a reference to aid the city in continuing to
follow the state regulations for Type A general law city procurement
procedures.
(Ord. 0715-2, passed 7-27-2015)
§ 32.02 PERIODIC REVIEW BY COUNCIL.
   All city procurements will be presented to the City Council for review and
approval at a regular meeting of the City Council to assure that all applicable
regulations are being followed. The Council will also review the policy to
determine if any updates are required.
(Ord. 0715-2, passed 7-27-2015)
PURCHASING POLICY AND PROCEDURES
§ 32.10 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the purchasing policy and procedures is to provide a means
for the acquisition of supplies and services that are required for the
operations of the City of Lindsay.
(Ord. 1222-1, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.11 DUTIES OF THE CITY SECRETARY.
   (A)   To observe and enforce the procedures as outlined and any related
regulations.
   (B)   To encourage that the purchasing policies and procedures are followed
whenever possible.
   (C)   To review each account being charged for sufficient funds before
authorizing a purchase or issuing a purchase order.
   (D)   To process approved requests to purchase and issue purchase orders.
   (E)   To explore the possibility of quantity buying in order to take full
advantage of discounts.
   (F)   To assist in disposal of surplus, obsolete, worn-out scrap material at
city sales or other methods as directed by City Council.
   (G)   To maintain a listing of vendors, classified according to material,
equipment, supplies and services. To advise vendors of the proper procedure in
which they may be placed on the vendors lists.
(Ord. 1222-1, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.12 DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   Department should plan their work so that "rush orders" and
emergencies will be held to an absolute minimum.
   (B)   In the event sufficient funds do not exist in a line item to cover the
purchase request, the Department Head must complete and submit to the City
Council line-item adjustment correcting insufficient accounts.
   (C)   Department Heads must sign and verify all invoices.
   (D)   No city employee shall purchase supplies, material, or equipment of
any kind through the city for personal use.
(Ord. 1222-1, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.13 PURCHASE ORDER.
   (A)   A purchase order number is required on all purchases over $100, with
the exception of those listed below. The Department Head, or an authorized
employee, must present a requisition to the City Secretary and request a
purchase order before proceeding to the vendor's place of business or placing
an order.
   (B)   If an emergency should arise after normal hours, the Department Head
or designee will make the purchase that is needed, and the Department Head must
notify the City Secretary immediately upon opening the next business day or
turn in proper documentation.
   (C)   The following payments and services do not require the issuance of a
purchase order for payment authorization.
      (1)   Tax payments;
      (2)   Insurance premium payments;
      (3)   Retirement system payments;
      (4)   Debt services payments;
      (5)   Investment payment;
      (6)   Utility services and cell phone;
      (7)   Operating leases/maintenance agreements;
      (8)   Annual contracts;
      (9)   Invoices for professional services (i.e. attorney fees and
engineering);
      (10)   Payment made for employee payroll deductions;
      (11)   Inter-local agreements;
      (12)   Contract services;
      (13)   Travel and lodging;
      (14)   Items specifically approved as part of the annual budget process;
      (15)   Items/services acquired through the competitive bid process;
      (16)   Customer deposit refunds; and
      (17)   Purchases under $100.01.
(Ord. 1222-1, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.14 PURCHASE DOLLAR LIMITS AND AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED.
   The following dollar limit and authorization requirements are to be followed
whenever possible. Any exceptions shall be notes and approved by the
appropriate authorization on the invoice. Employees are encouraged to use
city's purchase card based upon the limit that is assigned to each individual.
See attached quick reference sheet.
   (A)   Purchases $.01 to $100.00.
      (1)   May be purchased using the purchase card.
      (2)   Requires written Department Head approval.
      (3)   No purchase order required.
   (B)   Purchases of $100.01 to $1000.00.
      (1)   May be purchased using the purchase card.
      (2)   Required written Department Head approval.
      (3)   Requires Mayor approval.
      (4)   Purchase order required.
   (C)   Purchases $1,000.01 to $49,999.00.
      (1)   May be purchased using the purchase card.
      (2)   Requires three telephone quotes or catalog quotes.
      (3)   Required written Department Head approval.
      (4)   Requires Mayor approval.
      (5)   Requires City Council approval.
      (6)   Purchase order required.
(Ord. 1222-1, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.15 THE REQUISITION PROCESS.
   (A)   Requisitioning is formally requesting that a purchase be made and the
issuance of a purchase order. It is the first step after the need for a good or
a service is recognized. It includes a system of authorization and safeguards
so that improper or illegal purchasing is difficult both to initiate and to
conceal.
   (B)   The requisition form must be signed by the Department Head before it
is forwarded to the City Secretary to receive the purchase order.
   (C)   The requisition form originates in the using department. Preparation
must be done far enough ahead of the date that the goods/services are needed to
allow sufficient time for processing including;
      (1)   Obtaining bids or price quotes;
      (2)   Processing bids, placing purchase orders, or concluding contracts;
and
      (3)   Allowing delivery of goods or services.
   (D)   Attach quotes to the requisition and forward to the City Secretary.
(Ord. 1222-1, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.16 USE OF COOPERATIVE PURCHASING AGREEMENTS.
   Whenever possible the City of Lindsay will utilize cooperative purchasing
agreements. Cooperative purchasing agreements are normally agreements that will
include a list of items that have already been through the bids process and the
lowest and best qualified bidder has been approved. Listed below are examples
of authorized purchasing agreements. However, the city is not limited to only
this list.
(Ord. 1222-1, passed 1-10-2023)
§ 32.17 SINGLE SOURCE PURCHASES.
   From time-to-time items and/or services may qualify as a "single source"
item, meaning that the item being requested is available from only one source.
In this case, any requirements for quotes will not apply.
(Ord. 1222-1, passed 1-10-2023)
CHAPTER 33: TAXATION
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Goods-in-transit
Hotel Occupancy Tax
   
33.15   Definition
   
33.16   Tax rate
   
33.17   Exemption
   
33.18   Effective date of tax
   
33.19   Purchasing a hotel
   
33.20   Payment procedures
   
33.21   Penalties for failure to report or collect the tax
   
33.22   Enforcement authority
   
33.23   Management of funded activities
Taxation of Telecommunications Services
   
33.35   Tax authorized
   
33.36   Exemption repealed
   
33.37   Rate of tax
   
33.38   Copy of subchapter
   
33.39   Effective date
 
   
33.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 GOODS-IN-TRANSIT.
   The goods-in-transit, as defined Tex. Tax Code, § 11.253(a)(2), as amended
by Senate Bill 1, enacted by the 82th Texas Legislature in regular session,
shall remain subject to taxation by the city.
(Ord. 1011-3, passed 11-14-2011)
HOTEL OCCUPANCY TAX
§ 33.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL ROOM. A hotel, motel, tourist home, tourist court, lodging house, inn,
rooming house or bed and breakfast. The price of a room does not include the
cost of food served by the hotel or the cost of other personal services. The
use of the term HOTEL hereafter refers to the business operating a HOTEL ROOM
as defined above.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.16 TAX RATE.
   (A)   A local hotel occupancy tax rate of 4% of the fee paid for the use of
a hotel room normally used for sleeping within the city limits is hereby
established.
   (B)   In addition, a local hotel occupancy tax rate of 4% of the fee paid
for the use of a hotel room normally used for sleeping within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city is hereby established.
   (C)   Should the combined state, county and city hotel occupancy tax rate
exceed 15%, then the city’s tax rate is decreased until the combined total of
the tax rates equal 15%.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.17 EXEMPTION.
   An exemption from the hotel tax is granted for persons who have contracted
to use a hotel room for more than 30 consecutive days. In addition, federal
employees, foreign diplomatic personnel and certain high-level state employees
may present a tax exemption certificate to a hotel. State employees must pay
the hotel occupancy tax when paying their bill; this tax will be refunded to
the exempt employer through a separate process. The city may not grant
additional exemptions.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.18 EFFECTIVE DATE OF TAX.
   The effective date of the city’s hotel occupancy tax is January 1, 2005.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.19 PURCHASING A HOTEL.
   (A)   (1)   Persons buying a hotel must retain out of the purchase price an
amount sufficient to cover any delinquent hotel occupancy taxes that are due to
the city.
      (2)   If the buyer does not remit to the city such amount or show proof
that the hotel is current remitting its hotel occupancy taxes, the buyer
becomes liable for any delinquent hotel occupancy taxes due on the purchased
hotel.
   (B)   The purchaser of a hotel may request the city to provide a receipt
showing that no hotel occupancy tax is due on the property to be purchased. The
city is required to issue the statement not later than the sixtieth day after
the request. If the city fails to issue the statement within the deadline, the
purchaser is released from the obligation to withhold the amount due from the
purchase price.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.20 PAYMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The hotel customer pays the local hotel occupancy tax to the hotel.
The hotel then remits the tax to the city on a quarterly basis.
   (B)   The City Secretary will send a tax return form to each hotel business
by the last day of a fiscal quarter.
   (C)   The hotel business will complete the designated tax return form,
attach a copy of the hotel’s tax report completed for the State Comptroller,
pay the tax amount and return them to the City Secretary by the thirtieth of
the month following a fiscal quarter (i.e., January, April, July or October).
   (D)   The city may use the state report data to check the completeness of
the local report.
   (E)   The city may request hotel occupancy tax audit information from the
State Comptroller. However, the city must keep such information confidential
and use the information only for enforcement or administration of the city’s
hotel tax.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.21 PENALTIES FOR FAILURE TO REPORT OR COLLECT THE TAX.
   The city authorizes the imposition of a 15% penalty and a provision to allow
the collection of attorney fees against any hotel operator who is late or
fraudulent in remittances.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.22 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   In addition to the penalties described above, the city may take the
following action(s) against a hotel operator who fails to report or collect the
local hotel occupancy tax:
   (A)   Require the forfeiture of any revenue the city allowed the hotel
operator to retain for the cost of collecting the tax;
   (B)   Bring a civil suit against the hotel operator for noncompliance;
   (C)   Ask the District Court to enjoin operation of the hotel until the
report is filed and/or the tax is paid; and/or
   (D)   Any other remedies provided under state law.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 33.23 MANAGEMENT OF FUNDED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The city will approve in writing the portion of the city’s annual
budget that involves expenditures of hotel occupancy tax funds. This approval
will be in advance of any expenditure.
   (B)   The City Secretary will prepare and submit a quarterly report to the
City Council. The report must list all expenditures made by the city from the
hotel occupancy tax revenue. The report should also list which category the
expenditure qualifies under.
   (C)   The City Secretary will maintain complete and accurate financial
records of each expenditure of hotel occupancy tax revenue. These records must
be made available for inspection and review upon the request of the City
Council or upon a request from any other person.
   (D)   The city will maintain the hotel occupancy tax revenue in a separate
bank account established for that purpose. This account cannot be commingled
with any other account.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004)
TAXATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
§ 33.35 TAX AUTHORIZED.
   A tax is hereby authorized on all telecommunications services sold within
the city. For purposes of this section, the sale of telecommunications services
is consummated at the location of the telephone or other telecommunications
device from which the call or other communication originates. If the point of
origin cannot be determined, the sale is consummated at the address to which
the call or other communication is billed.
(Ord. 04-87, passed 4-4-1987; Ord. 0818-4, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 33.36 EXEMPTION REPEALED.
   The application of the exemption provided for in the Tex. Tax Code, §
321.210(a) is hereby repealed by the city as authorized by Texas Tax Code, §
321.210(b).
(Ord. 0818-4, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 33.37 RATE OF TAX.
   The rate of tax imposed by this section shall be the same as the rate
imposed by the city for all other local sales and use taxes as authorized by
the legislature of the State of Texas.
(Ord. 04-87, passed 4-4-1987; Ord. 0818-4, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 33.38 COPY OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The city secretary shall forward to the comptroller of the State of Texas by
United States registered or certified mail and by fax a copy of this subchapter
along with a copy of the minutes of the city council's vote and discussion on
this subchapter.
(Ord. 04-87, passed 4-4-1987; Ord. 0818-4, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 33.39 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective October 1, 2018.
(Ord. 04-87, passed 4-4-1987; Ord. 0818-4, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person or business which fails to collect the tax, fails to file a
return, files a false return or fails to timely make the remittance imposed
under §§
33.15 through
33.23 shall result in the person and/or business being guilty of a misdemeanor
and punishable under the provisions of the Tex. Penal Code. Each and every
occurrence that this section may be violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1204-2, passed 12-13-2004)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Financial management policy
Municipal Court Building Security Fund
   
34.15   Municipal Court Building Security Fund
Municipal Court Technology Fund
   
34.30   Establishment of Municipal Court Technology Fund
   
34.31   Establishment of amount of the fee and assessment and collection
   
34.32   Designated use of the Fund and administration
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT POLICY.
   (A)   Budget overview. The city shall annually adopt a balanced budget where
current estimated revenues plus available unreserved fund balances are equal to
or exceed current and proposed expenditures. Any year end surpluses will revert
to unappropriated balances for use in maintaining reserve levels, for capital
projects and/or “one-time only” expenditures.
   (B)   Budgetary controls. The city shall maintain a budgetary control system
to ensure adherence to adopted budget and associated appropriations. Monthly
reports shall be provided for Council approval, listing check detail for each
fund/account including item number, payee, account, paid amount from the
previous month. Monthly reports shall be provided for Council approval, showing
the bank reconciliation for each fund/account including beginning balance,
cleared transactions and uncleared transactions and ending balance and a
disbursements ledger showing all revenue and payments for the previous month.
   (C)   Policy. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide
for efficient, economical and effective controls over the creation, and
management of the city budget from creation to ultimate disposition, consistent
with the requirements of the Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code and accepted financial
management practice.
   (D)   Financial Management Officer. The City Secretary will serve as
Financial Manager for the city and will ensure adherence to the adopted budget
and associated appropriations; the preparation of required financial reports;
and the efficient management of city finances in accordance with city policy
and procedures.
   (E)   Control of unbudgeted expenditures. The legal level for expenditure
(expense) budget control is the Fund Level. Changes in line items should be
processed through the Mayor and/or the City Council. The City Financial Manager
is given latitude to stay within the total budgeted amount for each fund.
Unbudgeted items must be approved by the mayor and/or the city council
according to the Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code and city policy concerning approval of
expenditures and bidding for services.
(Ord. 0811-1, passed 8-8-2011)
MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND
§ 34.15 MUNICIPAL COURT BUILDING SECURITY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court Building
Security Fund (the “Fund”) pursuant to the Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure,
Article 102.017.
   (B)   The Municipal Court of the city (the “Municipal Court”) is hereby
authorized and required to assess a Municipal Court building security fee (the
“fee”) in the amount of $3 against all defendants convicted of a misdemeanor
offense by the Municipal Court. Each misdemeanor conviction shall be subject to
a separate assessment of the fee.
   (C)   A person is considered to have been convicted in a case if:
      (1)   Judgment, sentence or both are imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person receives deferred disposition; or
      (3)   The Court defers final disposition or imposition of the judgment
and sentence.
   (D)   The Municipal Court Clerk is hereby authorized and required to collect
the fee and to pay same to the treasury of the city. All fees so collected and
paid over to the treasury of the city shall be segregated in the Fund.
   (E)   The Fund shall be used only for the purpose of financing the purchase
of security devices and/or services for the building or buildings housing the
Municipal Court of the city. Security devices and/or services shall include any
and all items described in the Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 102.017
(d).
   (F)   The Fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the City
Council.
(Ord. 0406-7, passed 4-10-2006)
MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND
§ 34.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF MUNICIPAL COURT TECHNOLOGY FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created and established a Municipal Court Technology
Fund (the “Fund”) pursuant to the Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Article
102.0172.
   (B)   The Fund may be maintained in an interest bearing account and may be
maintained in the general revenue account.
(Ord. 0406-8, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 34.31 ESTABLISHMENT OF AMOUNT OF THE FEE AND ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   The Municipal Court of the city is hereby authorized and required to
assess a Municipal Court technology fee in the amount of $4 against all
defendants convicted of a misdemeanor offense by the Municipal Court. Each
misdemeanor conviction shall be subject to a separate assessment of the fee.
   (B)   A person is considered to have been convicted in a case if:
      (1)   Judgment, sentence or both are imposed on the person;
      (2)   The person receives deferred disposition; or
      (3)   The Court defers final disposition or imposition of the judgment
and sentence.
   (C)   The fee shall be collected on conviction for an offense committed on
or after this subchapter is adopted.
   (D)   (1)   The Municipal Court Clerk is hereby authorized and required to
collect the fee and to pay same to the Treasurer of the city.
      (2)   All fees so collected and paid over to the Treasurer of the city
shall be deposited into the Municipal Court Technology Fund.
(Ord. 0406-8, passed 4-10-2006)
§ 34.32 DESIGNATED USE OF THE FUND AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Fund shall be used only for the purpose of financing the purchase
of or to maintain technology enhancements for the Municipal Court of the city.
Technology enhancements shall include any and all items described in the Tex.
Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 102.0172.
   (B)   The Fund shall be administered by or under the direction of the City
Council.
(Ord. 0406-8, passed 4-10-2006)
CHAPTER 35: CITY POLICIES, PLANS AND PROGRAMS
Section
General Provisions
   
35.01   Disaster Preparedness Action Plan
Records Management Program
   
35.15   Definition
   
35.16   Records declared public property
   
35.17   Policy
   
35.18   Records Management Officer
   
35.19   Records control schedule
Smoking Ban
   
35.30   Definitions
   
35.31   Offense committed
   
35.32   Smoking area
   
35.33   Signage
   
35.34   Place of employment within the city
   
35.35   Exception
   
35.36   Public places exempted
   
35.37   Offense committed by owner, lessee or person in charge
 
   
35.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 35.01 DISASTER PREPAREDNESS ACTION PLAN.
   The Disaster Preparedness Plan, a copy of which is attached to and
incorporated by reference in this section as if set out in full herein, is
hereby adopted as the City Disaster Preparedness Action Plan to become
effective after September 13, 2004.
(Ord. 0904-1, passed 9-13-2004)
RECORDS MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
§ 35.15 DEFINITION.
   All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs, sound or video
recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media or other information
recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and regardless
of whether public access to it is open or restricted under the laws of the
state, created or received by the city or any of its officers or employees
pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business are hereby declared to
be the RECORDS OF THE CITY and shall be created, maintained and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter or procedures authorized by
it and in no other manner.
(Ord. 1204-1, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 35.16 RECORDS DECLARED PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All records as defined in §
35.15 of this Plan are hereby declared to be the property of the city. No
official or employee of the city has, by virtue of his or her position, any
personal or property right to such records even though he or she may have
developed or compiled them. The unauthorized destruction, removal from files or
use of such records is prohibited.
(Ord. 1204-1, passed 12-13-2004) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.17 POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use and disposition of all records of this office
through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for the management of
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirements of the Local Government Records Act, being Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code,
Chs. 201 to 205, and accepted records management practice.
(Ord. 1204-1, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 35.18 RECORDS MANAGEMENT OFFICER.
   The City Secretary will serve as Records Management Officer for the city as
provided by law and will ensure that the maintenance, destruction, electronic
storage or other disposition of the records of this office are carried out in
accordance with the requirements of the Local Government Records Act Tex. Loc.
Gov’t Code, Chs. 201 to 205.
(Ord. 1204-1, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 35.19 RECORDS CONTROL SCHEDULE.
   Appropriate records control schedules issued by the Texas State Library and
Archives Commission shall be adopted by the Records Management Officer for use
in the city, as provided by law. Any destruction of records of the city will be
in accordance with these schedules and the Local Government Records Act Tex.
Loc. Gov’t Code, Chs. 201 to 205.
(Ord. 1204-1, passed 12-13-2004)
SMOKING BAN
§ 35.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by an employer in consideration for
monetary compensation or profit.
   EMPLOYER. Any person, partnership, corporation, association or other entity
that employs one or more persons.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed indoor area under the control of an
employer to which employees have access during the course of employment,
including, but not limited to, work areas, employee lounges, employee
restrooms, conference rooms and employee cafeterias. A private residence is not
a PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT.
   PUBLIC PLACE.
      (1)   Any enclosed indoor area that is used by the general public, or
that is a place of employment, and includes, but is not limited to: stores,
offices, and other commercial establishments; restaurants; public and private
institutions of higher education; health care facilities; nursing and
convalescent homes; and government subsidized senior citizen residential
facilities; and
      (2)   Any public swimming pool owned or operated by the city, inclusive
of the entire area within the enclosure device.
   SERVICE LINE. Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for
or receiving service of any kind, whether or not such service involves the
exchange of money.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. The act of inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any
lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe or other lighted or heated tobacco or
plant product intended for inhalation whether natural or synthetic in any
manner or in any form. SMOKE or SMOKING also includes the use of an electronic
smoking device which simulates smoking by using a mechanical heating element,
battery, or electronic circuit to deliver an aerosol or vapor that may include
nicotine in any manner or any form. SMOKE or SMOKING shall also include the use
of any oral smoking device for the purpose of circumventing the prohibition of
smoking in this chapter.
(Ord. 1209-1, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 1019-2, passed 10-14-2019)
§ 35.31 OFFENSE COMMITTED.
   A person commits an offense if he or she:
   (A)   Knowingly or intentionally smokes in a public place and is not in an
area designated as a smoking area under this subchapter; and/or
   (B)   Is the owner, lessee or other person in charge of a public place, and
knowingly or intentionally permits, or fails to make a reasonable effort to
prevent commission, by another, of the offense described in division (A) above
within such public place.
   (C)   Knowingly or intentionally smokes on any property owned by the city,
including the city parks and is not in an area designated as a smoking area
under this section.
(Ord. 1209-1, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 0718-1, passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.32 SMOKING AREA.
   (A)   The owner, lessee or other person in charge of a public place may, but
is not required to, designate one or more areas as smoking areas.
   (B)   If a smoking area is designated in a public place, each such smoking
area shall:
      (1)   Be not larger in size than proportionate to the preference of the
users normally requesting a smoking area, as can be demonstrated by the owner,
lessee or other person in charge;
      (2)   Be situated so the ventilation minimizes the effect of smoke in
adjacent nonsmoking areas, and so that air from the smoking area is not drawn
onto or across a nonsmoking area;
      (3)   Be designated by appropriate signs which are clearly visible to
patrons in or entering the area;
      (4)   Contain ashtrays, containers or other facilities for extinguishing
of smoking materials;
      (5)   Be set apart or separated from nonsmoking areas; and
      (6)   Not include service line or cashier areas.
   (C)   In the event the owner, lessee or person in charge of a public place
can demonstrate that the users or patrons normally requesting a smoking area
constitute such a large portion of the users of the public place that it is
impracticable for the owner, lessee or person in charge to meet the
requirements of divisions (B)(2) and (B)(5) above without structural or other
physical changes or significant expenditures, the owner, lessee or person in
charge may designate an area not meeting the requirements of division (B)(6)
above as a smoking area. If the entire area is designated a smoking area, the
owner, lessee or person in charge shall place a sign or signs at each entrance
to the premises which are clearly visible and state that smoking is permitted
throughout the premises.
(Ord. 1209-1, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 35.33 SIGNAGE.
   Except as provided by §
35.32, the owner, lessee or other person in charge of a public place shall
place a sign or signs, visible at each entrance to the premises, notifying
persons entering the premises that smoking is prohibited, or that smoking,
other than within designated smoking areas, is prohibited.
(Ord. 1209-1, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 35.34 PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT WITHIN THE CITY.
   Each employer who operates a place of employment in the city shall, within
three months of adoption of this subchapter, adopt, implement and maintain a
written smoking policy which shall contain, at a minimum, the following
provisions and requirements.
   (A)   (1)   Any nonsmoking employee may object to his or her employer about
smoke in any portion of his or her place of employment normally frequented by
said employee.
      (2)   Using already available means of ventilation, separation or
partition, the employer shall attempt to reach a reasonable accommodation,
insofar as possible, between the preferences of nonsmoking and smoking
employees.
      (3)   An employer is not required by this provision to incur any expense,
or make structural or other physical modifications to accommodate the
preferences of nonsmoking or smoking employees.
   (B)   (1)   If any accommodation which is satisfactory to all affected
nonsmoking employees cannot be reached as to any portion of the place of
employment about which complaint has been voiced, the preferences of nonsmoking
employees shall prevail, to the end that nonsmoking employees may work in a
smoke-free environment.
      (2)   No such portion of the place of employment shall be designated as a
smoking area; provided, however, the requirements of this division (B) shall
not apply to nonsmoking employees whose job duties include serving of or
routine interaction with members of the general public within designated
smoking areas, nor to any private enclosed office work space occupied
exclusively by smokers, even though such office may be visited by nonsmokers.
   (C)   The smoking policy shall be announced within three weeks of adoption
to all employees working in the place of employment and posted conspicuously in
all workplaces under the employers jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1209-1, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 35.35 EXCEPTION.
   It is an exception to the application of §
35.31(A) that the person smoking tobacco or in possession of the burning
tobacco product is in a situation in which the person is present at an event in
which an entire room or confined area is used for a private social function and
the event is under the control of the sponsor of the function and not of the
owner, proprietor or person in charge of the public place. This exception
includes, but is not limited to, areas of public places, such as hotels, which
are normally rented out to private groups, and to areas of bowling centers used
by bowling leagues during league play.
(Ord. 1209-1, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 35.36 PUBLIC PLACES EXEMPTED.
   The following public places are not subject to §§
35.31(B) and
35.32(B), but such public places are encouraged, whenever possible, to follow
the guidelines established in §
35.32(B):
   (A)   An establishment in which more than 50% of its annual gross sales is
from alcoholic beverages sold for on-premises consumption;
   (B)   A separated bar area of a restaurant; and
   (C)   A tobacco specialty retail shop.
(Ord. 1209-1, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 35.37 OFFENSE COMMITTED BY OWNER, LESSEE OR PERSON IN CHARGE.
   The owner, lessee or other person in charge of any conveyance or place
described in this subchapter commits an offense:
   (A)   If he or she fails to have prominently displayed a reasonable sized
notice that smoking is prohibited by state law in such conveyance and/or place;
or
   (B)   If he or she fails to have such conveyance or place equipped with
facilities for extinguishing of smoking materials.
(Ord. 1209-1, passed 12-14-2009) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of §§
35.30 through
35.37 shall be unlawful and a misdemeanor offense punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500; each day a violation of §§
35.30 through
35.37 continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1209-1, passed 12-14-2009; Ord. 0718-1, passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 36: CITY EMPLOYEES
Section
   
36.01   Employment “at will”
   
36.02   Definitions
   
36.03   Employee classifications
   
36.04   Work week
   
36.05   City Hall hours
   
36.06   Compensation
   
36.07   Health insurance
   
36.08   Holidays
   
36.09   Vacation
   
36.10   Municipal retirement system
§ 36.01 EMPLOYMENT “AT WILL”.
   All employees are hired “at will” and employment with the city establishes a
relationship in which an employee can be dismissed by the city for any reason
(i.e., without having to establish “just cause” for termination) and without
warning.
(Ord. 1014-1, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 36.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXEMPT AND NON-EXEMPT EMPLOYEE.
      (1)   EXEMPT. Exempt from minimum and/or overtime wage requirements as
defined by the Fair Labor Standards Act and C.F.R. Title 29.
      (2)   NON-EXEMPT. All other employees.
   FULL-TIME and PART-TIME.
      (1)   REGULAR FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT. Working 40 hours or more in a work
week.
      (2)   REGULAR PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT. Working 35 hours or less in a work
week.
      (3)   TEMPORARY FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT. Working 40 hours or more in a work
week for a predetermined period and not eligible for city benefits.
      (4)   TEMPORARY PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT. Working 35 hours or less in a work
week for a predetermined period and not eligible for city benefits.
(Ord. 1014-1, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 36.03 EMPLOYEE CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   City Clerk: hourly, regular part-time.
      (2)   City Secretary and Court Clerk: salaried (exempt from overtime),
regular part-time.
   (B)   Law enforcement. Police Chief: salaried (exempt from overtime),
regular full-time.
   (C)   Public Works.
      (1)   Director of Public Works: salaried (exempt from overtime), regular
full-time.
      (2)   Public Works employee IV: hourly, regular full-time.
      (3)   Public Works employee III: hourly, regular full-time.
      (4)   Public Works employee II: hourly, regular full-time or regular
part-time.
      (5)   Public Works employee I: hourly, regular part-time.
(Ord. 1014-1, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 36.04 WORK WEEK.
   The city’s work week shall begin on Monday at 12:00 a.m. and end on the
following Sunday at 11:59:59 p.m. of each week.
(Ord. 1014-1, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 36.05 CITY HALL HOURS.
   (A)   Monday and Thursday: 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., and 2:00 p.m. to 5:00
p.m.;
   (B)   Tuesday and Wednesday: 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., and 2:00 p.m. to 4:00
p.m.; and
   (C)   Friday closed.
(Ord. 1014-1, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 36.06 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Pay schedule. City employees shall be paid as follows. All employees:
bi-weekly (i.e., occurring every two weeks).
   (B)   Overtime. Overtime, when ordered for the maintenance of essential city
functions, shall be allocated as evenly as possible. City employees paid by the
hour shall be paid time and one-half of their regular hourly rate for all
approved overtime work of one hour or more in excess of 40 hours per work week.
   (C)   Compensatory time. When authorized to full-time salaried employees, it
must be taken within the same pay period as the overtime occurred.
(Ord. 1014-1, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 36.07 HEALTH INSURANCE.
   (A)   Health insurance will only be made available to regular full-time
employees working 40 hours or more per week. Percentage of city participation
in the premium payment (cost) for the eligible employee is to be reviewed not
less than annually and subject to change upon 30 days’ notice to the employee.
   (B)   The cost of dependent coverage for an eligible employee is the sole
responsibility of the employee.
(Ord. 1014-1, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 36.08 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   Holidays:
      (1)   New Year’s Day;
      (2)   Good Friday;
      (3)   Memorial Day;
      (4)   Independence Day;
      (5)   Labor Day;
      (6)   Veterans Day;
      (7)   Wednesday before Thanksgiving Day;
      (8)   Thanksgiving Day;
      (9)   Christmas Eve Day;
      (10)   Christmas Day, (ten days total); and
      (11)   Such other days as may be declared by the City Council.
   (B)   All hourly employees required to work on a holiday shall receive
payment for the hours worked on the holiday at a rate of regular pay in
addition to the eight hour pay for the holiday as permanent full-time employees
not working the holiday.
   (C)   All regular part-time employees who would normally have worked on a
day of the week observed as a holiday shall be entitled to holidays with pay
for the number of hours they would have worked on the day if the holiday had
not occurred.
(Ord. 1014-1, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 36.09 VACATION.
   (A)   Upon completion of 12 months continuous service, all regular full-time
employees are eligible for paid vacation leave as follows:
 
Years of Service              Weeks of Vacation
1 through 5 years of service  2 weeks per year
6 through 12 years of service 3 weeks per year
13 or more years of service   4 weeks per year
 
   (B)   Upon completion of the 36 months continuous service, all regular part-
time employees are eligible for paid vacation leave as follows:
 
Years of Service             Weeks of Vacation
4 through 6 years of service 1 week per year
7 or more years of service   2 weeks per year
 
   (C)   Earned vacation must be taken within 12 months of eligibility or
forfeited.
(Ord. 1014-1, passed 10-13-2014)
§ 36.10 MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   The City Council of the City of Lindsay, Texas, on behalf of the city,
hereby exercises its option and elects to have this city and all of the
employees of all departments now existing and those hereafter created
participate in the System as provided in the TMRS Act.
   (B)   The Mayor is hereby directed to notify the Board of Trustees of the
System that this city has elected to participate and have the employees of the
city covered in said System.
   (C)   Each person who becomes an employee of this city on or after the
effective date of participation of this city whose position shall require more
than 1,000 hours per year shall become a member of the System as a condition of
their employment.
   (D)   Each employee of this city who is a member of the System is eligible
to retire and receive a service retirement annuity if the member has at least
20 years of credited service in the System performed for one or more
municipalities that have adopted a like provision under § 854.202(g) of the
TMRS Act.
   (E)   In accordance with the provisions of the TMRS Act, the deposits to be
made to the System on account of current service of the employees of the
several participating departments are hereby fixed at a rate of 5% of the full
earning of each employee of said departments.
   (F)   Each employee who qualifies for such credit shall be allowed “prior
service credit” (as defined in § 853.101 of the TMRS Act) at a rate of 100% of
the “base credit” of such member, calculated in the manner prescribed in §
853.105 of said Act.
   (G)   For each month of current service rendered to this city by each of its
employees who are members of the System, the city elects to provide for each
such member at the time of his or her retirement, a sum of 150% of such
member’s accumulated deposits for such month of employment; and said sum shall
be liability of the city’s account in the benefit accumulation fund.
   (H)   The City Secretary is hereby directed to remit to the Board of
Trustees of the System, at its office in Austin, Texas, the city contributions
of the System and the amounts which shall be deducted from the compensation or
payroll of employees, all as required by said Board under the provisions of the
TMRS Act, and the said official is hereby authorized and directed to ascertain
and certify officially on behalf of this city the prior service rendered to the
said municipality by each of the employees of the participating departments,
and the average prior service compensation received by each of the employees of
the participating departments and make and execute all prior service
certifications and all other reports and certifications which may be required
of the city under the provisions of the TMRS Act, or in the compliance with the
rules and regulations of the Board of Trustees of the System.
   (I)   The city hereby elects to participate in the Supplemental Death
Benefits Fund of the System for the purpose of providing in-service death
benefits for each of the city’s employees who are members of the said System,
and for the purpose of providing post-retirement death benefits for annuitants
whose last covered employment was an employee of this city, in the amounts and
on the terms provided for in Tex. Government Code §§ 852.004, 854.601 through
854.605, 855.314, 855.408, and 855.502 of Title 8 Subtitle G, as amended.
   (J)   The city is hereby authorized and directed to notify the Director of
the System of adoption of the ordinance on which this section is based, and of
the participation of this city in said fund.
   (K)   Pursuant to § 855.407(g) of the TMRS Act, the city hereby elects to
make future normal and prior service contributions to its account in the
benefit accumulation fund of the System at such combined rate of the total
compensation paid by the city to employees who are members of the System, as
the System’s actuary shall annually determine as the rate necessary to fund,
within the amortization period determined as application to this city under the
TMRS Act, the costs of all benefits which are or may become chargeable to or
are to be paid out of this city’s account in said accumulation fund, regardless
of other provisions of the TMRS Act limiting the combined rate of city
contributions.
(Ord. 1118-3, passed 1-14-2019)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITY SERVICE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   DROUGHT
      
54.   SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 50: UTILITY SERVICE
Section
Regulations Applicable to All Users
   
50.01   General regulations applicable to all users
   
50.02   Enforcement
   
50.03   Application required
   
50.04   False statements in application
   
50.05   Persons responsible for charges
   
50.06   No service to other premises when account is delinquent
   
50.07   Right of entry
   
50.08   Tampering with lines
   
50.09   Taps to be made by municipal personnel
   
50.10   Services not required to out-of-municipality consumers
   
50.11   Water and sewer tap fees required
   
50.12   Meter deposits
   
50.13   Utility service deposit required
   
50.14   Water and sewer rate schedule
   
50.15   Charges to accrue
   
50.16   Multiple units served by one meter
   
50.17   Billing regulations
   
50.18   Discontinuation of service; notice
   
50.19   Discontinuation and reconnect charges
   
50.20   Service charge for insufficient funds check
   
50.21   Authorization
   
50.22   Notice requirements
   
50.23   Outside watering
   
50.24   General regulations
   
50.25   Out-of-municipality water services
   
50.26   Waste of water
   
50.27   Regulations affecting connections to system
   
50.28   Turning on or off at meter
   
50.29   Bypassing meter
   
50.30   Breaking lock on municipal stopcock
   
50.31   Damage to meter
   
50.32   Secondary taps prohibited
   
50.33   Dual connections prohibited
   
50.34   Patron responsible for service line condition and water usage
   
50.35   Fire hydrant use restricted
   
50.36   Access to meter
   
50.37   Inaccurate reading
   
50.38   Temporary service interruptions
   
50.39   Meter reread procedures and fees; testing of meter
   
50.40   Definitions
   
50.41   Sewer service required; exceptions
   
50.42   Service connections
   
50.43   Septic tank requirements
   
50.44   Stoppage or obstruction of sewer system
   
50.45   Cesspools prohibited
   
50.46   Sewer utility service
   
50.47   Water main installation
   
50.48   Owner of property to give notice of vacancy
   
50.49   Billing dispute and appeals
Utility Service Outside the Corporate Limits
   
50.60   Utility service outside city
 
   
50.99   Penalty
REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL USERS
§ 50.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL USERS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all persons provided
utility and sanitation collection services by the city, whether inside the
municipal limits or outside those limits.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   Except where other arrangements are specifically provided, it shall be the
duty of the Director of Public Works or his or her authorized agent to enforce
the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.03 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any person who moves into any premises within the city limits shall
file an application for water and/or sewer service in accordance with the rules
and requirements of the municipality before using the water or service
connections for such premises.
   (B)   If any customer shall change his or her place of residence or
business, he or she shall, within 48 hours after such change, give notice of
such change to the municipality.
   (C)   Where an application is accepted for water or sewer service, it shall
be considered the bona fide residence or place of business of the applicant.
Should water or sewer be disconnected for the nonpayment of bills or for other
violations of this subchapter, no new application will be accepted from the
owner, agent or any other person to continue service in such place or any other
place under any other name, so long as such place or any other place is
occupied by the original applicant as the bona fide resident or place of
business of same, until after all bills and penalties, damages to waterworks
equipment or other service charges have been paid in full or some form of
agreement has been reached.
   (D)   Should any person move into any premises supplied with water from the
municipal mains, without making an application in the manner provided for by
the municipality, such person shall become responsible for all water used from
the date of the last payment made on such account previous to his or her
occupying such premises, and the failure to pay same shall be cause for
disconnecting such service until the amount due is paid.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 FALSE STATEMENTS IN APPLICATION.
   (A)   If any person shall make false statements in the application for water
or sewer service, he or she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any consumer who discontinues his or her place of business or moves
from his or her residence and leaves a bill for water service or any other
services due the municipality and makes application for service at some other
address, either under his or her own name or under a different name, without
stating to the municipality the old address and name under which water or sewer
services were used at the address where there is a bill due, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR CHARGES.
   (A)   A utility account holder is liable for all charges for utility
services furnished to the property on the account. Any person over the age of
18 residing at the residence at the time that utility services are furnished is
liable for all charges for utility services furnished to the property.
   (B)   The owner of the property on a utility account shall be jointly liable
for all charges for utility services furnished to the property, even if the
owner is not the account holder or does not reside at the property. The city
shall have a lien against the property for all charges for utility services
furnished to an account on the property.
   (C)   If multiple persons reside at a property but are not all named as an
account holder, all persons that reside at the property shall be liable for all
charges for utility services furnished to the property.
   (D)   If multiple persons reside at a property and one or more of those
persons liable for utility services furnished to the property changes
residences, the persons changing residences shall continue to be liable for all
charges for utility services furnished prior to the change of residence and
shall not be furnished utility services at a new residence until all charges
for utility services that the person is liable for have been paid. If any
person that is liable to the city for charges for utility services furnished to
the person changes residences and is thereafter located using water at some
other residence, utility service to the person’s current residence shall be
turned off until all charges for utility services that the person is liable for
have been paid.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010; Ord. 1120-2, passed 11-3-2020) Penalty, see §  
50.99
§ 50.06 NO SERVICE TO OTHER PREMISES WHEN ACCOUNT IS DELINQUENT.
   No service shall be furnished to any person who is delinquent in the payment
of any bill for water or sewer furnished on the premises to which water or
sewer service is desired or to any other premises in the municipality.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   A duly authorized representative or agent of the municipality, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall have the right at all reasonable
times to go upon privately owned property for the purpose of inspection of
water service lines or mains and sewer connections and drains and all other
related lines or equipment. Upon refusal of the right to make such inspections,
any duly authorized representative or agent of the municipality shall have the
right to disconnect from such privately owned property all municipal sewer and
water connections.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.08 TAMPERING WITH LINES.
   Any person who shall tamper with, alter, change, bypass, divert or connect
to any water or sewer mains or service lines owned by the municipality without
first obtaining permission or consent of the municipality shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 TAPS TO BE MADE BY MUNICIPAL PERSONNEL.
   All sewer and water taps will be made by municipal personnel, after all
permits and application forms have been completed and required fees paid.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.10 SERVICES NOT REQUIRED TO OUT-OF-MUNICIPALITY CONSUMERS.
   The municipality is not required to furnish water or sewer services to
consumers beyond the corporate limits, or to continue to supply, once begun,
such services. The municipality reserves the right to provide services to such
consumers it deems advisable and to, at any time, wholly or partially,
discontinue such water and sewer services to any consumers located outside the
corporate limits of the municipality.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.11 WATER AND SEWER TAP FEES REQUIRED.
   The municipality shall install and maintain water and sewer service
connections in the streets, alleys and easements, and shall charge for the
installation of all such connections. Water and sanitary sewer tap fees shall
be paid to the municipality at the time application is made for each service
installation as provided for in the current fee schedule of the city.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010; Ord. 0715-1, passed 7-13-2015)
§ 50.12 METER DEPOSITS.
   A water meter deposit shall be paid to the municipality at the time
application is made for each service connection as provided for in the fee
schedule adopted by the city.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.13 UTILITY SERVICE DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   At the time of application for utility service, the applicant shall
make a security deposit in the amount as provided by the current fee schedule
adopted by the city.
   (B)   The security deposit may be waived for a requesting residential
applicant if the applicant presents a request of waiver and:
      (1)   The applicant has been determined to be a victim of family violence
as defined in the Tex. Family Code, § 71.004 by:
         (a)   An authorized family violence center as defined in Tex. Human
Resources Code, § 51.002;
         (b)   Law enforcement personnel;
         (c)   The office of the a State District Attorney or County Attorney;
         (d)   The office of the State Attorney General;
         (e)   A grantee of the Texas Equal Access to Justice Foundation; or
         (f)   By treating medical personnel.
      (2)   The applicant presents evidence of a valid, enforceable protective
order within the State of Texas for family violence as defined in the Tex.
Family Code, § 71.004.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010; Ord. 0716-2, passed 7-18-2016)
§ 50.14 WATER AND SEWER RATE SCHEDULE.
   Monthly rates and charges for water and sewer services furnished by the
municipality shall be determined in accordance with the current fee schedule
adopted by the city.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.15 CHARGES TO ACCRUE.
   All rates and charges for services to consumers’ premises shall accrue and
be charged against the consumer until such time as notice is given to the
office of the Municipal Secretary by the consumer or consumers authorized agent
to discontinue services to the consumer’s premises.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.16 MULTIPLE UNITS SERVED BY ONE METER.
   In all cases where two or more units are served by one meter, separate
minimum charges shall be made for each unit. No provision shall be made for a
vacancy in any unit unless the owner shall furnish satisfactory proof to the
Council that water service to such unit has been discontinued and at the same
time by a written statement agree that the unit shall be equipped with a
separate meter and a separate charge paid thereof.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.17 BILLING REGULATIONS.
   All monthly water, sewer and garbage charges shall be billed and considered
in all things as one charge; the payment shall not be divided at any time for
any reason and the payment shall apply to the bill as a whole. The monthly
charges shall become due and payable on the tenth of each month following the
month in which service was rendered, and shall be payable in full by the tenth
of the following month. If the tenth of the month falls on a Saturday or
Sunday, any payment received by the municipality prior to 9:00 a.m. on the
following Monday morning will be considered a timely payment. If the tenth of
the month falls on a holiday observed by the municipality, any payment received
by the municipality prior to 9:00 a.m. on the following work day will be
considered a timely payment.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010; Ord. 1119-1, passed 11-11-2019)
§ 50.18 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE; NOTICE.
   (A)   Water, sewer or garbage collection services to any customer are
subject to discontinuation after the last day of the month following the month
in which service was rendered.
   (B)   The following policies will be followed by the municipality regarding
discontinuation of service.
      (1)   When it becomes necessary for the municipality to discontinue
utility service to a customer for nonpayment of bill, service will be
reinstated only after all past due amounts for service, including any late
fees, service charges, deposits and reconnect fees have been paid; and
      (2)   It is the policy of the municipality to discontinue utility service
to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The municipality’s form
for application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to
the title, address and telephone number of the official in charge of billing,
clearly visible and easily readable state:
         (a)   All bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth on
the bill; and
         (b)   If any bill is not paid by or before the last day of each month
following the month in which service was rendered, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment. If the past due amount is not paid by the last day of the
current month, the water service shall be discontinued.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010; Ord. 1119-1, passed 11-11-2019)
§ 50.19 DISCONTINUATION AND RECONNECT CHARGES.
   If utility service is discontinued or reconnected, a fee shall be required
as prescribed in the current fee schedule, as adopted by the city, for each
time a municipal employee discontinues or reconnects service. If the meter is
pulled to prevent unauthorized use of water, an additional charge shall be made
in the amount prescribed in the current fee schedule adopted by the city.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.20 SERVICE CHARGE FOR INSUFFICIENT FUNDS CHECK.
   There is hereby established a service charge as prescribed in the current
fee schedule, adopted by the city, which shall be levied and assessed by the
municipality when an account for any water, sewer or garbage service provided
by the municipality or an account rendered or collected for the municipality is
paid by a check, draft or money order which is returned unpaid for lack of
sufficient funds or closed or nonexistent account. The customer giving such
check, draft or money order shall be mailed a notice requiring payment of the
check and a returned check charge within five business days from the date of
the sending of the notice. If such payment is not made in cash or with
certified funds within such time, water service shall be discontinued and not
be reconnected until payment of the reconnection fee. If any customer’s checks
are returned twice within any six calendar months, all future payments must be
in cash or certified funds. The Municipal Secretary may waive this provision
and the returned check charge upon presentation of letter from the financial
institution upon which the check or other instrument was drawn acknowledging an
error in return of such check.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.21 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Mayor is authorized to declare that a shortage of water exists in the
municipality at any time that in his or her opinion the unrestrained use of
water will create a danger to the water supply of the municipality, and during
such times he or she may designate when water may be used by customers and for
what purpose.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.22 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   Notice of such restricted use of water shall be given by publication in the
official newspaper of the municipality one time, by posting notices at three
places in the municipality or by actual notice to any person by an officer of
the municipality.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.23 OUTSIDE WATERING.
   All persons are prohibited from using water in the municipality for the
purpose of watering lawns and flowers and washing automobiles and trucks when
the Mayor has declared that a shortage of water exists, except that the Mayor
may designate certain hours when certain groups of persons may use water for
the above purposes during the existence of a shortage of water.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The municipality is not required to furnish water of any special or
specific analysis or in any special or specified amount but only undertakes to
furnish such water and amount of water that may be supplied from such sources
as the municipality may select and in an amount within the capacity of the
municipality’s pumping plants and storage facilities.
   (B)   If an accident impedes the municipality’s ability to supply water to
its patrons or to the municipality for the prevention or suppression of fire,
the municipality will not be liable for damages by reason of any such failure
to any patron of the water system or to any person or persons whose property
may have been destroyed by fire or otherwise damaged.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.25 OUT-OF-MUNICIPALITY WATER SERVICES.
   If any person, corporation, firm or business entity located outside the
municipal limits desires municipal water service and pays all expenses incurred
in extending the water mains and secures all necessary easements, so that the
municipality incurs no expense in such connection, and the municipality elects
to provide such water service to such patron, and provided all mains and lines
installed shall meet the requirements and approval of the Director of Public
Works, then such patron shall be furnished water at a rate of one and one-half
times the in-municipality rate.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.26 WASTE OF WATER.
   In case of willful or unreasonable waste of water by any patron, the
municipality shall have the right to cut off the water supply and recover all
damages. Such action of cutting off the water supply may be taken by the
Director of Public Works at any time after he or she shall learn of such waste.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 REGULATIONS AFFECTING CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM.
   All connections to the municipal waterworks system within the corporate
limits shall be made in the following manner:
   (A)   It shall be the policy of the municipality to supply water to its
patrons through mains owned or controlled by the municipality and which shall
be located in the streets, between the curb and sidewalk lines, or in alleys
adjacent to property being served, or on easements controlled or owned by the
municipality.
   (B)   The municipality may assess the estimated cost of breaking and
replacing pavement necessary to make such connection, in addition to the
regular service connection charge, such assessment to be paid with such service
charge, and the difference between assessment and actual cost of such breaking
and replacing shall be refunded to the patron when such work has been
completed.
   (C)   In addition to the above charges, the municipality may assess the
estimated cost of boring under or crossing over any street or highway in
furnishing water services.
   (D)   All lines constructed and meters installed under the provisions of
this section shall be the property of the municipality and the municipality
shall have full control and jurisdiction over such lines and meters.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.28 TURNING ON OR OFF AT METER.
   No person except authorized employees of the Utility Department shall turn
water on or off at the stopcock in the meter box without a written permit first
being obtained from the Utility Department. A charge as prescribed in the
current fee schedule, adopted by the city, shall be made for turning water off
or on at the customer’s request.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 BYPASSING METER.
   No person shall interfere with or bypass the municipality’s meter in such a
manner as to obtain water without the full amount thereof being registered on
such meter. Service shall be permanently disconnected from any account where a
bypass or other such device is discovered. Such account shall be reconnected
only at the discretion of the municipality and only after payment for water
used, as estimated by the municipality, at twice the rate otherwise applicable
plus the cost of rerouting and repairing the service to register water use
properly on the meter.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.30 BREAKING LOCK ON MUNICIPAL STOPCOCK.
   No person except authorized employees of the municipality shall break any
lock on the stopcock in the water meter box. Service to any account where a
broken lock is found will not be restored until all charges, including charges
for water received, have been paid, together with a charge of $25 for damage.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.31 DAMAGE TO METER.
   Service will be discontinued to any account where any meter or other
municipal water equipment is damaged. Service will not be reconnected until all
damage is paid for and all outstanding bills are paid.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.32 SECONDARY TAPS PROHIBITED.
   No patron of the waterworks system shall permit any person to tap any water
pipe leading into his or her premises without the consent of the Council or the
Council’s designee. Owners or occupants of premises having service pipes and
connections will be held strictly responsible for all uses of water from such
service by other parties.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.33 DUAL CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   Dual connections (more than one user on a single meter) shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.34 PATRON RESPONSIBLE FOR SERVICE LINE CONDITION AND WATER USAGE.
   Water consumers shall keep their own service pipe lines and apparatus in
good repair and condition and shall prevent all unnecessary waste of water. No
claim shall be made against the municipality by reason of breakage of any
service pipe or service cock, or from any damage by reason of shutting off the
water to repair mains, or for other purposes, and in case of neglect or refusal
to promptly repair any imperfection in the service pipes, lines, stops or other
fixtures, the Director of Public Works may cause the same to be done at the
expense of the owner, which expense shall be paid to the municipality before
water service is returned to the patron.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.35 FIRE HYDRANT USE RESTRICTED.
   Every hydrant placed for the purpose of extinguishing fires is hereby
declared to be a public hydrant and no person, other than members of the Fire
Department, the State Department of Health and those authorized by the Director
of Public Works, shall open any such hydrant or draw or attempt to draw water
from same or in any manner interfere with such hydrants.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.36 ACCESS TO METER.
   If easy access to a meter is obstructed by a patron or if entrance to the
premises is made dangerous for whatever reason, thereby preventing a meter
reader from obtaining a meter reading, the charges may be estimated for the
amount not to exceed double the normal charge. If the patron does not remedy
the condition or should he or she refuse to pay the estimated bill, the
municipality shall have the right to discontinue water service without further
notice and service shall not be resumed until the obstructive or dangerous
conditions have been remedied and all charges for water service paid.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.37 INACCURATE READING.
   If a meter fails to register the water actually consumed by reason of the
meter being out of order, the municipality may estimate the charge by the
customary consumption of the patron, taking into consideration the season of
the year.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.38 TEMPORARY SERVICE INTERRUPTIONS.
   The municipality reserves the right to temporarily discontinue and to
reconnect water supply to all consumers, without notice, for the purpose of
making repairs, connections, extensions, and cleaning of mains, machinery,
reservoir or any part of the Municipal Water and Sewer Department property.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.39 METER REREAD PROCEDURES AND FEES; TESTING OF METER.
   (A)   A water system customer believing a water meter reading to be
inaccurate may request a rereading. The person requesting a water meter to be
reread will be charged a fee as provided for in the current fee schedule as
adopted by the city. If the municipality is in error in the original reading or
if the meter is tested and found to register more than the warranty of the
meter manufacturer, the fee shall be refunded to the customer and appropriate
adjustment in the water service charges shall be made.
   (B)   Should a customer demand that a meter be tested for accuracy, he or
she shall make a deposit equal to the amount the municipality must pay to have
the meter tested. If the test shows that the meter is registering within the
warranty of the meter manufacturer or registering less water than is actually
used, the deposit shall become the property of the municipality; otherwise, the
deposit shall be refunded to the user.
   (C)   If the meter has been misread or the meter is found to register more
than the warranty of the meter manufacturer, billings will be adjusted to
reflect the inaccuracy. Adjustments shall be limited to the previous three
billing periods.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.40 DEFINITIONS.
   The SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM of the municipality consists of main and lateral
conduits of salt glazed vitrified earthenware, polyvinylchloride (PVC) plastic,
concrete or other similar pipe, with necessary accessories, and are designed to
transport liquid waste materials. The sewers in the alleys or streets adjacent
to the various lots are called MAIN OR LATERAL SEWERS. The sewers leading from
the main or lateral sewers to the property on either side are called HOUSE
SEWERS.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.41 SEWER SERVICE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building or
premises within the municipality to inhabit, use or permit anyone else to
inhabit or use a building or premises unless such building or premises is
connected with the sanitary sewer system of the municipality or a septic tank
system built according to the specifications of the State Department of Health
and the municipality.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or use a septic tank
for private waste disposal within the municipal limits, except when the
property to be served is more than 500 feet from a public sewer main line and
approval to use a septic tank is specifically granted by the Council.
   (C)   The owner of any property containing a structure used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose in which human waste is
generated shall be required to connect to the municipal sanitary sewer system
if a public sewer is available within 500 feet of such property.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010; Ord. 0212-2, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.42 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   The property owner shall install a sanitary sewer service line at his or her
expense to the municipality’s lateral, in accordance with regulations and
subject to the inspection of the municipality. He or she shall thereafter
maintain the service line to and including the service connection.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.43 SEPTIC TANK REQUIREMENTS.
   Any septic tank shall be installed in compliance with the provisions of the
most recent edition of the Construction Standards for On-Site Sewage Facilities
as published by the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010)
§ 50.44 STOPPAGE OR OBSTRUCTION OF SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit into the building
drainage system or sewer any ashes, cinders, rags, poisonous or explosive
liquids, gases, oils, grease or any other material which would or could
obstruct, damage or overload such system or sewer.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building or
premises to use, or permit anyone else to use, the building or premises unless
the building or premises shall be connected to a water supply sufficient to
ensure that sewer pipes will be kept free from accumulation of select materials
and obstructions.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.45 CESSPOOLS PROHIBITED.
   lt shall be unlawful for any person to dig or install any cesspool within
the municipality or repair any existing cesspool.
(Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.46 SEWER UTILITY SERVICE.
   All users of city utilities, shall be amended to include the following: it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, other than the city, to
provide sewer utility service to a property seeking sewer utility service where
the property is not connected to the city’s water utility system. Nothing
herein prevents the city simultaneously providing or approving service to
property seeking both water and sewer utility service.
(Ord. 0118-2, passed 1-15-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.47 WATER MAIN INSTALLATION.
   No installation of water and/or sanitary sewer mains will be made at any
other location except a dedicated street, alley or an easement running in favor
of the city which shall be filed of record by the owner of said addition. Any
such installation, when correctly made, shall become the property of the city,
free and clear of all encumbrances. In the event installation of water and/or
sanitary sewer facilities results in a condition such that water and/or
sanitary sewer utility improvements are not totally within city right-of-way,
dedicated streets, alleys, city easements or other appropriate city property,
then such installation will be automatically rejected and the owner or
developer shall be liable for correcting such condition or if the condition
currently exists then the owner or developer shall be liable for correcting
such condition. The owner and/or developer shall reimburse and indemnify the
city for any expense incurred due to any incorrect installation. Such
reimbursement shall include attorney fees and any other expense that arises
from the condition of an incorrect installation as described above.
(Ord. 0318-4, passed 3-18-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.48 OWNER OF PROPERTY TO GIVE NOTICE OF VACANCY.
   The owner of property to which utility service is furnished by the city
shall give notice of vacancy to the city on the next business day after the
property becomes vacant. Any utility services furnished shall remain the
responsibility of the account holder and any persons over the age of 18 that
resided at the property at the time the utility services were furnished. Any
utility services provided shall also be the responsibility of the owner of the
property to which the utility services were furnished. Failure to pay for
utility services may result in a lien placed on the property.
(Ord. 1119-1, passed 11-11-2019; Ord. 1120-2, passed 11-3-2020)
§ 50.49 BILLING DISPUTE AND APPEALS.
   (A)   The City Secretary is responsible for ensuring the integrity of the
utility billing system. If a customer would like to appeal a penalty or other
collections related fee, the City Secretary is charged with resolving the
billing issue in a manner satisfactory to both the city and customer. An appeal
of a penalty or other collections related fee shall be handled in accordance
with division (D). If a customer would like to dispute the correctness of all
or a part of the amount shown on a utility bill or notice of termination, the
dispute shall be handled in accordance with division (E).
   (B)   The city’s and customer’s liability for amounts related to billing
errors shall be limited to the two months preceding the charge being appealed.
   (C)   At any time before the date of termination of service for nonpayment
of the amount(s) shown on a utility bill or notice of termination, a customer
may dispute the correctness of all or part of the amount(s) shown in accordance
with the provisions of this section.
   (D)   The procedure for customer appeals of penalties or other collection
related fees shall be as follows:
      (1)   If a customer does not dispute the correctness of an amount(s)
shown on a utility bill or a notice of termination, but is appealing the
assessment of a penalty or other collections related fee, the customer shall
notify the City Secretary, orally or in writing, of the amount being appealed.
      (2)   At the City Secretary’s discretion, with approval of the Mayor, a
penalty or other collections related fee may be waived for a customer.
      (3)   The City Secretary within three days after receipt of the
customer’s notice shall notify the customer if the penalty or other collections
related fee will be waived.
   (E)   The procedure for customer disputes of an amount shown on a utility
bill or notice of termination shall be as follows:
      (1)   Before the date of termination of service, the customer shall
notify the City Secretary, orally or in writing, that he/she disputes all or
part of the amount(s) shown on a utility bill or a notice of termination,
stating as completely as possible the basis for the dispute.
      (2)   If the City Secretary determines that the present dispute is
untimely or that the customer previously disputed the correctness of all or
part of the amount(s) shown, the City Secretary shall mail to the customer a
notice stating that the present dispute is untimely or invalid. No further
action is required by the City Secretary.
      (3)   If the City Secretary determines that the present dispute is timely
and is not otherwise invalid under this section, the City Secretary, within
three days after the receipt of the customer’s notice, shall arrange an
informal meeting with the customer.
      (4)   Based on the city’s records, the customer’s allegations and all
other relevant materials available to the City Secretary, he/she shall resolve
the dispute, attempting to do so in a manner satisfactory to both the city and
the customer.
      (5)   Within three days of completion of the meeting, the City Secretary
shall mail to the customer a copy of his/her decision resolving the dispute.
The City Secretary shall have authority to adjust the amounts reflected on a
utility bill or notice of termination up to $25. If the City Secretary
determines that resolving the dispute will require an adjustment of more than
$25, the City Secretary may refer the dispute to the Mayor for consideration.
      (6)   If the decision is unsatisfactory to the customer, the customer,
within three days of receipt of the City Secretary’s decision, may request,
either orally or in writing, an informal hearing before the Mayor.
      (7)   If the customer requests an informal hearing with the Mayor or if
the City Secretary refers a dispute to the Mayor, the hearing before the Mayor
shall be held within three days of the city’s receipt of the customer’s written
request or the City Secretary’s decision to refer the dispute to the Mayor. The
City Secretary shall maintain minutes of this informal hearing with the Mayor.
      (8)   At the hearing, the customer shall be entitled to present all
evidence that is, in the Mayor’s view, relevant and material to the dispute.
      (9)   Based on the record established at the hearing, the Mayor, within
three days of the completion of the hearing shall issue his/her written
decision resolving the dispute. The Mayor shall have authority to adjust the
amounts reflected on a utility bill or notice of termination up to $500. If the
Mayor determines that resolving the dispute will require an adjustment of more
than $500, the Mayor may refer the dispute to the City Council.
      (10)   If the decision is unsatisfactory to the customer, the customer,
within three days of receipt of the Mayor’s decision, may request, in writing,
a formal hearing before the City Council at the next regularly scheduled
Council meeting.
      (11)   If the customer requests a formal hearing before the City Council
or if the Mayor refers the dispute to the City Council, the hearing shall be
held at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. At the hearing, the
city staff and the customer shall be entitled to present all evidence that is
relevant to the dispute and to examine and cross-examine witnesses.
      (12)   Based on the record established at hearing, the City Council,
through the Mayor, shall issue their written decision formally resolving the
dispute within five days of the completion of the hearing. The decision of the
City Council shall be final and binding on the city and customer.
   (F)   Utilization of this dispute/appeal procedure shall not relieve a
customer of their obligation to timely and completely pay all other undisputed
utility charges and/or installments and surcharges, and the undisputed portion
(s) of the amount(s) which is (are) the subject of the present dispute.
Notwithstanding division (D), failure to timely and completely pay all such
undisputed amounts shall subject the customer to termination of service in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (G)   Until the date of the City Council, the Mayor, or the City Secretary’s
decision, whichever is later, the City Secretary shall not terminate the
service of this customer and shall not issue a notice of termination to him or
her solely for nonpayment of the disputed amount(s). If it is determined that
the customer must pay some or all of the disputed amount(s), the director shall
promptly mail to or personally serve upon the customer a notice of termination
as provided in §
50.18.
(Ord. 1119-1, passed 11-11-2019)
UTILITY SERVICE OUTSIDE THE CORPORATE LIMITS
§ 50.60 UTILITY SERVICE OUTSIDE CITY.
   (A)   Utility service outside city. Any person desiring utility services
furnished by the city to property which is outside the limits of the city
shall, prior to the furnishing of utility service by the city, including water
and sewer, file a petition for annexation which shall be in the form prescribed
by Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, § 43.028 and execute a written agreement providing
minimum requirements as follows.
      (1)   The furnishing of utility services shall not be construed to compel
the city to furnish consumers beyond the corporate limits or to continue such
supply once begun.
      (2)   The city reserves the right to furnish such customers it deems
advisable, and to, at any time, wholly or partially discontinue the utility
service.
      (3)   Any utility main constructed outside of the corporate limits shall
be entirely at the owner’s expense and it, as and when incorporated within the
city, shall become the property of the city without reimbursement to the owner;
and, the city assumes no responsibility or liability for satisfactory service
maintenance, pressure or wastage until it acquires sole ownership as a part of
its utility system.
      (4)   In the event of a relocation or the construction of a permanent
line or main, the property owner shall pay the pro rata cost on his or her
property at the then applicable rates, and connect his or her service to said
permanent line or main.
      (5)   Exception: in no event shall sewer service be furnished beyond the
corporate limits unless the persons desiring sewer utility service are
currently receiving water from the water utility of the city, or an agreement
consistent with the provisions of this section to provide city water utility
service to the petitioner’s property has been reached.
   (B)   City Council action. The City Council may, if in its judgment it is
deemed advisable, render water or sewer services to premises situated outside
of the corporate limits of the city upon complying with this section, and in
addition, subject to the following conditions and rules.
      (1)   Water application; construction and materials requirements. Any
person desiring to use the water shall, when an extension of a main is
necessary to render such service, make application to the Public Works
Department requesting service, and shall state in such application the exact
location of the premises to be served and the purpose for which the water is to
be used. Such application shall also contain an agreement signed by the owner
of the property to be served which will render the owner liable for all water
rates or charges accruing under such service. In the event such application is
granted, such person so applying shall, at his or her own cost and expense, lay
the kind and character of water pipe prescribed by the city, the minimum size
of which shall be six inches, before connection with the city water main;
furthermore, any such person shall, at his or her own cost and expense,
purchase a meter together with a meter box and necessary fittings, all of which
shall be of the kind and character prescribed by the Public Works Department,
for the purpose of measuring water so petitioned for by the person, and such
water pipe and meter shall be kept at all times in a good condition of repair
at the cost of such person using the water and such water connections so made,
and all pipes laid by such person shall be in accordance with the regulations
governing connections and the laying of water pipes within the city.
      (2)   Sewer application; construction and materials requirements. Subject
to division (A)(5) above, any person desiring sewer service shall, when an
extension of a main is necessary to render such service, make application to
the Public Works Department, requesting service, and shall state in such
application the exact location of the premises to be served and the purpose for
which wastewater treatment is required. Such application shall also contain an
agreement signed by the owner of the property to be served which will render
the owner liable for all sewer rates or charges accruing under such service. In
the event such application is granted, such person so applying shall, at his or
her own cost and expense, engineer the proposed sewers and provide detailed
plans and specifications for review by the city’s Engineer. Furthermore, any
such person shall, at his or her own cost and expense, construct the sewer
pipe, manholes or lift station, and related appurtenances, all of which shall
be of the kind and character prescribed by the Public Works Department, for the
purpose of wastewater treatment so petitioned for by the person, and such sewer
collection system shall be kept at all times in a good condition of repair at
the cost of such person using the collection system so made, and all materials
laid by such person shall be in accordance with the regulations governing the
construction of sewer mains within the city.
   (C)   Written permission to connect. When such extension of water or sewer
mains or service pipes have been installed outside of the corporate limits and
application for additional service is made to connect with such extension or
service pipe, such applicant shall present with his or her application written
permission to connect with such extension of the main or service, signed by the
original applicant who paid the original cost thereof or by his or her assigns.
   (D)   City not liable for maintenance of pipe; discontinuance. The city
shall not be liable for the maintenance of any water or sewer main or service
pipe lying outside of the corporate limits of the city and the right is
reserved to discontinue water or sewer service through any such main or service
line which causes a waste or leakage of water or sewer.
   (E)   City not liable for defective condition of pipe or ditches. The city
shall in no case be liable on account of any defective condition in any water
or sewer pipe, or in any trench or ditch dug for the purpose of laying water or
sewer pipe by any person desiring to make connection with any of the city’s
mains, and it shall always be expressly understood that the person using said
water or sewer shall, at all times, keep the pipes, related appurtenances and
other connections in good condition of repair, and shall be liable for all
damages occasioned to any person or property by reason of any defective
condition arising through the want of repair, or otherwise, to the water or
sewer pipe or the ditches in which the same are laid.
   (F)   City may revoke permission. It is further understood that in no event
will the city, under the terms of this section, be obligated to continue to
furnish water or sewer service to any person outside of the corporate limits,
but may revoke the permission at any time without notice.
   (G)   Regulations. All such service outside the corporate limits shall, in
all respects not otherwise provided herein, be subject to the same regulations
for service and the manner of paying the compensation, as provided for service
inside of the corporate limits.
   (H)   Placing of meters. All meters serving premises outside of the
corporate limits shall be set inside (or as near as practicable) the corporate
limits, and the city shall not be responsible for the condition of any mains,
pipes or services outside of the corporate limits or beyond the meter serving
such premises.
   (I)   Inline valve. If approval is granted to locate the meter beyond the
corporate limits, an inline valve shall be installed at the corporate limits in
its place.
(Ord. 0805-3, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A late payment (delinquency) penalty of 10% of the amount owed as
prescribed in the current fee schedule, adopted by the city, shall be imposed
on any service accounts which are not paid within ten days after the account
becomes due and payable.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §§
50.01 through
50.47 shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not exceeding $2,000. Each day
that a provision of §§
50.01 through
50.47 is violated shall constitute a separate offense. An offense under §§
50.01 through
50.47 is a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
50.60 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon final conviction thereof
fined in an amount not exceeding $2,000 for violations of all provisions that
govern fire safety, public health and sanitation, and not exceeding $500 for
all other violations; provided, however, that no penalty shall be greater or
less than the penalty provided for the same or similar offense under the laws
of the state. Each and every day any such violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense punishable hereunder.
(Ord. 0805-3, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 0910-7, passed 9-27-2010; Ord. 0212-2,
passed 2-13-2012; Ord. 0715-1, passed 7-13-2015)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
Sale of Water
   
51.01   Service
   
51.02   Application
   
51.03   Meter deposit
   
51.04   Premises must comply with regulations of the city
   
51.05   Permit needed for connections
   
51.06   Resale of water prohibited
   
51.07   Unlawful to tamper
   
51.08   Service pipes
   
51.09   Repairs
   
51.10   Excavations
   
51.11   Shutoff boxes
   
51.12   Adequate meter
   
51.13   Easy access to meters
   
51.14   Rates
   
51.15   Bills
   
51.16   Shut off for unpaid bills
   
51.17   Deposit
Water Wells
   
51.30   Finding
   
51.31   Purpose
   
51.32   Definition
   
51.33   Domestic water wells prohibited; exceptions
   
51.34   General
   
51.35   Permit and permit fee
   
51.36   Inspections
   
51.37   Permit required for work on wells
   
51.38   Licensing required
 
   
51.99   Penalty
SALE OF WATER
§ 51.01 SERVICE.
   No water from the city water supply shall be turned on for service into any
premises by any person except the City Secretary or some person authorized by
the City Secretary to perform this service.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.02 APPLICATION.
   Application to have water turned on shall be made in writing to the City
Secretary and shall contain an agreement by the applicant to abide by and
accept all the provisions of this subchapter as conditions governing the use of
the city water supply by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.03 METER DEPOSIT.
   A meter deposit as prescribed in the current fee schedule shall be made with
each such application, the sum to be retained by the city, to ensure the
payment of all bills. When service to the applicant is discontinued
permanently, this deposit, less any amount due the city for water service,
shall be refunded without interest.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.04 PREMISES MUST COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS OF THE CITY.
   No water shall be turned on for service in premises in which the plumbing
does not comply with the ordinances of the city; provided, that water may be
turned on for the construction work in unfinished buildings, subject to the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.05 PERMIT NEEDED FOR CONNECTIONS.
   No connections with the watermain shall be made without a permit being
issued. All such connections shall be made and all such work done at the
expense of the applicant, who shall also furnish materials necessary for such
work; all such connections shall be made under the supervision of the City
Secretary and no connections shall be covered until the work has been inspected
by him or her. Applications for such connections must be made to the City
Secretary and a tapping fee as prescribed in the current fee schedule shall be
paid for each connection. After the city has obtained 60 users, the Council
shall redetermine the amount of the tapping fee, which shall in no event be
less than the actual cost to the city.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.06 RESALE OF WATER PROHIBITED.
   No water shall be resold or distributed by the applicant from the city
supply to any premises other than that for which application has been made and
a meter installed. There shall be no dual connections in which more than one
user shall use a single meter.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the city to tamper
with, alter or injure any part of the city waterworks or supply system or any
meter.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.08 SERVICE PIPES.
   All service pipes from the mains to the premises served shall be installed
by, and at the cost of, the owner of the property to be served on the applicant
for the service. Such installation shall be under the inspection of the City
Secretary.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.09 REPAIRS.
   All repairs for service pipes and plumbing systems of buildings shall be
made by and at the expense of the owners of the premises served. The city may
in the case of an emergency, repair any service pipes, and if this is done, the
cost of such repair work shall be repaid to the city by the owner of the
premises served.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.10 EXCAVATIONS.
   Excavations for installing service pipes or repairing the same shall be made
in compliance with the provisions relating to making excavations in the
streets; provided that it shall be unlawful to place any service pipe in the
same excavation with, or directly over, any drain pipe or sewer pipe.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11 SHUTOFF BOXES.
   (A)   Shutoff boxes or service boxes shall be placed on every service pipe,
and shall be located between the curb line and the sidewalk line where this is
practical.
   (B)   Such boxes shall be located so that they are easily accessible and
shall be protected from freeze.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.12 ADEQUATE METER.
   All premises using the city water supply must be equipped with an adequate
meter furnished by the city but paid for by the consumer.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.13 EASY ACCESS TO METERS.
   Meters shall be installed in a location that will be easy of access. The
City Secretary shall read or cause to be read every water meter used in the
city at such times as are necessary that the bills may be sent out at the
proper time.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.14 RATES.
   (A)   All property upon which any building has been or any hereafter be
erected having a connection with any mains or pipes which may be hereafter
constructed and used in connection with the city water supply shall pay the
following rates per month: As prescribed in the current fee schedule.
   (B)   The minimum monthly rate shall be as prescribed in the current fee
schedule; the rate shall apply to both residential and commercial use. The city
shall permit no free service of water.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.15 BILLS.
   Bills for water shall be dated and sent out at such times each month as may
be directed by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.16 SHUT OFF FOR UNPAID BILLS.
   The water supply may be shut off from any premises for which the water bill
remains unpaid, in accordance with the policies and procedures in §§
50.18 and
50.19 of this code.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980)
§ 51.17 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Each person or firm shall deposit with the city, a sum as prescribed
in the current fee schedule prior to any water being provided to that person or
firm.
   (B)   Each owner of a residence, and industrial or commercial establishment
shall be solely liable and responsible for all deposits required and all
charges made by the city, for water provided to his, her or their respective
properties.
(Ord. 01-90, passed 1-8-1990)
WATER WELLS
§ 51.30 FINDING.
   All the recitals listed in Ord. 0211-2 are hereby found to be true and
correct and are hereby approved and incorporated into the body of this
subchapter as if copied in their entirety.
(Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 51.31 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted to further enhance the city’s protection against
depletion and contamination of its public water supply and shall hereinafter be
construed and interpreted to accomplish that health, safety and public welfare
goal.
(Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 51.32 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE WATER WELL. Any hand-dug or bore hole water well more than ten feet
in depth other than a water well owned by a retail public utility as defined in
Tex. Water Code, § 13.002.
(Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 51.33 DOMESTIC WATER WELLS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as permitted by this subchapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to dig, drill or to have dug, or drilled, a water well
to procure domestic water for consumption by themselves or others or for
irrigation within the city limits or extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city
after the effective date of this subchapter.
   (B)   Existing wells. Any person owning property upon which there exists an
already existing domestic water well, shall at no time connect any piping from
that well to piping which is connected to the city’s municipal water system.
   (C)   Exceptions. After receipt of an application for a water well drilling
permit within the city limits of the city, or within the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city, the city shall, within 30 days after the receipt of
the permit application and fee, grant or deny the permit based on the following
criteria:
      (1)   The application for the permit was timely and properly completed
and submitted with the proper fee paid;
      (2)   After review of the application and available hydrology data from
available sources such as the Texas Commission of Environmental Quality (TCEQ)
and the local groundwater conservation district, the City Engineer and city
staff conclude that the proposed water well poses no immediate threat to the
health, safety and welfare of the citizens and consumers of the city water
system; and
      (3)   The City Engineer and city staff determine that it is economically
and/or physically impractical for the city to provide water to the person or
property to be served by the proposed water well due to the location or
proximity of the proposed water well and its service area, the depth of the
well aquifer and the proposed use of the water well such as domestic or
agricultural use.
(Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-2011) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.34 GENERAL.
   No water well may be drilled or installed unless the water supply is
protected in accordance with Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ)
rules and regulations for public water systems (TCEQ Rules) and this
subchapter, as they exist and as they may be amended.
(Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-2011) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.35 PERMIT AND PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   A city issued permit is required prior to the drilling and
installation of water wells within the territorial limits of the city or its
extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (B)   No permit or application fee shall be required for the permit to
administer and inspect the installation of water wells within the territorial
limits of the city or its extraterritorial jurisdiction.
   (C)   Every application for a permit of the drilling, construction, repair
and correction, abandonment or plugging of a well shall state: the name and
address of the owner thereof; the purpose for which the permit is desired; the
location of the well or the proposed well; its approximate depth; and if for a
permit for the drilling or construction or repair and correction of a water
well, the estimate amount of water to be pumped, or which is pumped daily,
monthly or annually, and the use or uses for which the water will be or is
required; if for a permit for the drilling or construction or repair and
correction of a water well, the proposed method of drilling or construction, or
the proposed method of repair and correction, and kind of equipment to be used,
and in all cases, the name of the contractors, and license number issued by the
Texas Water Well Drillers Board, if done through a contractor, whom the owner
desires to drill or construct, repair and correct, or do the work pursuant to
an abandonment of a well in compliance to this subchapter.
(Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 51.36 INSPECTIONS.
   The city shall reserve the right to enter upon the property upon which a
private domestic well exists and make such examination and investigations as to
conditions and sanitation as may be deemed reasonable and necessary by the city
to ensure and protect the public health of city municipal water consumers by
the control of actual and for potential cross-connections.
(Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 51.37 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR WORK ON WELLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to drill or otherwise construct, repair,
correct, abandon or plug a well or to engage upon such work, within the limits
of the area defined in §
51.33, or to employ anyone else to engage in such work, without first applying
for and securing a permit from the city or a duly authorized agent thereof.
Such permit may be granted with the approval of the city’s authorized agent to
any person who files with the city the application hereinafter required, and
complies with all other provisions of the subchapter applicable to him or her.
No permits will be issued for wells to be drilled into the Trinity Aquifer,
except for public water supply use, and owned by the city.
(Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-2011) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.38 LICENSING REQUIRED.
   Wells may only be drilled and installed by licensed water well drillers and
water well pump installers as provided by the Texas Department of Licensing and
Regulation, as those rules and regulations exist and as they may be amended.
(Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-2011)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the terms of §§
51.30 through
51.38 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be guilty of an offense
relating to the preservation of public health or to the fire safety of a
building or other structure and shall be subject to a fine or penalty not to
exceed $2,000. Furthermore, the city shall be permitted to seek injunctive
relief to prohibit continued use of any cross-connected well, or to stop the
use of any newly dug well, or to stop continued digging of such a well, and to
require mandatory capping and sealing of any well dug in violation of the terms
of §§
51.30 through
51.38.
(Ord. passed 2- -1963; Ord. 12-80, passed 11-3-1980; Ord. 0211-2, passed 2-21-
2011)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER
Section
Cross-Connection Control and Prevention
   
52.01   Cross-connection standards
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   Right-of-way encroachment
   
52.04   Multiple connections
   
52.05   Protection required; installation
   
52.06   Testing of assemblies
   
52.07   Thermal expansion
   
52.08   Pressure loss
   
52.09   Residential service connections
   
52.10   Rental properties
   
52.11   Customer service inspection
   
52.12   Installation guidelines and requirements for backflow prevention
assemblies
   
52.13   Air gap separation
   
52.14   Fire suppression systems
   
52.15   Fire hydrant protection
   
52.16   Responsibilities of property owner
   
52.17   Backflow prevention assembly tester certification; registration
required
   
52.18   Fees
   
52.19   Compliance for lawn irrigation
   
52.20   Mobile units
   
52.21   Enforcement
   
52.22   Out-of-municipality water services
Grease Interceptors
   
52.35   Installation
   
52.36   Sizing
   
52.37   Service and maintenance
   
52.38   Right of entry
   
52.39   Suspension of permit
   
52.40   Changes in condition
   
52.41   Violations
   
52.42   Effective date
Introduction of Pollutants into City Sewage Treatment Plant
   
52.55   Specified pollutants prohibited
 
   
52.99   Penalty
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL AND PREVENTION
§ 52.01 CROSS-CONNECTION STANDARDS.
   Every source of contamination or possible contamination from contaminants
which originates from or is located at a residential or commercial
establishment, which is connected to any public water supply or which provides
water to the public, shall be equipped with the protection required under the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. If a word
or term used in this subchapter is not contained in the following list, its
definition, or other technical terms used, shall have the meanings or
definitions listed in the most recent adopted edition of the City Plumbing Code
and/or Manual of Cross-Connection Control published by the Foundation for
Cross-Connection Control and Hydraulic Research, University of Southern
California.
   AIR GAP. A physical separation between free flowing discharge end of a
potable water supply piping and/or appurtenance and an open or non-pressure
receiving vessel, plumbing fixture or other device. An APPROVED AIR-GAP
SEPARATION shall be at least twice the diameter of the supply pipe measured
vertically above the overflow rim of the vessel, plumbing fixture or other
device, in no case less than one inch.
   ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE or ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM
BREAKER or AVB. A device used to prevent backsiphonage in non-health hazard
conditions. This device cannot be tested and cannot prevent backpressure
backflow.
   AUXILIARY SUPPLY. Any water source or system other than the public water
system, that may be available in the building or on the property, including
ground water or surface waters used for industrial, irrigation or any other
purpose.
   BACKFLOW. Flow in the direction opposite to the normal flow or the
introduction of any foreign liquids, gases or substances into the water system
of the city’s water.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or ASSEMBLY. An assembly to counteract
backpressure or prevent backsiphonage.
   BACKPRESSURE. Any elevation of pressure in the downstream piping system (by
any means) above the supply pressure at the point of consideration which would
cause, or tend to cause, a reversal of the normal direction of flow and the
introduction of fluids, mixtures or substances from any source other than the
intended source.
   BACKSIPHONAGE. The flow of water or other liquids, mixture or substances
into the distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source
other than its intended source caused by a sudden reduction of pressure in the
potable water supply system.
   BORESIGHT or BORESIGHT TO DAYLIGHT. Providing adequate drainage for backflow
prevention assemblies installed in vaults through the use of an unobstructed
drainpipe.
   CITY or THE CITY. The City of Lindsay through the Mayor or any
representative, inspector or employee designated by the Mayor.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Property or location which is used primarily for
manufacture, production, storage, wholesaling or retailing of services which is
or may be placed in the flow of commerce or any property or location which is
used primarily for the provision of any service.
   COMMISSION. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality (TCEQ) or its
successor agency.
   CONTAMINANTS. Any foreign material, solid or liquid, not common to the
potable water supply, which makes the water unfit or undesirable for human or
animal consumption.
   CONTAMINATION. The admission of contaminants into the potable water supply
system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any connection, physical or otherwise, between a potable
water supply system and any plumbing fixture or any tank, receptacle, equipment
or device, through which it is possible for any non-potable, used, unclean,
polluted and contaminated water, or other substances, to enter into any part of
such potable water system under any condition or set of conditions.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE INSPECTION. The low or high hazard classification that
shall be attached to all actual or potential cross-connection hazards and/or
exceed the lead action level in solder or flux, pipe or pipe fittings.
   DEGREE OF HAZARD. The low or high hazard classification that shall be
attached to all actual or potential cross-connection hazards as follows.
      (1)   HEALTH HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of contamination of a
physical or toxic nature to the public potable water system or the consumer’s
potable water system that would be a danger to health.
      (2)   HIGH HAZARD. The classification assigned to an actual or potential
cross-connection that potentially could allow a substance that may cause
illness or death to backflow into the potable water supply.
      (3)   LOW HAZARD. The classification assigned to an actual or potential
cross-connection that potentially could allow a substance that may be
objectionable but not hazardous to one’s health to backflow into the potable
water supply.
      (4)   POLLUTION HAZARD. An actual or potential threat to the physical
properties of the water system or the potability of the public or the
consumer’s potable water system, but which would not constitute a health or
system hazard, as defined. Maximum degree of intensity of pollution, by which
the potable water system could be degraded under this definition, would cause a
nuisance or be aesthetically objectionable or could cause damage to the system
or its appurtenances.
      (5)   SYSTEM HAZARD. An actual or potential threat of severe danger to
the physical properties of the public or consumer’s potable water supply or of
a pollution or contamination that would have a detrimental effect on the
quality of the potable water in the system.
   DIRECTOR. The Mayor, the designated Water Operations Superintendent or their
designee who is vested with the authority and responsibility for the
implementation of an effective cross-connection control program and for the
enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   DOUBLE CHECK DETECTOR BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or DOUBLE CHECK DETECTOR
or DCDA. An assembly composed of a line-size approved double check assembly
with a bypass containing a specific water meter and an approved double check
valve assembly. The meter shall register accurately for very low rates of flow.
   FIRELINE TESTER. A tester who is employed by a state approved fireline
contractor and is qualified to test backflow prevention assemblies on firelines
only.
   GENERAL TESTER. A tester who is qualified to test backflow prevention
assemblies on any domestic, commercial, industrial or irrigation service except
firelines.
   MOBILE UNIT. Any operation that may have the potential to introduce
contaminants into a potable water system from a mobile source. These include,
but are not limited to, carpet-cleaning vehicles, water-hauling vehicles,
street-cleaning vehicles, liquid-waste vehicles, power-wash operations and
pest-control vehicles.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USE. Water used by any person other than a residential
customer of the water supply and include all uses not specifically included in
“residential uses” as defined in the city zoning ordinance.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, associations, corporations, firms,
clubs, trustees, receivers, and bodies politic and corporate.
   POINT-OF-USE ISOLATION. The appropriate backflow prevention within the
consumer’s water system at the point at which the actual or potential cross-
connection exists.
   POTABLE WATER SUPPLY. Any water supply intended or used for human
consumption or other domestic use.
   PREMISES. Any piece of property to which is provided, including all
improvements, mobile structures and structures located on it.
   PREMISES ISOLATION. The appropriate backflow prevention at the service
connection between the public water system and the water user.
   PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or PRESSURE VACUUM
BREAKER or PVB. An assembly which provides protection against backsiphonage,
but does not provide adequate protection against back pressure backflow. The
ASSEMBLY is a combination of a single check valve with an AVB and can be used
with downstream resilient seated shutoff valves. In addition, the ASSEMBLY has
suction and discharge gate valves and resilient seated test cocks, which allow
the full testing of the assembly.
   PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM or SYSTEMS. Any public or privately owned water system
which supplies water for domestic use in the process of producing, treating,
storing or conveying water for public consumption.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY or REDUCED PRESSURE
PRINCIPLE ASSEMBLY or RP. An assembly containing two independently acting
approved check valves together with a hydraulically-operated, mechanically
independent pressure differential relief valve located between the check valves
and at the same time below the first check valve. The ASSEMBLY shall include
properly located resilient seated test cocks and a tightly closing resilient
seated shutoff valve at the end of the assembly.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE DETECTOR BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY or REDUCED
PRESSURE DETECTOR or RPDA. An assembly composed of a line-size approved reduced
pressure principle assembly with a bypass containing a specific water meter and
an approved reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assembly. The meter
shall register accurately for very low rates of flow.
   REPRESENTATIVE OF THE WATER SYSTEM. A person designated by the City of
Lindsay to perform cross-connection control duties that shall include, but are
not limited to, cross-connection inspections and water use surveys.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. Water used by any residential customer of the water supply
and include single-family dwellings, duplexes, multiplex housing and apartments
where individual units are each on a separate meter; or, in cases where two or
more units are served by one meter, the units are full-time dwellings.
   SERVICES CONNECTION. The point of delivery which the water purveyor loses
control of the water.
   SPILL-RESISTANT PRESSURE VACUUM BREAKER or SVB. An assembly containing an
independently operating, internally loaded check valve and independently
operating, loaded air inlet valve located on the discharge side of the check
valve. This assembly is to be equipped with a properly located resilient seated
test cock and tightly closing resilient seated shutoff valves attached at each
end of the assembly.
   TESTER. A person that is a certified backflow prevention assembly technician
approved by and registered with the city and the TCEQ.
   THERMAL EXPANSION. Heated water that does not have the space to expand.
   TCEQ. The Texas Commission on Environmental Quality.
   USED WATER. Water supplied by a public water system to a water user’s system
after it has passed through the service connection.
   WATER USE SURVEY. A survey conducted or caused to be conducted by the local
authority designed to identify any possible sources of contamination to the
potable water supply.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.03 RIGHT-OF-WAY ENCROACHMENT.
   No person shall install or maintain a backflow prevention assembly upon or
within any city right-of-way except as provided for in this section.
   (A)   A backflow prevention assembly required by the city may be installed
upon or within the city right-of-way only if the owner proves to the city that
there is no other feasible location for installing the assembly, installing it
in the right-of-way will not interfere with traffic or utilities, and the owner
obtains a permit from the city. The city retains the right to approve the
location, height, depth, enclosure and other requisites of the assembly prior
to installation.
   (B)   All permits and inspections required by the city code to perform work
in the right-of-way shall be obtained.
   (C)   The assembly shall be installed below or flush with the surrounding
grade except when it is not practicable to install it in this manner. Any
assembly or portion of an assembly, which extends aboveground, shall be located
no closer than 18 inches to the face of the curb.
   (D)   The city shall not be liable for any damage done to or caused by an
assembly installed in the right-of-way.
   (E)   A property owner shall, at the request of the city and at the owner’s
expense, relocate a backflow prevention assembly which encroaches upon any city
right-of-way when such relocation is necessary for street or utility
construction repairs for purposes of public safety.
   (F)   A person commits an offense if he or she fails to relocate a backflow
prevention assembly located in or upon any city right-of-way after receiving a
written order from the city.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 MULTIPLE CONNECTIONS.
   Any premises requiring multiple service connections for adequacy of supply
and/or fire protection will be required to install a backflow assembly on each
of the additional service lines to the premises. The type of assembly will be
determined by the degree of hazard that could occur in the event of an
interconnect between any of the buildings on the premises.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.05 PROTECTION REQUIRED; INSTALLATION.
   (A)   The backflow prevention assembly protection which is required under
this subchapter shall be any of the duly nationally recognized and authorized
backflow prevention assemblies listed in a state approved Plumbing Code, or as
determined by the city. Prior to installation, the city must have approved each
backflow prevention assembly. Failure to obtain such approval prior to
installation of the backflow prevention assembly may result in the backflow
prevention assembly failing to meet final approval by the city. The city shall
determine the type and location of backflow assembly to be installed within the
area served by the city. The assembly will be required in each of the following
circumstances, but is in no way limited to the following circumstances:
      (1)   The nature and extent of any activity on the premises, or the
materials used in connection with any activity on the premises, or materials
stored on the premises, could contaminate or pollute the potable water supply;
      (2)   Premises having any one or more cross-connections shall require an
atmospheric vacuum breaker device (AVB) that protects connections;
      (3)   Internal cross-connections are present that are not correctable;
      (4)   Intricate plumbing arrangements that are present which make it
impractical to ascertain whether cross-connections exist;
      (5)   There is unduly restricted entry so that inspections for cross-
connections cannot be made with sufficient frequency to assure that cross-
connections do not exist;
      (6)   Installation of an approved backflow prevention assembly is deemed
to be necessary to accomplish the purpose of these regulations in the judgment
of the city;
      (7)   An appropriate cross-connection survey report form has not been
filed with the Public Works/Water Utilities Department of the city upon request
of the city;
      (8)   A fire suppression system that is connected to the city’s water
system;
      (9)   All new construction, if deemed necessary, in the customer service
inspection. The type of assembly required will be determined by the degree of
hazard;
      (10)   When a building is constructed on commercial premises, and the end
use of such a building is not determined or could change, a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly may be installed at the service
connection that supplies water for public domestic use;
      (11)   Any used water return system;
      (12)   In the event a point-of-use assembly has not had the testing or
repair done as required by this subchapter, a premises isolation assembly will
be required;
      (13)   If it is determined that additions or alterations have been made
to the plumbing system without obtaining proper permits, premises isolation may
be required;
      (14)   All multi-story buildings or any building with a booster pump or
elevated storage tank; and
      (15)   Retrofitting will be required on all high hazard connections and
wherever else the city deems necessary to retrofit.
   (B)   All backflow prevention assemblies installed after the effective date
of this subchapter shall be installed in a manner designed to facilitate ease
of inspection by the city. Any currently installed backflow prevention
assemblies which are located in inaccessible locations, or where the tester is
subject to physical danger, shall be relocated to approved locations following
current national guideline standards.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.06 TESTING OF ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be inspected and tested or
caused to be inspected and tested by the city in each of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Immediately after installation;
      (2)   Whenever the assembly is moved;
      (3)   A minimum of once a year; and
      (4)   Premises that have been vacated and unoccupied for one year prior
to re-occupancy.
   (B)   All assembly testing shall be performed by a state certified backflow
prevention assembly tester approved by the city.
   (C)   Duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification are entitled to enter any public or private property at any
reasonable time for the purpose of enforcing this subchapter. Persons and
occupants of premises which are provided water service by the city, either
directly or indirectly, shall allow the city or its representatives ready
access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, testing, records, examination or in the performance of any of their
duties. Where persons or occupants of the premises have security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
their premises, the persons and occupants of the premises shall make the
necessary arrangements with their security guards so that upon presentation of
suitable identification, personnel from the city will be permitted to enter,
without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
   (D)   The city is not liable for damage to a backflow prevention assembly
which may occur during testing.
   (E)   A water use survey may be conducted at any establishment located in
the city or the city’s CCN which is served by a public water supply or which
provides water to the public. Upon determination that the establishment falls
under the provisions of this subchapter and requires a backflow prevention
assembly, a notice to abate the condition or to install the proper backflow
prevention assembly shall be issued.
   (F)   It is the responsibility of the person who owns or controls property
to have all assemblies tested in accordance with this subchapter. Assemblies
may be tested more frequently if the city deems necessary.
   (G)   All results from assembly testing by a certified backflow prevention
assembly tester shall be placed on a form that is purchased by the tester from
the city for a fee to be established by the City Council.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.07 THERMAL EXPANSION.
   It is the responsibility of any person who owns or controls property to
eliminate the possibility of thermal expansion, if a closed system has been
created by the installation of a backflow assembly.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.08 PRESSURE LOSS.
   Any reduction in water pressure caused by the installation of a backflow
assembly is not the responsibility of the city.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.09 RESIDENTIAL SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   Any person who owns or controls any residential property which has been
determined to have an actual or potential cross-connection will be required to
eliminate the actual or potential cross-connection or have an approved backflow
assembly installed in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.10 RENTAL PROPERTIES.
   Any person who owns or controls property is responsible for the
installation, testing and repair of all backflow assemblies on his or her
property.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.11 CUSTOMER SERVICE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Pursuant to TCEQ water system regulations, a customer service
inspection for cross-connection control shall be completed by the city prior to
providing continuous water service in each of the following circumstances:
      (1)   Water service to a newly constructed facility or previously non-
existing premises;
      (2)   After any material improvement to a building(s) or premises;
      (3)   Any correction or addition to the plumbing of any facility or
premises; and
      (4)   The city deems it necessary.
   (B)   Permanent water service shall not be supplied to a new construction
facility(s) until after the customer service inspection is completed.
   (C)   Temporary water service which poses a potential cross-connection
threat to the potable water supply shall be protected by an approved backflow
prevention assembly.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.12 INSTALLATION GUIDELINES AND REQUIREMENTS FOR BACKFLOW PREVENTION
ASSEMBLIES.
   (A)   General. To ensure proper operation and accessibility of all backflow
prevention assemblies, the following national guideline requirements shall
apply to the installation of these assemblies.
      (1)   Backflow prevention assemblies shall be installed in accordance
with the current TCEQ rule and these regulations. The assembly installer must
obtain the required plumbing permits and have installation inspected by the
city.
      (2)   At facilities which require a backflow prevention assembly to be
installed at the point of delivery of the water supply, such installation of an
assembly must be before any branch in the line and on private property located
just inside the boundary between the city right-of-way and the landowner’s
property. The city may specify other areas for installation of the assembly.
Assemblies that must be installed that are located on city rights-of-way are
the responsibilities of the business or entity that the water line is serving.
      (3)   The assembly must be protected from freezing and other severe
weather conditions.
      (4)   All backflow prevention assemblies shall be of a type and model
approved by the city.
      (5)   All vertical installations of backflow assemblies must have prior
approval by the city.
      (6)   Assemblies that are larger than four inches and installed more than
five feet above floor level must have a suitable platform for use by testing
and maintenance personnel.
      (7)   Bypass lines are prohibited. Pipe fittings, which could be used for
connecting a bypass line, must not be installed.
      (8)   Premises where an uninterrupted water supply is critical should be
provided with two assemblies installed parallel. They should be sized in such a
manner that either assembly will provide the maximum flow required.
      (9)   Lines should be thoroughly flushed prior to installation. A
strainer with blowout tapping may be required ahead of the assembly.
      (10)   All facilities that require continuous, uninterrupted water
service and are required to have a backflow assembly must make provisions for
the parallel installation of assemblies of the same type so that testing,
repair and maintenance can be performed.
      (11)   The property owner assumes all responsibility for any damages
resulting from installation operation, and/or maintenance of a backflow
assembly. The owner shall be responsible for keeping all backflow prevention
assembly vaults reasonably free of debris and silt.
      (12)   Upon completion of installation, the city shall be notified and
all assemblies must be inspected and tested. All assemblies must be registered
with the city and shall provide the date of installation, manufacturer, model,
type, size, serial number of the backflow assembly and initial test report.
   (B)   Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies (RPs).
Reduced pressure principle backflow prevention assemblies (RPs) may be utilized
at premises where a substance is handled that would be hazardous to health if
introduced into the potable water system. The RP is normally used in locations
where an air gap is impractical. The RP shall be effective against both
backsiphonage and backpressure.
      (1)   RPs must be sized to provide an adequate supply of water and
pressure for the premises being served. Flow characteristics are not standard.
Consult manufacturer’s specifications for specific performance data.
      (2)   The assembly must be readily accessible for testing and maintenance
and must be located in an area where water damage to building or furnishing
would not occur from relief valve discharge. The property owner assumes a
responsibility for any damage caused by water discharge from an RP assembly. An
approved air gap shall be located at the relief valve orifice of RP assemblies.
      (3)   No part of a reduced pressure principle backflow prevention
assembly shall be submerged in water or installed in a location subject to
flooding. RPs are typically installed above grade in well-drained areas, but
may be installed below grade (ground level) if a boresight drain to daylight is
provided. The drain shall be of adequate capacity to carry the full rated flow
of the assembly and shall be screened on both ends.
      (4)   Enclosures shall be designed for ready access and sized to allow
for the minimum clearances established below. Removable protective enclosures
are typically installed on the smaller assemblies. Daylight drain ports must be
provided to accommodate full pressure discharge from the assembly.
      (5)   Assemblies two inches smaller shall have at least six-inch
clearance on both sides and on top of the assembly and 12 inches below and
behind the assembly. All assemblies larger than two inches shall have a minimum
of 12 inches on the backside, 24 inches on the test cock side, and the relief
valve opening shall be at least 12 inches plus nominal size of assembly above
the floor or highest possible water level. Headroom of six feet, eight inches
is required in vaults without a fully removable top. A minimum access opening
of 36 inches is required on all vault lids.
      (6)   All RP assemblies must be tested in accordance with this
subchapter. Tests are the responsibility of the assembly owner. The owner must
notify the city upon installation of any backflow prevention assembly.
      (7)   Variances from these specifications will be evaluated on a case-by-
case basis. Any deviations must have the prior written approval of the city.
   (C)   Reduced pressure principle detector backflow prevention assemblies
(RPDA). Reduced pressure principle detector backflow prevention assemblies
(RPDA) may be utilized in all installations requiring a reduced pressure
principle backflow prevention assembly detector metering.
      (1)   RPDAs shall comply with installation requirements applicable for
reduced pressure principle backflow assemblies (RP).
      (2)   The line size RP assembly and the bypass RP assembly must each be
tested. A separate test report for each assembly must be completed by the
certified tester.
   (D)   Double check valve backflow prevention assemblies (DC). Double check
valve backflow prevention assemblies (DC) may be utilized at premises where a
substance is handled that would be objectionable but not hazardous to health if
introduced into the potable water system.
      (1)   DCs must be sized to provide an adequate supply of water and
pressure for premises being served. Consult manufacturer’s specifications for
specific performance data.
      (2)   Premises where an uninterrupted water supply is critical should be
provided with two assemblies installed in parallel. Assemblies should be sized
in such a manner that either assembly will provide the minimum water
requirements while the two together will provide the maximum flow required.
      (3)   The assembly shall be readily accessible with adequate room for
testing and maintenance. DCs may be installed below grade, providing all test
cocks are fitted with brass pipe plugs. All vaults shall be well-drained,
constructed of suitable materials, and sized to allow for the minimum
clearances established below.
      (4)   Assemblies two inches and smaller shall have at least a six-inch
clearance below and on both sides of the assembly, and if located in a vault,
the bottom of the assembly shall be not more than 24 inches below grade. All
assemblies larger than two inches shall have a minimum clearance of 12 inches
on the backside, 24 inches on the test cock side, and 12 inches below the
assembly. Headroom of six feet, zero inches is required in vaults without a
fully removable top. A minimum access opening of 36 inches is required on all
vault lids. “Y” pattern double check valve assemblies shall be installed so
that the checks are horizontal and test cocks face upward. These clearance
standards apply to all assemblies installed in vaults, enclosures and meter
boxes.
      (5)   Vertical installations of DCs are allowed only on sizes up to and
including four inches that meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Internally spring-loaded check valves;
         (b)   Flow is upward through assembly;
         (c)   Manufacturer states their assembly can be used in a vertical
position; and
         (d)   Approved by city.
      (6)   All DCs must be tested in accordance with this subchapter. Tests
are the responsibility of the assembly owner. The owner must notify the city
upon installation of any backflow prevention assembly.
      (7)   Variances from these specifications will be evaluated on a case-by-
case basis. Any deviations must have prior written approval of the city.
   (E)   Double check detector backflow prevention assemblies (DCDA). Double
check detector backflow prevention assemblies (DCDA) may be utilized in all
installations requiring a double check valve assembly and detector metering.
      (1)   DCDAs shall comply with the installation requirements applicable
for double check valve assemblies (DCs).
      (2)   The line-size DC assembly and the bypass DC assembly must each be
tested. A separate test report for each assembly must be completed by the
certified tester.
   (F)   Pressure vacuum breaker backflow prevention assemblies (PVB). Pressure
vacuum breaker backflow prevention assemblies (PVB) may be utilized at point-
of-use protection only and where a substance is handled that would be
objectionable but not hazardous to health if introduced into the potable water
system. PVBs protect against backsiphonage only and shall not be installed
where there is potential for backpressure.
      (1)   Assembly shall be installed a minimum of 12 inches above highest
downstream piping.
      (2)   PVBs shall not be installed in an area subject to flooding or where
damage would occur from water discharge.
      (3)   The assembly shall be readily accessible for testing and
maintenance, with a minimum clearance of 12 inches all around the assembly.
      (4)   All PVBs must be tested in compliance with this section. Tests are
the responsibility of the assembly owner. The owner must notify the city upon
installation of any backflow prevention assembly.
      (5)   Variances from these specifications will be evaluated on a case-by-
case basis. Any deviations must have prior written approval of the city.
   (G)   Spill resistant pressure vacuum breaker backflow prevention assemblies
(SVB).
      (1)   Spill resistant pressure vacuum breaker backflow prevention
assemblies (SVB) may be utilized in all installations requiring a pressure
vacuum breaker.
      (2)   SVBs shall comply with the installation requirements applicable for
pressure vacuum, breaker backflow prevention assemblies.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.13 AIR GAP SEPARATION.
   Air gaps provide maximum protection from backflow hazards and should be
utilized at all locations where “high” hazardous substances are at risk of
entering potable water system.
   (A)   An air gap separation shall be at least twice the diameter of the
supply pipeline measured vertically above the top rim of the receiving vessel
and in no case less than one inch. If splashing is a problem, tubular screens
may be attached or the supply line may be cut at a 45 degree angle. The air gap
distance is measured from the bottom of the angle. Hoses are not allowed.
   (B)   Air gap separations shall not be altered in any way without prior
approval from the city and must be available for inspection at all reasonable
times.
   (C)   Side walls, ribs or similar obstructions do not affect air gaps when
spaced from the inside edge of the spout opening a distance greater than three
times the diameter of the effective opening for a single, or a distance greater
than four times the effective opening for two intersecting walls.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.14 FIRE SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All new installations of fire suppression systems, which utilize the
city’s potable water supply, shall have installed an approved backflow
prevention device according to the degree of hazard.
   (B)   An approved double check detector backflow prevention assembly (DCDA)
or reduced pressure detector assemblies (RPDA) shall be the minimum protection
for fire sprinkler systems. Piping material that is not approved for potable
water use and/or that does not provide for periodic flow-through during each
24-hour period, cannot be used unless a variance has been issued in writing
from the city. An RPDA must be installed if any solution other than the potable
water can be introduced into the sprinkler system.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of all property owners and persons in
charge of any premises to abide by the conditions of this subchapter. In the
event of any changes to the plumbing system, it is the responsibility of the
property owners to notify the city. All costs associated with this section and
the purchase, installation, testing and repair of a DCDA or RPDA device is the
responsibility of the property owner and persons in charge of any premises.
      (2)   Upon the approved installation of the DCDA or RPDA device, a cross-
connection test report completed by a licensed fireline tester must be sent to
the attention of the city and include the information required by this
subchapter.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.15 FIRE HYDRANT PROTECTION.
   (A)   An approved double check device backflow prevention assembly (DCD) or
reduced pressure detector assemblies (RPDA) shall be the minimum protection for
fire hydrant water meters which are being used for a temporary water supply
during any construction or other uses which would pose a potential hazard to
the public water supply.
   (B)   An RPDA must be installed if any solution other than the potable water
can be introduced into the sprinkler system.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of all persons engaging in the use and
rental of a fire hydrant water meter to abide by the conditions of this
subchapter. All fire hydrant water meter rentals shall meet the current
requirements.
      (2)   Only the city fire hydrant water meters with approved backflow
prevention assemblies are allowed to be connected to the city system.
      (3)   A refundable deposit is required to ensure the return of all water
meter and backflow assemblies to the city. Failure to return the assemblies can
result in the forfeiture of deposit and/or enforcement action being taken
against the responsible party, as allowed for in the penalty section of this
subchapter. (See § 52.18.)
      (4)   All non-approved fire hydrant meters which are found to be in use
in the city will be confiscated and enforcement action taken against the
responsible party, as allowed for in the enforcement section of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   It is the responsibility of all property owners and/or persons in
charge of any premises to abide by the conditions of this section and to comply
with the following:
      (1)   Payment of all costs associated with this subchapter and the
purchase, installation, testing and repair of backflow assemblies;
      (2)   Install and maintain all backflow prevention assemblies in
accordance with this section and acceptable industry practice;
      (3)   All commercial establishments shall cause to have backflow
prevention assemblies on their premises tested annually by a certified cross-
connection tester who is registered with the city;
      (4)   Maintain all backflow prevention assemblies in proper working order
at all times, including repair as required;
      (5)   Maintain all backflow prevention assemblies in a manner, which
allows them to be tested by a method that has been approved by the city; and
      (6)   All records related to backflow prevention assembly installation,
testing and repair shall be maintained on the premises for a minimum of three
years.
   (B)   Certified backflow prevention assembly tester shall comply with the
following:
      (1)   Annually register with the city and pay the required fee;
      (2)   Maintain testing equipment in proper working condition/calibration;
      (3)   Maintain the design or operation characteristics of an assembly;
      (4)   Ensure that devices are tested according to accepted industry
practice and TCEQ regulations;
      (5)   Enter required testing data, including test gauge serial numbers,
on cross-connection test forms obtained from the city;
      (6)   Report test results to the city within 30 days of the testing;
      (7)   Provide a copy of the completed test report to the property owners
and/or persons in charge of any premises; and
      (8)   Maintain testing and/or repair records for a minimum of three
years.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.17 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTER CERTIFICATION; REGISTRATION
REQUIRED.
   Only approved TCEQ licensed backflow prevention assembly testers can test
backflow prevention assemblies in the city or the city’s CCN. Testers must
register annually with the city, provide proof of TCEQ certification and
provide proof that testing equipment is able to maintain a calibration of plus
or minus 0.2 PSID accuracy and pay an annual, nonrefundable, tester
registration fee.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.18 FEES.
   (A)   There shall be a testing fee charged by the tester for each separate
backflow prevention assembly on which a test is performed. This fee applies to,
but is not limited to, all newly installed backflow devices, which the city may
choose to randomly test. If upon inspection or testing of a newly installed
backflow prevention assembly it is deemed not be working properly, it is the
responsibility of the property owners and/or persons in charge of any premises
to make necessary repairs. A retest fee will be assessed by the tester for each
retest.
   (B)   Any fees provided for in this subchapter shall be established by
separate ordinance or resolution of the City Council
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005)
§ 52.19 COMPLIANCE FOR LAWN IRRIGATION.
   (A)   For all lawn irrigation system installations a permit shall be
required. Such a permit shall be issued by the Building Inspection Department.
Installation requirements must comply with the current City Plumbing Code and/
or guidelines for the appropriate device found in this subchapter.
Interconnections of the potable water supply with an alternate water source is
prohibited unless appropriate backflow prevention is installed. High hazard
backflow protection devices must be installed if any mechanical injection
stations are used with the irrigation system.
   (B)   Installation of the “appropriate device” found in this subchapter and
related appurtenances, must be located a minimum distance of three feet from
each side or corner of the city’s water meter box (i.e., services connection).
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 1113-1, passed 11-11-2013)
§ 52.20 MOBILE UNITS.
   (A)   The connection of a mobile unit to any potable water system is
prohibited unless such a connection is protected by an air gap or an approved
backflow prevention assembly.
   (B)   Prior to approval, an annual device testing of any backflow prevention
assembly must be received from the city before connecting to any potable water
system.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Director of Public Works or
his or her designee.
   (B)   The city shall inspect and initially test, or cause to be tested, all
backflow prevention assemblies installed pursuant to the requirements of this
section. For new facilities, permanent water service shall not be provided
until all backflow prevention assemblies have been tested and are operational.
Except in cases where the testing of backflow prevention assemblies must be
delayed until the installation of internal production or auxiliary equipment,
the city shall not approve a certificate of occupancy until all backflow
prevention assemblies have been tested and are operational. The city shall not
be liable for damage caused to any backflow prevention assembly as a result of
the inspection or testing.
   (C)   Violations.
      (1)   A person commits an offense if there is failure to maintain
backflow prevention assemblies in compliance with this subchapter.
      (2)   A person commits an offense if there is failure to comply with a
repair order issued by the city.
      (3)   A person commits an offense if backflow from premises owned,
operated or managed by the person enters the public water supply system.
      (4)   A person commits an offense if there is a failure to pay any fees
required by this subchapter.
      (5)   A person commits an offense by violating any section of this
subchapter.
      (6)   A person commits an offense if discontinued or disconnected water
service to premises under this section is reinstated except as directed by the
city.
      (7)   A person in charge of any facility commits an offense by allowing
an unregistered tester to perform testing work at his or her establishment.
      (8)   A person commits an offense by testing backflow prevention assembly
within the city without being registered with the city.
      (9)   A person commits an offense by testing backflow prevention assembly
within the city without being certified by TCEQ.
   (D)   A certified testers’ registration may be reviewed and revoked by the
city if it is determined that the tester:
      (1)   Has falsely, incompletely or inaccurately reported assembly
reports;
      (2)   Has used inaccurate gauges;
      (3)   Has used improper testing procedures; or
      (4)   Has created a threat to public health or environment.
(Ord. 0805-4, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.22 OUT-OF-MUNICIPALITY WATER SERVICES.
   If any person, corporation, firm or business entity located outside the
municipal limits desires municipal water service and pays all expenses incurred
in extending the water mains and secures all necessary easements, so that the
municipality incurs no expense in such connection, and the municipality elects
to provide such water service to such patron, and provided all mains and lines
installed shall meet the requirements and approval of the Director of Public
Works, then such patron shall be furnished water at a rate of one and one-half
times the in-municipality rate.
(Ord. 0910-9, passed 9-27-2010)
GREASE INTERCEPTORS
§ 52.35 INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Grease traps (interceptors) for the removal of oil, grease, fats,
blood and other wastes shall be installed and properly used in all cafés,
restaurants, bars, private clubs, cafeterias, grocery markets, taverns,
lunchrooms, cocktail lounges, saloons, soda fountains, bakeries, food
commissaries, food manufacturing, public and parochial schools and other places
that may discharge grease, fats, oils, blood or other wastes to the sewer.
   (B)   Installation of grease traps will be required for all listed
establishments upon the occurrence of the following:
      (1)   Any improvements, renovations, repairs or additions to the kitchen
or plumbing (excluding restrooms) of an existing establishment that exceeds
$2,500 in amount, to include all labor and materials costs;
      (2)   Any construction of a new establishment as listed; and
      (3)   No later than January 1, 2006 for all such establishments.
(Ord. 120303, passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.36 SIZING.
   Grease trap (interceptors) shall be sized using the International Standard
Plumbing Code to determine the maximum flow rate and are required to have at
least two compartments.
(Ord. 120303, passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 SERVICE AND MAINTENANCE.
   The grease traps (interceptors) shall be maintained and serviced on a
regular basis to prevent grease and oil from clogging the city’s sewer lines
and to prevent the food service establishment’s grease trap from being
overloaded. Proof shall be provided to the city within 30 days of service or
maintenance on the establishments grease trap (interceptor). Use of hot water,
chemicals or other agents or devices, unless specifically approved by the city,
for the purpose of causing the oil, grease or similar substance to pass through
the facility provided is prohibited.
(Ord. 120303, passed 12-8-2003; Ord. 0514-1, passed 5-12-2014)
§ 52.38 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Any designated employee or representative of the city shall be permitted to
gain access to such properties as may be necessary for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter. The food service establishment shall
compensate the city for all costs of sampling and laboratory analysis in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter. This cost shall be charged
in addition to the monthly sewer service charge.
(Ord. 120303, passed 12-8-2003)
§ 52.39 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   If the designated employee or representative of the city shall find any
grease traps (interceptors) to be in such a condition as to constitute a
potential hazard to public health, that employee or representative shall notify
the City or County Health Officer who shall suspend the food establishment’s
permit. Such suspension shall exist until such time as the grease trap
(interceptor) has been corrected and approved by the city employee or
representative.
(Ord. 120303, passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.40 CHANGES IN CONDITION.
   The food service establishment shall notify the city of any change in the
conditions of the food service establishment’s operation. The designated city
employee or representative shall determine if the grease trap (interceptor)
must be changed to meet the changed conditions of the food establishment’s
operation.
(Ord. 120303, passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.41 VIOLATIONS.
   Any sewer line stoppage, damage or restriction of flow caused by an illegal
discharge shall be considered a violation of this subchapter and the person or
persons responsible will be held liable. Any operation of a food establishment
not in compliance with this subchapter shall be a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 120303, passed 12-8-2003) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.42 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this subchapter shall be on January 1, 2004.
(Ord. 120303, passed 12-8-2003)
INTRODUCTION OF POLLUTANTS INTO CITY SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT
§ 52.55 SPECIFIED POLLUTANTS PROHIBITED.
   The following pollutants may not be introduced, either directly or
indirectly, into the sewage treatment plant or facility (said plant or facility
is a publicly owned treatment works as defined by state law), to wit:
   (A)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the said plant
or facility including, but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed cup
flashpoint of less than 140°F (60°C) using the test methods specified in 40
C.F.R. § 261.21;
   (B)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to said plant
or facility, but in no case shall there be discharges with pH lower than 5.0
standard units, unless the works are specifically designed to accommodate such
discharges;
   (C)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts which will cause obstruction to
the flow in said plant or facility, resulting in interference;
   (D)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (e.g., BOD),
released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which
will cause interference with plant or facility;
   (E)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the plant or
facility resulting in interference but in no case shall there be heat in such
quantities that the temperature at the plant or facility treatment plant
exceeds 104°F (40°C) unless the Executive Director of the TNRCC, upon request
of the city, approves alternate temperature limits;
   (F)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil or products of mineral oil
origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through;
   (G)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors or
fumes within the plant of facility in a quantity that may cause acute worker
health and safety problems; and
   (H)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the Council of the city.
(Ord. 06-99, passed 6-14-1999) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A person who violates any provision of §§
52.01 through
52.22 is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction is punishable as set forth
in §§
52.01 through
52.22 by a fine not to exceed the sum of $2,000 for each act of violation and
for each day or part of a day during which the violation is committed,
continued or permitted.
      (2)   In addition to proceeding under the authority of §§
52.01 through
52.22, the city is entitled to pursue all other criminal and civil remedies to
which it is entitled under authority of statutes or other ordinances against a
person committing any violation of §§
52.01 through
52.22, including injunction and civil penalties.
   (C)   Any violation of §§
52.35 through
52.42, or any part thereof, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $2,000.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation found to have violated the terms and
provisions of §
52.55 shall be fined the sum of $500, and each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense under §
52.55.
(Ord. 06-99, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 120303, passed 12-8-2003; Ord. 0805-4,
passed 8-8-2005)
CHAPTER 53: DROUGHT
Section
   
53.01   Declaration of policy, purpose and intent
   
53.02   Public involvement
   
53.03   Public education
   
53.04   Coordination with regional water planning groups
   
53.05   Authorization
   
53.06   Application
   
53.07   Definitions
   
53.08   Triggering criteria for initiation and termination of drought
   
53.09   Drought
   
53.10   Water rationing; outside city customer
   
53.11   Enforcement
   
53.12   Variances
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   In order to conserve the available water supply and protect the
integrity of water supply facilities, with particular regard for domestic water
use, sanitation and fire protection, to protect and preserve public health,
welfare and safety, and minimize the adverse impacts of water supply shortage
or other water supply emergency conditions, the city hereby adopts the
following regulations and restrictions on the delivery and consumption of
water.
   (B)   Water uses regulated or prohibited under this Drought Contingency Plan
(“the Plan”) are considered to be non-essential and continuation of such uses
during times of water shortage or other emergency water supply condition are
deemed to constitute a waste of water which subjects the offender(s) to
penalties as defined in §
53.99 of this Plan.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.02 PUBLIC INVOLVEMENT.
   Opportunity for the public to provide input into the preparation of the Plan
was provided by the city by means of a public meeting held in the Council
Chambers on November 6, 2000 at 7:00 p.m. Public notice of this meeting was
provided by a paid advertisement in the Gainesville Daily Register, the
newspaper of general circulation in the county.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.03 PUBLIC EDUCATION.
   The city will periodically provide the public with information about the
Plan, including information about the conditions under which each stage of the
Plan is to be initiated or terminated and the drought response measures to be
implemented in each stage. This information will be provided by means of press
releases to local radio, TV and newspapers.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.04 COORDINATION WITH REGIONAL WATER PLANNING GROUPS.
   The service area of the city is located within the Region C Water Planning
Area and the city has provided a copy of this Plan to the Chairperson of Region
C Regional Water Planning Group.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.05 AUTHORIZATION.
   The Mayor or his or her designee is hereby authorized and directed to
implement the applicable provisions of this Plan upon determination that such
implementation is necessary to protect public health, safety and welfare. The
Mayor or his or her designee shall have the authority to initiate or terminate
drought or other water supply emergency response measures as described in this
Plan.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.06 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this Plan shall apply to all persons, customers and
property utilizing water provided by the city. The terms PERSON and CUSTOMER as
used in the Plan include individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations
and all other legal entities.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AESTHETIC WATER USE. Water use for ornamental or decorative purposes such as
fountains, reflecting pools and water gardens.
   COMMERCIAL AND INSTITUTIONAL WATER USE. Water use which is integral to the
operations of commercial and non-profit establishments and governmental
entities such as retail establishments, hotels and motels, restaurants, and
office buildings.
   CONSERVATION. Those practices, techniques and technologies that reduce the
consumption of water, reduce the loss or waste of water, improve the efficiency
in the use of water or increase the recycling and reuse of water so that a
supply is conserved and made available for future or alternative uses.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, company or organization using water supplied by the
city.
   DOMESTIC WATER USE. Water use for personal needs or for household or
sanitary purposes such as drinking, bathing, heating, cooking, sanitation or
cleaning a residence, business, industry or institution.
   EVEN NUMBER ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers or rural postal route
numbers ending in 0, 2, 4, 6 or 8 and locations without addresses.
   INDUSTRIAL WATER USE. The use of water in processes designed to convert
materials of lower value into forms having greater usability and value.
   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION USE. Water used for the irrigation and maintenance of
landscaped areas, whether publicly or privately owned, including residential
and commercial lawns, gardens, golf courses, parks, and rights-of-way and
medians.
   NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USE. Water uses that are not essential nor required for
the protection of public, health, safety and welfare, including:
      (1)   Irrigation of landscape areas, including parks, athletic fields,
and golf courses, except otherwise provided under this Plan;
      (2)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat, trailer,
airplane or other vehicle;
      (3)   Use of water to wash down any sidewalks, walkways, driveways,
parking lots, tennis courts or other hard-surfaced areas;
      (4)   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire protection;
      (5)   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in any
gutter or street;
      (6)   Use of water to fill, refill or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools or Jacuzzi-type pools;
      (7)   Use of water in a fountain or pond for aesthetic or scenic purposes
except where necessary to support aquatic life;
      (8)   Failure to repair controllable leak(s) within a reasonable period
after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s); and
      (9)   Use of water from hydrants for construction purposes or any other
purposes other than firefighting.
   ODD NUMBERED ADDRESS. Street addresses, box numbers or rural postal route
numbers ending in 1, 3, 5, 7 or 9.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.08 TRIGGERING CRITERIA FOR INITIATION AND TERMINATION OF DROUGHT.
   (A)   Response stages.
      (1)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall monitor water supply and/or
demand conditions on a daily basis and shall determine when conditions warrant
initiation or termination of each stage of the Plan. Public notification of the
initiation or termination of drought response stages shall be by means of a
publication in the newspaper of general circulation, notification to local
radio/TV stations and written faxes to industrial and outside city water users.
      (2)   The triggering criteria described below are based on the drought of
record of this area from 1950 to 1957. The city obtains water from wells in the
Trinity Aquifer.
      (3)   The city’s Plan is based on the adequacy and reliability of the
water production and distribution facilities under drought conditions. Capacity
and equipment problems could temporarily impact the city’s water production and
delivery system. Given the groundwater resources available in the county there
is a possibility that the water supply will not be adequate to meet the city’s
water needs to the 2050 planning period required by Senate Bill 1.
   (B)   Stage 1 - mild water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be requested to
voluntarily conserve water and adhere to the prescribed restrictions on certain
water uses, defined in §
53.07, when total daily water demand equals or exceeds 80% or 0.5069 million
gallons per day for five consecutive days based on the “safe” operating
capacity of water supply facilities.
      (2)   Requirements for termination. Stage 1 of the Plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of three consecutive days.
   (C)   Stage 2 - moderate water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Requirements for initiation. Customers shall be required to comply
with the requirements and restrictions on certain non-essential water uses
provided in §
53.07 of this chapter when water demands equal or exceed 90%, or 0.5702 million
gallons per day for three consecutive days based on the safe operating capacity
of the facilities.
      (2)   Requirements for termination. Stage 2 of the Plan may be rescinded
when all of the conditions listed as triggering events have ceased to exist for
a period of three consecutive days. Upon termination of Stage 2, Stage 1
becomes operative.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.09 DROUGHT.
   (A)   Response stages. The Mayor or his or her designee shall monitor water
supply and/or demand conditions on a daily basis and, in accordance with the
triggering criteria set forth in §
53.08 of the Plan, shall determine that a mild, moderate, severe, critical or
emergency condition exists and shall implement the following actions upon
publication of a notice in a newspaper of general circulation.
   (B)   Stage 1 - mild water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Goal. Achieve a voluntary 5% reduction in daily water demand.
      (2)   Supply management measures. In an effort to manage limited water
supplies and/or reduce water demand the city will reduce or discontinue
flushing of water mains.
      (3)   Voluntary water use restrictions.
         (a)   Water customers are requested to voluntarily limit the
irrigation of landscaped areas to Sundays and Thursdays for customers with
street addresses ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6 or 8) and Saturdays and
Tuesdays for water customers with a street address ending in an odd number (1,
3, 5, 7 or 9), or to irrigate landscapes only between the hours of midnight and
10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. to midnight on designated watering days.
         (b)   All operations of the city shall adhere to water use
restrictions prescribed for Stage 2 of the Plan.
         (c)   Water customers are requested to practice water conservation and
to minimize or discontinue water use for non-essential purposes.
   (C)   Stage 2 - moderate water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Goal. Achieve a 15% reduction in daily water demand.
      (2)   Supply management measures. In an effort to manage limited water
supplies and/or reduce water demand, the city will reduce or discontinue
flushing of water mains and reduce or discontinue irrigation of public
landscaped areas.
      (3)   Water use restrictions. Under threat of penalty or violation, the
following water use restrictions shall apply to all persons.
         (a)   Irrigation of landscaped areas with hose-end sprinklers or
automatic irrigation systems shall be limited to Sundays and Thursdays for
customers with a street address ending in an even number (0, 2, 4, 6 or 8), and
Saturdays and Tuesdays for water customers with a street address ending in an
odd number (1, 3, 5, 7 or 9), and irrigation of landscaped areas is further
limited to the hours of 12:00 midnight until 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m.
and 12:00 midnight on designated watering days. However, irrigation of
landscaped areas is permitted at anytime if it is by means of a hand-held hose,
a faucet filled bucket or watering can of five gallons or less, or drip
irrigation system.
         (b)   Use of water to wash any motor vehicle, motorbike, boat,
trailer, airplane or other vehicle is prohibited except on designated watering
days between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and
12:00 a.m. Such washing, when allowed, shall be done with a hand-held bucket or
hand-held hose equipped with a positive shutoff nozzle for quick rinses.
Vehicle washing may be done at any time on the immediate premises of a
commercial car wash or commercial service station. Further, such washing may be
exempted from these regulations if the health, safety and welfare of the public
is contingent upon frequent vehicle cleansing, such as garbage trucks and
vehicles used to transport food and perishables.
         (c)   Use of water to fill, refill or add to any indoor or outdoor
swimming pools, wading pools or Jacuzzi-type pools is prohibited except on
designated watering days between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. between
8:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m.
         (d)   Operation of any ornamental fountain or pond for aesthetic or
scenic purposes is prohibited except where necessary to support aquatic life or
where such fountains or ponds are equipped with a recirculation system.
         (e)   Use of water from hydrants shall be limited to firefighting,
related activities or other activities necessary to maintain public health,
safety and welfare, except that use of water from designated fire hydrants for
construction purposes may be allowed under special permit from the city.
         (f)   Use of water for the irrigation of golf course greens, tees and
fairways is prohibited except on designated watering days between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. However, if the
golf course utilizes a water source other than that provided by the city, the
facility shall not be subject to these regulations.
         (g)   All restaurants are prohibited from serving water to its patrons
except when requested.
         (h)   The following uses of water are defined as non-essential and are
prohibited:
            1.   Wash down of any sidewalks, walkways, driveways, parking lots,
tennis courts or other hard-surfaced areas;
            2.   Use of water to wash down buildings or structures for purposes
other than immediate fire protection;
            3.   Use of water for dust control except where there is concern
for public health in confined spaces;
            4.   Flushing gutters or permitting water to run or accumulate in
any gutter or street; and
            5.   Failure to repair a controllable leak(s) within a reasonable
period after having been given notice directing the repair of such leak(s).
   (D)   Stage 3 - severe water shortage conditions.
      (1)   Goal. Achieve a 20% reduction in daily water demand.
      (2)   Supply management measures. In an effort to manage limited water
supplies and/or reduce water demand, the city will reduce or discontinue
flushing of water mains, discontinue irrigation of public landscaped areas and
use of reclaimed water for non-potable purposes.
      (3)   Water use restrictions. All requirements of Stage 2 shall remain in
effect during Stage 3 except:
         (a)   Irrigation of landscaped areas shall be limited to designated
watering days between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and between 8:00
p.m. and 12:00 a.m. and shall be by means of hand-held hoses, hand-held
buckets, drip irrigation or permanently installed automatic sprinkler system
only. The use of hose-end sprinklers is prohibited at all times.
         (b)   The watering of golf course tees is prohibited unless the golf
course utilizes a water source other than that provided by the city.
         (c)   The use of water for construction purposes from designated fire
hydrants under special permit is to be discontinued.
   (E)   Industrial customers.
      (1)   A monthly water usage allocation shall be established by the Mayor,
or his or her designee, for each industrial customer that uses water for
processing purposes. The industrial customer’s allocation shall be
approximately 90% of the customer’s water usage baseline. The industrial
customer’s water usage baseline will be computed on the average water usage for
the three-month period ending prior to the date of implementation of Stage 2 of
the Plan. The Mayor shall give his or her best effort to see that notice of
each industrial customer’s allocation is mailed or faxed to such customer. If,
however, a customer does not receive such notice, it shall be the customer’s
responsibility to contact the city to determine the allocation, and the
allocation shall be fully effective notwithstanding the lack of receipt of such
notice.
      (2)   Upon request of the customer, or at the initiative of the Mayor,
the allocation may be reduced or increased:
         (a)   If the designated period does not accurately reflect the
customer’s normal water usage because the customer had shutdown a major
processing unit for repair or overhaul during the period;
         (b)   The customer has added or is in the process of adding
significant additional processing capacity;
         (c)   The customer has shutdown or significantly reduced the
production of a major processing unit;
         (d)   The customer has previously implemented significant permanent
water conservation measures such that the ability to further reduce usage is
limited;
         (e)   The customer agrees to transfer part of its allocation to
another industrial customer; or
         (f)   If other objective evidence demonstrates that the designated
allocation is inaccurate under present conditions. A customer may appeal an
allocation established hereunder to the City Council.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.10 WATER RATIONING; OUTSIDE CITY CUSTOMER.
   (A)   The city has contracted with several water customers who are located
outside the city limits. When drought conditions trigger Stage 1 criteria, each
outside city water customer will be mailed or faxed a notice requesting that
they comply with the same voluntary water use practices as the water customers
of the city.
   (B)   When moderate or Stage 2 criteria are triggered, each outside city
water user will be mailed or faxed a letter advising that they will be expected
to comply with a pro-rata reduction of water usage in compliance with
provisions of the Tex. Water Code, § 11.039. This pro-rata reduction shall mean
that the same water use restrictions enforced on the city water users will be
applicable to outside city water customers.
   (C)   If Stage 3 criteria are triggered the city will mail or fax a letter
to each outside city water customer advising that each outside city water
customer will be expected to comply with the same restrictions as customers of
the city and each outside city water customer must comply with the provisions
of the Tex. Water Code, § 11.039.
   (D)   If, however, a customer does not receive a notice sent by the city, it
shall be the outside city customer’s responsibility to contact the city to
determine the restrictions with which it must comply. In future contracts for
outside city water sales or renewals of existing contracts the city will
include a provision stating that in case of a shortage of water resulting from
a drought or equipment failure, the water to be distributed shall be divided in
accordance with the Tex. Water Code, § 11.039.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall knowingly or intentionally allow the use of water from the
city for residential, commercial, industrial, agricultural, governmental or any
other purpose in a manner contrary to any provision of this Plan, or in an
amount in excess of that permitted by the drought response stage in effect at
the time pursuant to action taken by the Mayor or his or her designee in
accordance with the provisions of this Plan.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.12 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Mayor or his or her designee may, in writing, grant temporary
variance for existing water uses otherwise prohibited under this Plan if it is
determined that failure to grant such variance would cause an emergency
condition adversely affecting the health, sanitation or fire protection for the
public or the person requesting such variance and if one or more of the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   Compliance with the Plan cannot be technically accomplished during
the duration of the water supply shortage or other condition for which the Plan
is in effect; or
      (2)   Alternative methods can be implemented which will achieve the same
level of reduction in water use.
   (B)   (1)   Persons requesting an exemption from the provisions of this
chapter shall file a petition for variance with the Mayor within five days
after the Plan or a particular drought response stage has been invoked.
      (2)   All petitions for variances shall be reviewed by the Mayor or his
or her designee, and shall include the following:
         (a)   Name and address of the petitioner(s);
         (b)   Purpose of water use;
         (c)   Specific provision(s) of the Plan from which the petitioner is
requesting relief;
         (d)   Detailed statement as to how the specific provision of the Plan
adversely affects the petitioner or what damage or harm will occur to the
petitioner or others if petitioner complies with this chapter;
         (e)   Description of the relief requested;
         (f)   Period of time for which the variance is sought;
         (g)   Alternative water use restrictions or other measures the
petitioner is taking or proposes to take to meet the intent of this Plan and
the compliance date; and
         (h)   Other pertinent information.
   (C)   Variances granted by the city shall be subject to the following
conditions, unless waived or modified by the Mayor or his or her designee.
      (1)   Variances granted shall include a timetable for compliance.
      (2)   Variances granted shall expire when the Plan is no longer in
effect, unless the petitioner has failed to meet specified requirements.
   (D)   No variance shall be retroactive or otherwise justify any violation of
this Plan occurring prior to the issuance of the variance.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this Plan is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50 and not more than
$200. Each day that one or more of the provisions in this Plan is violated
shall constitute a separate offense. If a person is convicted of three or more
distinct violations of this Plan, the Mayor shall, upon due notice to the
customer, be authorized to discontinue water service to the premises where such
violations occur. Services discontinued under such circumstances shall be
restored only upon payment of reconnection charge, hereby established at $20
for the first time offense, and any other costs incurred by the city in
discontinuing service. In addition, suitable assurance must be given to the
Mayor that the same action shall not be repeated while the Plan is in effect.
Compliance with this plan may also be sought through injunctive relief in the
District Court.
   (B)   Any person, including a person classified as a water customer of the
city, in apparent control of the property where a violation occurs or
originates shall be presumed to be the violator, and proof that the violation
occurred on the person’s property shall constitute a rebuttable presumption
that the person in apparent control of the property committed the violation,
but any such person shall have the right to show that he or she did not commit
the violation. Parents shall be presumed to be responsible for violations of
their minor children and proof that a violation, committed by a child, occurred
on property within the parents’ control shall constitute a rebuttable
presumption that the parent committed the violation, but any such parent may be
excused if he or she proved he or she had previously directed the child not to
use the water as it was used in violation of this Plan and that the parent
could not have reasonably known of the violation.
   (C)   Any employee of the city, police officer or other city employee
designated by the Mayor may issue a citation to a person he or she reasonably
believes to be in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 11-00, passed 11-6-2000)
CHAPTER 54: SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR WATER AND SEWER
Section
   
54.01   Schedule of fees for water and sewer
§ 54.01 SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR WATER AND SEWER.
   (A)   The following rate schedule of fees is hereby adopted.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon final conviction
thereof fined in an amount not exceeding $2,000 for violations of all
provisions that govern fire safety, public health, and sanitation, and not
exceeding $500 for all other violations. Each and every day any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense punishable hereunder.
Billing Code Description Class Quantity Price Rate
Water        Residential                    
Billing Code Description   Class     Quantity         Price    Rate
Water        Residential                                     
                                     Base (minimum) 0 $18.49
                                     gallons
                                     0 to 8,000       $18.49   $3.36 per 1.000
                                     gallons                   gallons
             3/4 in. meter           8,001 gallons to $45.37   $4.60 per 1,000
1010         water rate    W-Nonta x 14,000 gallons            gallons
                                     14,001 gallons            $5.84 per 1,000
                                     to 21,000        $86.25   gallons
                                     gallons
                                     21,001 gallons   $127.13  $7.41 per 1.000
                                     and up                    gallons
                                     0 to 8,000       $23.10   $3.36 per 1,000
                                     gallons                   gallons
                                     8,001 to 14,000  $49.98   $6.44 per 1,000
             1"                      gallons                   gallons
                                     14,001 to 21,000 $88.62   $8.17 per 1,000
                                     gallons                   gallons
                                     21,001 gallons   $145.81  $10.37 per 1,000
                                     and up                    gallons
                                     0 to 8,000       $30.82   $4.37 per 1,000
                                     gallons                   gallons
                                     8,001 to 14,000  $65.78   $6.44 per 1,000
             1.5"                    gallons                   gallons
                                     14,001 to 21,000 $104.4 2 $8.17 per 1,000
                                     gallons                   gallons
                                     21,001 gallons   $161.6 1 $10.37 per 1,000
                                     and up                    gallons
1020         Outside city  W-Nontax  Base (minimum) 0 $27.74
             limits                  gallons
                                     0 to 8,000       $27.74   $5.04 per 1,000
                                     gallons                   gallons
                                     8,001 gallons to $68.06   $6.90 per 1,000
             Rate + 1/2              14,000 gallons            gallons
             3/4 in. meter           14,001 gallons            $8.76 per 1,000
             water rate              to 21,000        $129.38  gallons
                                     gallons
                                     21,001 gallons   $190.70  $11.16 per 1,000
                                     and up                    gallons
                                     Base (minimum) 0 $34.66
                                     gallons
                                     0 to 8,000       $34.66   $5.04 per 1,000
                                     gallons                   gallons
             Rate + 1/2              8,001 to 14,000  $74.98   $9.66 per 1,000
1110         1 in. meter   W-Nontax  gallons                   gallons
             water rate              14,001 gallons            $12.26 per 1,000
                                     to 21,000        $132.90  gallons
                                     gallons
                                     21,001 gallons   $218.72  $15.56 per 1,000
                                     and up                    gallons
                                     Base (minimum) 0 $61.64
                                     gallons
                                     0 to 8,000       $61.64   $8.74 per 1,000
                                     gallons                   gallons
             Rate + 1/2              8,001 gallons    $131.56  $12.88 per 1,000
1150         2 in. meter   W-Nontax  14,000 gallons            gallons
             water rate              14,001 gallons            $16.34 per 1,000
                                     to 21,000        $208.84  gallons
                                     gallons
                                     21,001 gallons   $323.22  $20.74 per 1,000
                                     and up                    gallons
 
Billing Code Description Class Quantity Price Rate
Water        Commercial                     
Billing Code Description     Class     Quantity          Price  Rate
Water        Commercial                                       
                                       Base (minimum) 0  $16.81
                                       gallons
1030         3/4 in. meter   W-Nont ax 0 to 8,000        $16.81 $3.07 per 1,000
             water rate                gallons                  gallons
                                       8,001 gallons and $41.37 $3.68 per 1,000
                                       up                       gallons
                                       0 to 8,000        $21.01 $3.10 per 1,000
             1 in. meter               gallons                  gallons
             water rate                8,001 gallons and $45.81 $5.15 per 1,000
                                       up                       gallons
                                       0 to 8,000        $28.01 $4.04 per 1,000
             1.5 in. meter             gallons                  gallons
             water rate                8,001 gallons and $60.33 $5.15 per 1,000
                                       up                       gallons
                                       0 to 8,000        $39.22 $4.27 per 1,000
             2 in. meter               gallons                  gallons
             water rate                8,001 gallons and $73.38 $5.15 per 1,000
                                       up                       gallons
                                       0 to 8,000        $53.22 $4.82 per 1,000
             3 in. meter               gallons                  gallons
             water rate - 1B           8,001 gallons and $91.78 $5.15 per 1,000
                                       up                       gallons
                                       0 to 8,000        $53.22 $4.82 per 1,000
             3 in. meter               gallons                  gallons
             water rate - 1A           8,001 gallons and $91.78 $4.67 per 1,000
                                       up                       gallons
1040         Outside city    W-Nontax  Base (minimum) 0  $25.22
             limits                    gallons
             Rate + 1/2                0 to 8,000        $25.22 $5.00 per 1,000
             3/4 in. water             gallons                  gallons
             meter rate                8,001 gallons and $62.06 $5.85 per 1,000
                                       up                       gallons
 
Billing Code Description   Class Quantity Price Rate
Water        Institutional                    
Billing Code Description     Class    Quantity          Price   Rate
Water        Institutional                                    
                                      Base (minimum) 0  $16.81
                                      gallons
1032         3/4 in. meter   W-Nontax 0 to 8,000        $16.81  $3.07 per 1,000
             water rate               gallons                   gallons
                                      8,001 gallons and $41.37  $3.68 per 1,000
                                      up                        gallons
                                      Base (minimum) 0  $21.01
                                      gallons
681132       1 in. meter     W-Nontax 0 to 8,000        $21.01  $3.10 per 1,000
             water rate               gallons                   gallons
                                      8,001 gallons and $45.81  $5.15 per 1,000
                                      up                        gallons
                                      Base (minimum) 0  $28.01
                                      gallons
1162         1-1/2 in. meter W-Nontax 0 to 8,000        $28.01  $4.04 per 1,000
             water rate               gallons                   gallons
                                      8,001 gallons and $60.33  $5.15 per 1,000
                                      up                        gallons
                                      Base (minimum) 0  $39.22
                                      gallons
1232         2 in. meter     W-Nontax 0 to 8,000        $39.22  $4.27 per 1,000
             water rate               gallons                   gallons
                                      8,001 gallons and $73.38  $5.15 per 1,000
                                      up                        gallons
                                      Base (minimum) 0  $53.22
                                      gallons
1312         3 in. meter     W-Nontax 0 to 8,000        $53.22  $4.82 per 1,000
             water rate - 2B          gallons                   gallons
                                      8,001 gallons and $91.78  $5.15 per 1,000
                                      up                        gallons
                                      Base (minimum) 0  $53.22
                                      gallons
1332         3 in. meter     W-Nontax 0 to 8,000        $53.22  $4.82 per 1,000
             water rate - 2A          gallons                   gallons
                                      8,001 gallons and $91.78  $5.15 per 1,000
                                      up                        gallons
                                      0 to 8,000        $65.35  $4.82 per 1,000
             Fire Hydrant             gallons                   gallons
             Meter                    8,001 gallons and $100.78 $5.15 per 1,000
                                      up                        gallons
 
Billing Code Description Class Quantity Price Rate
Sewer                                      
Billing Code Description    Class    Quantity       Price        Rate
Sewer                                                         
2050         Sewer rate -   S-Nontax Base (minimum) $75.00
             no water meter          0 gallons
                                     Base (minimum) $35.92
             Residential             0 gallons
2010         sewer rate     S-Nontax 0 to 12,656    $35.92       $3.29 per
                                     gallons                     1,000 gallons
                                     12,657 and up  $65
             Residential             Base (minimum) $46.41
             sewer rate -            0 gallons
2020         outside CL 1-  S-Nontax 0 to 12,656    $46.41       $4.95 per
             1/2 in                  gallons                     1,000 gallons
                                     12,657 and up  $109.06
             Commercial              Base (minimum) $53.05
2030         sewer rate -   S-Nontax 0 gallons
             inside CL               0 and greater  $53.05       $3.45 per
                                                                 1,000 gallons
             Commercial              Base (minimum) $72.07
2040         sewer rate -   S-Nontax 0 gallons
             outside CL              0 and greater  $72.07       $4.95 per
                                                                 1,000 gallons
             Water tap -                                         And all cost
             inside CL                              $1,500       plus 15% of
                                                                 cost
             Water tap -                                         And all cost
             outside CL                             $2,500       plus 15% of
                                                                 cost
             Sewer tap -                                         And all cost
             inside CL                              $2,250       plus 15% of
                                                                 cost
             Sewer tap -                                         And all cost
             outside CL                             $3,250       plus 15% of
                                                                 cost
                                                                 Plus cost of
             Meter                                               meter and all
             installation -                         $150         related
             inside CL                                           appurtenances;
                                                                 plus 15% of
                                                                 those costs
                                                                 Plus cost of
             Meter                                               meter and all
             installation -                         $225         related
             outside CL                                          appurtenances;
                                                                 plus 15% of
                                                                 those costs
             Residential
             meter deposit                          $200
             - inside CL
             Residential
             meter deposit                          $300
             - outside CL
             Commercial
             meter deposit                          $500
             - inside CL
             Commercial
             meter deposit                          $650
             - outside CL
             Fire hydrant
             meter deposit                          $1,000
             - inside CL
9010         Service charge                         $50
             - inside CL
9030         Service charge                         $75
             - outside CL
             Cut-off                                $75
             installation
             Fire hydrant                           $10 daily or
             meter rental                           $250 monthly
9060         Returned check                         $35
             fee
 
Billing Code Description Class Quantity Price Rate
Garbage
             Residential
Billing Code Description       Class Quantity Price           Rate
Garbage
             Residential
3010         Garbage fee - 1                  $23.00          $13 each
             polycart                                         additional cart
             Commercial
             Polycart 1x                      $24.00
             Garbage fee 2 yd.                $109.00
             1x
             Garbage fee 2 yd.                $141.00
             2x
             Garbage fee 3 yd.                $138.00
             1x
             Garbage fee 3 yd.                $199.00
             2x
             Garbage fee 4 yd.                $166.00
             1x
             Garbage fee 4 yd.                $257.00
             2x
             Garbage fee 6 yd.                $224.00
             1x (2 x 3yd)
             Garbage fee 6 yd.                $372.00
             2x (2 x 3yd)
             Garbage fee 8 yd.                $282.00
             1x (2 x 4yd)
             Garbage fee 8 yd.                $488.00
             2x (2 x 4yd)
             Extra dump                       $135
             Commercial lock                  $125.00 (1 time
                                              fee)
 
(Ord. 05-68, passed 3-9-1968; Ord. 9-06-94, passed 9-6-1994; Ord. 0805-2,
passed 8-8-2005; Ord. 0905-2, passed 9-12-2005; Ord. 0906-2, passed 9-11-2006;
Ord. 0907-3, passed 9-10-2007; Ord. 0808-1, passed 8-19-2008; Ord. 0910-2,
passed 9-13-2010; Ord. 1211-4, passed 12-20-2011; Ord. 0912-4, passed 9-10-
2012; Ord. 0913-4, passed 9-10-2013; Ord. 0914-4, passed 9-8-2014; Ord. 0115-1,
passed 1-12-2015; Ord. 0916-4, passed 9-26-2016; Ord. 0917-4, passed 9-11-2017;
Ord. 0918-4, passed 9-10-2018; Ord. 1118-1, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 0919-4,
passed 9-9-2019; Ord. 1120-1, passed 11-3-2020; Ord. 0621-01, passed 6-1-2021;
Ord. 0721-1, passed 7-6-2021; Ord. 1221-1, passed 11-14-2021; Ord. 0222-1,
passed 2-8-2022; Ord. 0723-1, passed 7-27-2023; Ord. 1023-1, passed 10-10-2023)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Motor vehicles prohibited from engine braking
   
70.02   Prohibition on truck through traffic
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED FROM ENGINE BRAKING.
   (A)   The recitals contained in the preamble of Ord. 1017-3 are determined
to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as a part of this section.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate an engine of any motor vehicle, as
defined by the Tex. Transportation Code, § 541.201, so to brake or slow the
motor vehicle through the use of gears (commonly referred to as “jake braking”
or “engine braking”) or by any other method which produces any noise in
addition to the normal operating engine noise, except in an emergency
situation.
      (2)   The term EMERGENCY SITUATION, for the purposes of this section,
shall mean one in which there is imminent danger of collision with property,
persons or animals.
(Ord. 1017-3, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 PROHIBITION ON TRUCK THROUGH TRAFFIC
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   The following words, terms and phrases when used in this section
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
         AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Fire department trucks, police trucks,
public ambulances for which permits have been issued by the State Board of
Health, emergency trucks of municipal departments or public service
corporations as are designated or authorized by the governing body of an
incorporated city, private trucks operated by volunteer firemen or certified
emergency  medical volunteers while answering a fire alarm or responding to a
medical emergency, and trucks owned by the state or by a political subdivision
engaged in emergency utility repair or electric, water, or wastewater services.
      (2)   Terms not defined herein shall be construed in accordance with
ordinary usage.
   (B)   Through truck traffic prohibited.
      (1)   A person commits an offense if the person drives or operates, on
any street or roadway within the corporate limits of the city that is
designated as a no through truck route and is marked with a sign prohibiting
through truck traffic, a vehicle that:
         (a)   Has dual or tandem rear axles;
         (b)   Is a tractor-trailer combination; or
         (c)   Has a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more.
      (2)   It shall be an affirmative defense to prosecution under division
(B)(l) that:
         (a)   The vehicle is being used to make deliveries or pick-ups from a
residence or business located on the no through truck route and the driver
possesses a log book, delivery slip or other evidence of his or her destination
and point of origin for such vehicle;
         (b)   The vehicle is being used or operated by a service, construction
or other business to perform work at a residence or business located on the no
through truck route;
         (c)   The vehicle is a recreational vehicle which is designed for a
temporary or short-term occupancy for travel, recreational or vacation uses,
including vacation travel trailers, recreational vehicles, tent trailers or
similar vehicles used for temporary portable housing;
         (d)   The vehicle is a personal trailer pulled by a personal vehicle,
such as a horse trailer, stock trailer, dog trailer, motorcycle trailer, boat
trailer, lawn equipment trailer, and gooseneck trailer;
         (e)   The vehicle is a vehicle for street construction, maintenance,
and repair and is engaged in the construction, maintenance, or repair of
streets;
         (f)   The vehicle is used by a public service company in providing or
expanding their service within the city;
         (g)   The vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle responding to a
call;
         (h)   The vehicle is used or operated by the city performing city
business, including transit uses;
         (i)   The vehicle is used by the city's franchisee for the
franchisee's approved activities;
         (j)   The vehicle is being used or operated by a public school system
to transport children;
         (k)   The vehicle is operating under a valid permit issued by the
state department of highways and public transportation under Texas Trans. Code,
§ 623.071; or
         (l)   The vehicle is operating with a valid permit issued by the city.
      (3)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of $500
for each offense, except, however, where a different penalty has been
established by state law for such offense, the penalty shall be that fixed by
state law.
   (C)   No through truck traffic routes designated.
      (1)   The following routes, described below, shall be designated as no
through truck traffic routes:
 
Route        Location
Pecan Street Between State Highway 82 and Main Street (FM 1199) within the
             corporate limits of the city
 
      (2)   The City Secretary or his or her designee shall direct that signs
designating the above routes as “no through truck routes” shall be erected and
placed accordingly.
(Ord. 0818-6, passed 8-13-2018; Ord. 0522-1, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any portion of §
70.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction be subject to a fine
of not more than $200. Each incident that violates §
70.01 shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of §
70.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished by
a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 1017-3, passed 10-10-2017; Ord. 0818-6, passed 8-13-2018)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Regulating stopping, standing and parking of motor vehicles
Parking of Vehicles Unable to Operate Under its Own Power
   
71.15   Parking on public roadways
   
71.16   Parking regulation in residential areas
 
   
71.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 REGULATING STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   The recitals contained in the preamble of Ord. 1017-4 are determined
to be true and correct and are hereby adopted as a part of this section.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall not stop, stand or park a motor vehicle, as
defined by the Tex. Transportation Code, § 541.201, at any time upon any public
street, alleyway, other public place or fire lane when signs are erected or
curbs are painted giving notice that stopping, standing or parking is
prohibited, except in an emergency situation.
      (2)   The term EMERGENCY SITUATION, for the purposes of this section,
shall mean one in which there is imminent danger of a loss of life of a person
or loss of property due to fire, flood or tornadic event.
(Ord. 1017-4, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARKING OF VEHICLES UNABLE TO OPERATE UNDER ITS OWN POWER
§ 71.15 PARKING ON PUBLIC ROADWAYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave an unattended vehicle or
other private property standing or parked in a public street, alley or other
public place, including the right-of-way of any street or alley, for a
continuous period of time longer than 72 hours.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any boat trailer, stock
trailer, recreational vehicle (RVs) or any other vehicle unable to operate
under its own power on any public street or roadway, including the right-of-way
of any street or alley, within the municipality for a continuous period of time
longer than 72 hours.
(Ord. 0707-1, passed 8-13-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 PARKING REGULATION IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or store, or to allow another to
park or store a recreational vehicle, travel trailer, boat or boat trailer on a
public roadway in any residential zoned district for a continuous period of
time longer than 72 hours.
(Ord. 0707-1, passed 8-13-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any portion of §
71.01 is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction be subject to a fine
of not more than $200. Each incident that violates §
71.01 shall be considered a separate offense.
   (C)   Any violation of any provision of §§
71.15 and
71.16 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 0707-1, passed 8-13-2007; Ord. 1017-4, passed 10-10-2017)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Permitted and restricted
   
72.03   Additional requirements for gasoline powered vehicles
   
72.04   Additional operational requirements
   
72.05   Liability
   
72.06   Registration permit required
   
72.07   Inspection required
   
72.08   Public safety and park maintenance personnel
   
72.09   Agricultural use of off-highway vehicles
   
72.10   Operation of all-terrain vehicles prohibited
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. Use in connection with the production, cultivation, care,
harvesting, preserving, drying, processing, canning, storing, handling,
shipping, marketing, selling, or use of agricultural products, as defined by
Tex. Agriculture Code § 52.002, as it currently exists or as amended.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle that is:
      (1)   Equipped with a seat or seats for use of the rider and a passenger,
if designed to transport a passenger;
      (2)   Designed to propel itself with three or more tires in contact with
the ground;
      (3)   Designed by the manufacturer for use off a public highway;
      (4)   Not designed by the manufacturer primarily for farming or lawn
care; and
      (5)   Not more than 50 inches wide.
   DAYTIME. The period beginning one-half hour before sunrise and ending one-
half hour after sunset.
   DRIVER. The person driving and having physical control over the golf cart or
off-highway vehicle.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. The authorization issued by a state for the operation of a
motor vehicle. The term includes:
      (1)   A temporary license or instruction permit; and
      (2)   An occupational license.
   GOLF CART. A motor vehicle designed by the manufacturer primarily for use on
a golf course.
   OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A recreational off-highway vehicle or a utility
vehicle.
   OWNER. The person holding title to the golf cart or off-highway vehicle.
   PARK or PARKING. The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in,
loading or unloading merchandise or passengers.
   PARKING AREA. Areas accessible to the public by motor vehicular traffic and
which are designated for temporary parking of vehicles, usually in places
referred to as parking lots.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The person to whom a golf cart or off-highway vehicle permit
has been issued.
   PUBLIC HIGHWAY. Any road, street, way, thoroughfare, right-of-way or bridge
within the corporate limits of the city that is used for vehicles, that is not
privately owned or controlled, and over which the city, the county, the state
or the United States government has jurisdiction.
   PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL. Any employee or officer of a governmental law
enforcement agency or the City of Lindsay or its department(s).
   PUBLIC STREET. The public roadways of the City of Lindsay by whatever name,
e.g. road, alley, avenue, highway, route, boulevard, etc. within the corporate
boundaries of Lindsay that:
      (1)   Has a speed limit of 35 miles per hour or less;
      (2)   Provides for no more than one lane of vehicular traffic per
direction;
      (3)   Is not designated as part of either the state or federal highway
system.
   REGISTRATION PERMIT. A privilege granted, upon compliance with the terms of
this chapter, to legally operate a golf cart or off-highway vehicle upon a
public street or roadway within the corporate boundaries of the City of Lindsay
during the period when granted.
   REGISTRATION PERMIT DECAL. A certificate for attachment to a golf cart or
off-highway vehicle carrying a serial number corresponding to the number of the
registration permit for such golf cart or off-highway vehicle and showing the
month and calendar year the permit shall expire.
   REGISTRATION PERMIT FEE. The administrative charge imposed as specified in
this chapter for the granting of a registration permit and the issuance of a
registration permit decal for a golf cart or off-highway vehicle.
   RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE. A vehicle that is:
      (1)   Equipped with a seat or seats for the use of the ride and a
passenger or passengers, if the vehicle is designed by the manufacturer to
transport a passenger or passengers;
      (2)   Designed to propel itself with four or more tires in contact with
the ground;
      (3)   Designed by the manufacturer for off-highway use by the operator
only; and
      (4)   Not designed by the manufacturer primarily for farming or lawn
care.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street that is between a curb or lateral line of
a roadway and the adjacent property line and intended for pedestrian use.
   SLOW-MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM. A triangular emblem that conforms to standards
and specifications adopted by the Director of the Texas Department of
Transportation under Tex. Transportation Code § 547.104 and is displayed in
accordance with Tex. Transportation Code § 547.703.
   TEXAS TRANSPORTATION CODE. The Code as it currently exists or as it may be
amended.
   TRAFFIC WAY. Any land way open to the public as a matter of right or custom
for moving persons or property from one place to another. The traffic way
includes all property, both improved and unimproved, between the property lines
of a roadway system.
   UTILITY VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle that is not a golf cart or lawn
mower and is:
      (1)   Equipped with side-by-side seating for the use of the operator and
a passenger;
      (2)   Designed to propel itself with at least four tires in contact with
the ground;
      (3)   Designed by the manufacturer for use off a public highway; and
      (4)   Designed by the manufacturer primarily for utility work and not for
recreational purposes.
   VEHICLE. A device in or by which a person or property is or may be
transported or drawn on a public highway, other than a device used exclusively
on stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.02 PERMITTED AND RESTRICTED.
   A person, other than public safety personnel, shall not operate a golf cart
or an off-highway vehicle on a public street, parking area and/or traffic way
unless the person obtains a registration permit, affixes a registration decal,
and meets the following requirements:
   (A)   The maximum speed limit on the public street is 35 miles per hour or
less;
   (B)   The person has a valid driver's license;
   (C)   The person maintains current financial responsibility for the golf
cart or off-highway vehicle, as required of other passenger vehicles in Tex.
Transportation Code § 601.051;
   (D)   The person complies with all applicable federal, state and local laws
and ordinances;
   (E)   The golf cart or off-highway vehicle has the following equipment,
which must continuously remain in good working and operational order:
      (1)   Two headlamps;
      (2)   Two tail lamps;
      (3)   Side reflectors (two front, amber in color and two rear, red in
color);
      (4)   Parking brake;
      (5)   Rearview mirror(s), capable of a clear, unobstructed view of at
least 200 feet to the rear;
   (F)   Slow-moving vehicle emblem(s) shall be mounted base down on the rear
of the vehicle and shall be maintained in a clean reflective condition;
   (G)   While the golf cart or off-highway vehicle is in motion, the driver
and every passenger in the vehicle is seated in a seat designed to hold
passengers. No person may stand or ride in the lap of the driver and/or other
passenger of a golf cart or off-highway vehicle while it is moving; and
   (H)   The equipment described herein meets the Texas and Federal Motor
Vehicle Safety Standards, as they exist or may be amended.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.03 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR GASOLINE POWERED VEHICLES.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements set forth herein, every golf cart or
off-highway vehicle powered by gasoline shall at all times be equipped with an
exhaust system in good working order and in constant operation and meet the
following specifications:
      (1)   The exhaust system shall include the piping leading from the flange
of the exhaust manifold to and including the muffler and exhaust pipes or
including any and all parts specified by the manufacturer;
      (2)   The exhaust system and its elements shall be securely fastened with
brackets or hangers, which are designed for the particular purpose of fastening
golf cart exhaust systems;
      (3)   The engine and powered mechanism of every golf cart or off-highway
vehicle shall be so equipped, adjusted and tuned so that the exhaust is in good
working order.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any golf cart or off-highway
vehicle to operate or permit the operation of such vehicle on which any device
controlling or abating atmospheric emissions which is placed on a golf cart or
off-highway vehicle by the manufacturer is rendered unserviceable by removal,
alteration or any other method that interferes with its operation.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.04 ADDITIONAL OPERATIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except when operated by public safety personnel or park maintenance
personnel, golf carts or off-highway vehicles shall not be operated on any
sidewalk, pedestrian walkway, jogging path, park trail or any location normally
used for pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   All golf carts or off-highway vehicles are entitled to the full use of
a lane on the authorized public streets, parking areas and traffic ways of the
City of Lindsay, and no vehicle shall be driven in such a manner as to deprive
any golf cart or off-highway vehicle of the full use of a lane.
   (C)   The driver of a golf cart or off-highway vehicle shall not overtake
and pass in the same lane occupied by the vehicle being overtaken.
   (D)   No driver shall operate a golf cart or off-highway vehicle between
lanes of traffic or between adjacent lines or rows of vehicles.
   (E)   The driver of a golf cart or off-highway vehicle operating the vehicle
on a public street may only cross a multi-lane federal, county or state route
at an intersection controlled by an official traffic control device which stops
traffic from all directions. The driver of a golf cart or off-highway vehicle
may cross a multi-lane road, other than a federal, state, or county route, if
it is required to cross from one portion of a golf course to another portion of
the same golf course. If a golf cart crossing path is provided for transition
between one section of a golf course to another section of the same golf course
across a multi-lane road, the operator shall cross at and within the golf cart
crossing path.
   (F)   The number of occupants in a golf cart or off-highway vehicle shall be
limited to the number of persons for whom factory seating is installed and
provided on the vehicle.
   (G)   Children must be properly seated while a golf cart or off-highway
vehicle is in motion and may not be transported in a reckless or negligent
manner.
   (H)   Except as specifically authorized in this section, golf carts or off-
highway vehicles may not be used for the purpose of towing another golf cart,
off-highway vehicle, trailer or vehicle of any kind including, without
limitation, a person on roller skates, skateboard or bicycle. A person employed
by a golf course may tow a golf cart(s) for the purpose of relocating the cart
(s) from one portion of a golf course to another portion of the same golf
course. A person may use an off-highway vehicle permitted under this chapter
for the purpose of towing a trailer for a hayride on Halloween.
   (I)   Golf cart or off-highway vehicles shall not be operated during
inclement weather or when visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or
other condition, or at any time when there is insufficient light to clearly see
persons or vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.05 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an assumption of
liability by the City of Lindsay for any injuries (including death) to persons,
pets or property which may result from the operation of a golf cart or off-
highway vehicle by an authorized driver.
   (B)   Owners are fully liable and accountable for the action of any
individual that they provide permission to operate and drive a golf cart or
off-highway vehicle, both on personal and/or any authorized public streets,
parking areas and traffic ways. This described liability responsibility
especially applies to personal injuries (including death) or property damage
resulting from golf cart or off-highway vehicle drivers who are minors under
the age of 21 with or without a current and valid driver's license.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.06 REGISTRATION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall operate, cause to be operated or allow the operation
of a golf cart or off-highway vehicle on any public streets, parking areas and
traffic ways unless a valid registration permit has been issued for the golf
cart or off-highway vehicle or the operation is otherwise allowed by law.
   (B)   Application for a permit authorizing the operation of a golf cart or
off-highway vehicle shall be made by a person who owns, leases or otherwise
uses the vehicle. Such application shall be made in writing to the city on a
form designated for that purpose. On such application shall be set forth the
following:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number and state driver's license
number, if applicable, of the permit holder;
      (2)   The street address where the golf cart or off-highway vehicle is
kept, including the particular suite or apartment number, if applicable;
      (3)   The business name used for the premises where the golf cart or off-
highway vehicle is kept, if applicable;
      (4)   The year, make, model, color, vehicle identification number or
serial number if no vehicle identification number has been issued to the
vehicle, and electric or gasoline;
      (5)   The person(s) and location, designated by the city, that inspected
the golf cart or off-highway vehicle, including a certification by said
inspector that the golf cart or off-highway vehicle was inspected and whether
the golf cart or off-highway vehicle complies with the requirements of this
chapter;
      (6)   Statement that all operators are required to be licensed pursuant
to Tex. Transportation Code §§ 521.001(3) and 521.021, as amended, and that all
equipment required herein is installed and will be kept operational during the
permit period;
      (7)   Statement that the registration permit holder and any user shall
indemnify and hold harmless the City of Lindsay, Texas for any and all civil
liability associated with said registration and that the registration permit
holder and any user waives any and all rights to sue the City of Lindsay or
allow subrogation by an insurance company; and
      (8)   Other information which the city may require.
   (C)   The registration permit decal shall be permanently affixed on the left
side of the golf cart or off-highway vehicle in such a manner that it is
clearly visible from 50 feet. The permit decal must not be damaged, altered,
obstructed or otherwise made illegible. If the permit decal is damaged,
altered, obstructed or otherwise made illegible, the permit holder shall apply
for a replacement decal permit and pay the fee for a replacement permit decal
provided in the city fee schedule.
   (D)   The registration permit decal shall only be placed upon the golf cart
or off-highway vehicle for which it was issued.
   (E)   A permit issued to a golf cart or off-highway vehicle shall become
invalid if the golf cart or off-highway vehicle is altered in a manner that
fails to comply with any requirement of this chapter.
   (F)   Registration permits/decals are valid for a period of two years and
each shall expire on December 31 of odd numbered years. The registration permit
fee shall be prorated to the number of yearly quarters remaining in the permit
period. The registration and inspection fees for a registration permit and
decal shall be those fees provided in the city fee schedule. Governmental
entities applying for a registration permit are exempt from any fees.
   (G)   The permit holder shall notify the city if the golf cart or off-
highway vehicle transfers ownership or the address of the normal storage
location of the golf cart or off-highway vehicle has changed within ten working
days of the change. The information shall be submitted on a form designated by
the city.
   (H)   Lost or stolen permit/decals are the responsibility of the owner. A
police report must be filed in the event of a lost or stolen permit/decal. If
no record can be found of a previous application, or the receipt of a permit/
decal, the city may direct the applicant to reapply, and also resubmit any and
all fees necessary before a replacement permit/decal is issued.
   (I)   Any person who operates a golf cart or off-highway vehicle without a
permit or who fails to properly display a city permit/decal will be subject to
all applicable state laws, in addition to being in violation of this chapter.
   (J)   A permit may be revoked at any time by the city, or its designee(s),
if:
      (1)   There is any evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate
a golf cart or off-highway vehicle on any authorized public streets, parking
areas and traffic ways of the City of Lindsay in compliance with this chapter;
      (2)   The owner or driver fails to abide by the rules and regulations of
this chapter; or
      (3)   The owner fails to maintain proof of financial responsibility
during the entire permit registration period.
   (K)   The commission of any of the violations described herein constitutes
evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate a golf cart or off-
highway vehicle on the street within the City of Lindsay.
   (L)   The permit is not transferable. Upon transfer of ownership of the golf
cart or off-highway vehicle to a person who intends to operate it over
authorized public streets, parking areas and traffic ways, the new owner must
register the golf cart or off-highway vehicle and pay the registration permit
fee as provided in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.07 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   When an application is filed for the registration or issuance of a permit
for a golf cart or off-highway vehicle, the golf cart or off-highway vehicle
must be inspected by the agent that is designated by the city to ensure that
the golf cart is in compliance with the requirements of this chapter. If the
golf cart or off-highway vehicle is not in compliance with all of the
applicable requirements of this chapter, a permit shall not be issued for the
vehicle.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.08 PUBLIC SAFETY AND PARK MAINTENANCE PERSONNEL.
   Public safety personnel and park maintenance personnel may operate a golf
cart or off-highway vehicle on any public street, parking area and traffic way
without any further restrictions when the golf cart or off-highway vehicle is
used in the performance of his/her duties or on official business of the city
or on city owned property and city leased property, including but not limited
to, a parade, a festival or other special events.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.09 AGRICULTURAL USE OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES.
   An off-highway vehicle or an all-terrain vehicle used solely in connection
with an agricultural use is exempt from the registration, inspection, and
equipment requirements of this chapter, except as provided in this section. An
off-highway vehicle used solely for agricultural use may be operated on a
public street, a parking area and/or a traffic way in the city so long as:
   (A)   The use is in connection with an agricultural use;
   (B)   The maximum speed limit on the public street is 35 miles per hour or
less;
   (C)   The person has a valid driver's license;
   (D)   The operator attaches to the back of the vehicle a triangular orange
flag that is at least six feet above ground level;
   (E)   The operation of the vehicle occurs in the daytime; and
   (F)   The operation does not exceed a distance of 25 miles from the point of
origin to the destination.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.10 OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   Except as specifically provided in §
72.09, all-terrain vehicles shall not be operated on a public street, a parking
area, and/or a traffic way in the city.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, entity or corporation who violates any provision of
this chapter, as it exists or may be amended, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined a sum not exceeding
$500. Each continuing day’s violation under this chapter shall constitute a
separate offense. The penal provisions imposed under this chapter shall not
preclude the City of Lindsay from filing suit to enjoin the violation. The City
of Lindsay retains all legal rights and remedies available to it pursuant to
local, state, and federal law.
   (B)   Neither allegation or evidence of culpable mental state is required
for the proof of an offense defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 0120-2, passed 2-10-2020)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Stop intersections
      
II.   Yield rights-of-way
      
III.   Speed limits
      
IV.   Speed bumps
      
V.   School zones
      
VI.   Pedestrian crosswalk
SCHEDULE I. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
 
Street Intersection Direction Ord. Date Passed
Street              Intersection         Direction         Ord.     Date Passed
Ash Street*         Fourth Street        South             1013-1   10-14-2013
Ash Street**        Sixth Street         West              0921-5   9-14-2021
Ash Street**        Bezner Street        West              0921-5   9-14-2021
Ash Street**        Main Street          North or south    0921-5   9-14-2021
Ash Street**        J. M. Lindsay        North             0921-5   9-14-2021
                    Boulevard
Bailey Ranch Drive* Clydesdale           East              0921-5   9-14-2021
Bailey Ranch        Highway 82           South             0921-5   9-14-2021
Drive**
Fourth Street**     Willow Street        East or west      0905-1   9-12-2003
Fourth Street**     Oak Street           East              0118-1   1-15-2018
Fourth Street**     Oak Street           West              0118-1   1-15-2018
Fourth Street**     Hickory Street       East              0118-1   1-15-2018
Fourth Street*      Maple Street         East or west      0921-5   9-14-2021
Gieb Street**       Nortman Drive        West              0913-5   9-10-2013
Hermes Street**     Nortman Drive        West              0913-5   9-10-2013
Hickory Street      John Jr. Dr.         West              0921-5   9-14-2021
(FM3108)**
Hickory Street      J. M. Lindsay        North             0921-5   9-14-2021
(FM3108)**          Boulevard
Hickory Street      Main Street (FM1199) East              0921-5   9-14-2021
(FM3108)**
Hickory Street      Henry                West              0921-5   9-14-2021
(FM3108)**
Hickory Street      Katie                West              0921-5   9-14-2021
(FM3108)**
Hickory Street      Fourth               East              0921-5   9-14-2021
(FM3108)**
Hickory Street      Second Street        East              0921-5   9-14-2021
(FM3108)**
Hickory Street      Sycamore Street      West              0921-5   9-14-2021
(FM3108)**
J. M. Lindsay       Nortman Drive        South             0921-5   9-14-2021
Blvd.**
Katie Street*       Hickory Street (FM   West              0905-1   9-12-2003
                    3108)
LISD - north        Knight Drive         East              0921-5   9-14-2021
parking lot**
Lindsay Independent
School District
High School,        Knight Drive                           0113-1   1-14-2013
exiting from north
parking lot*
Main Street**       Ash Street           East or west      0921-5   9-14-2021
Maple Street**      Main Street (FM      North             0921-5   9-14-2021
                    1199)
Maple Street*       Second Street        North or south    04-01-03 4-14-2003
Maple Street**      Third Street         West              0921-5   9-14-2021
Maple Street*       Fourth Street        North or south    0921-5   9-14-2021
                    J.M. Lindsay
Nortman Drive*      Boulevard (Highway   South             0905-1   9-12-2003
                    82)
Oak Street**        Fourth Street        South or north or 0118-1   1-15-2018
                                         east
Pecan Street**      Sixth Street         North or south    01-96;   1-8-1996;
                                                           0905-1   9-12-2003
Pecan Street**      J. M. Lindsay        North             0921-5   9-14-2021
                    Boulevard
Second Street**     Maple Street         East or west      04-01-03 4-14-2003
Sixth Street**      Pecan Street         East or west      0905-1   9-12-2003
Third Street**      Maple Street         West              0118-1   1-15-2018
Walnut Street**     Fourth               North             0118-1   1-15-2018
Willow Street**     Fourth Street        North or south    0905-1   9-12-2003
 
   (A)   *Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of these provisions
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500.
   (B)   **Any person who violates any portion of these provisions is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction be subject to a fine of not more than
$200. Each incident that violates these provisions shall be considered a
separate offense.
SCHEDULE II. YIELD RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
Street Yield Direction Ord. Date Passed
Street                 Yield               Direction      Ord.     Date Passed
Bezner Street          Yield to traffic on East           0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Pecan Street
                       Yield to traffic on
Circle East Street     Hickory Street      East           0921-5   9-14-2021
                       (FM3108)
Circle West Street     Yield to traffic on East           0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Pecan Street
Elm Street             Yield to traffic on North or south 0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Fourth Street
Elm Street             Yield to traffic on North or south 0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Main Street
Elm Street             Yield to traffic on North or south 7-92;    7-6-1992;
                       Sixth Street                       0921-5   9-14-2021
Fourth Street          Yield to traffic on North or south 0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Pecan Street
Maple Street           Yield to traffic on North or south 7-92     7-6-1992
                       Sixth Street
                       Yield to traffic on
Ninth Street           Hickory Street      East           0921-5   9-14-2021
                       (FM3108)
Oak Street             Yield to traffic on North or south 7-92     7-6-1992
                       Sixth Street
Oak Street             Yield to traffic on North or south 0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Main Street
                       Yield to traffic on
Parkview Street        Hickory Street      East           0921-5   9-14-2021
                       (FM3108)
Pecan Street           Yield to traffic on North or south 0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Main Street
Second Street, turning Yield to traffic on Westerly       04-01-03 4-14-2003
north                  Maple Street
Seventh Street         Yield to traffic on East or west   0818-1   8-13-2018
                       Pecan Street
Seventh Street         Yield to traffic on East           0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Ash Street
                       Yield vehicle upon
Seventh Street         approaching Pecan   West           0818-1   8-13-2018
                       Street
Sixth Street           Yield to traffic on West           0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Ash Street
Willow Street          Yield to traffic on North or south 0921-5   9-14-2021
                       Main Street
Willow Street          Yield to traffic on North or south 7-92     7-6-1992
                       Sixth Street
 
   Any person who operates a vehicle in violation of these provisions shall be
fined in an amount not exceeding $500.
SCHEDULE III. SPEED LIMITS.
Street Direction Restricted Area Speed Limit Ord. Date Passed
Street  Direction Restricted Area              Speed Limit Ord.     Date Passed
                  From junction with U.S. 82
                  eastbound lane on the west
FM 1199 South     side of the city (MP 1.008)  40 mph      11-83-02 11-7-1983
                  to 100 ft. north of Sixth
                  Street (MP 1.284); 0.276
                  mile
                  From 100 ft. north of Sixth
FM 1199 South     Street (MP 1.284) to         30 mph      11-83-02 11-7-1983
                  junction with FM 3108 (MP
                  1.861); 0.577 mile
                  From junction with FM 3108
                  (MP 1.861) to junction with
FM 1199 South     U.S. 82 eastbound lane on    40 mph      11-83-02 11-7-1983
                  the east side of the city
                  (MP 2.153); 0.292 mile
                  From junction with U.S. 82
                  eastbound lane on the east
FM 1199 North     side of the city (MP 2.153)  40 mph      11-83-02 11-7-1983
                  to junction with FM 3108 (MP
                  1.861); 0.292 mile
                  From junction with FM 3108
FM 1199 North     (MP 1.861) to 100 ft. north  30 mph      11-83-02 11-7-1983
                  of Sixth Street (MP 1.284);
                  0.577 mile
                  From 100 feet north of Sixth
                  Street (MP 1.284) to
FM 1199 North     junction with U.S. 82        40 mph      11-83-02 11-7-1983
                  eastbound lane on the west
                  side of the city (MP 1.008);
                  0.276 mile
                  From 100 ft. south of the
                  south end of the Elm Fork of
FM 3108 North     the Trinity River Bridge (MP 50 mph      11-83-01 11-7-1983
                  0.520) to 0.050 mile south
                  of junction with FM 1199 (MP
                  0.098); 0.422 mile
                  From 0.050 mile south of
FM 3108 North     junction with FM 1199 (MP    40 mph      11-83-01 11-7-1983
                  0.098) to junction with FM
                  1199 (MP 0.048); 0.050 mile
                  From junction with FM 1199
FM 3108 South     (MP 0.048) to 0.050 mile     40 mph      11-83-01 11-7-1983
                  south of junction with FM
                  1199 (MP 0.098); 0.050 mile
                  From 0.050 mile south of
                  junction with FM 1199 (MP
                  0.098) to 100 ft. south of
FM 1308 South     the south end of the Elm     50 mph      11-83-01 11-7-1983
                  Fork of the Trinity River
                  Bridge (MP 0.520); 0.422
                  mile
 
   (A)   These speeds shall be effective at all hours, except where otherwise
provided herein, when appropriate signs giving notice thereof are erected at
such parts of said highways; provided, however, that nothing in this schedule
shall be construed as attempting to modify or alter the basic rule set forth in
Tex. Trans. Code, Ch. 621 nor to authorize for any class of vehicle in excess
of the maximum values set forth for said class of vehicle in Tex. Trans. Code,
Ch. 621.
   (B)   Where no special hazard exists that requires lower speed for
compliance with said Tex. Trans. Code, Ch. 621, the speed of any vehicle not in
excess of the limits herein established shall be lawful, but any speed in
excess of the limits hereinabove specified and established shall be prima facie
evidence that the speed is not reasonable or prudent and that it is unlawful.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any person to
violate any of the provisions of this schedule, and any person who violates any
such provision shall upon conviction receive the punishment provided in the
penal laws of the state for any person who drives a vehicle upon a public
highway at an unlawful speed.
SCHEDULE IV. SPEED BUMPS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Street Department is hereby authorized to install and
maintain speed bumps on Fourth Street as a speed and traffic control measure
for vehicular traffic. The speed bumps shall be located on either side of the
pedestrian crosswalk across Fourth Street. The western-most speed bump shall be
located approximately 175 feet east of the city limits on Fourth Street and the
easternmost speed bump shall be located approximately 866 feet east of that
same city limits.
      (2)   The speed bumps are to be installed and maintained by the City
Street Department with the supervision of the City Engineer. The city shall
install signs on Fourth Street notifying the drivers of the presence of the
speed bumps and the reduced speed limit.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this schedule by
exceeding the posted speed limits or failing to yield to pedestrians crossing
the street shall be deemed guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the amount specified in the
Uniform Traffic Law of the state.
(Ord. 1006-3, passed 10-9-2006)
SCHEDULE V. SCHOOL ZONES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a school zone in the city along and upon
the following streets and areas:
      (1)   On Seventh Street from Elizabeth Street to Knight Drive;
      (2)   On Knight Drive from Seventh Street to the campus of the Lindsay
School;
      (3)   On Elizabeth Street from Seventh Street to the campus of the
Lindsay School;
      (4)   On Fourth Street from Willow Street to the West Town limits line;
and
      (5)   On Ash Street from Fourth Street to Main Street.
   (B)   During days school is in session, the speed limit of motor vehicles in
said school zone and on the above-listed streets shall be 20 mph from 7:15 a.m.
to 8:30 a.m. and from 3:15 p.m. to 4:15 p.m.
   (C)   The phrase MOTOR VEHICLE is hereby defined to mean any motor vehicle
as defined in Tex. Trans. Code, § 541.201, except EMERGENCY VEHICLES as defined
therein.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this schedule by
exceeding the posted speed limits or failing to yield to pedestrians crossing
the street shall be deemed guilty of a Class C misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the amount specified in the
Uniform Traffic Law of the state.
(Ord. 9-95, passed 9-5-1995; Ord. 1006-1, passed 10-9-2006; Ord. 1108-1, passed
11-10-2008; Ord. 1208-1, passed 12-15-2008)
SCHEDULE VI. PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALK.
   (A)   The City Street Department is hereby authorized to construct a
pedestrian crosswalk across Fourth Street approximately 437 feet east of the
existing city limits of the city, with such crosswalk to be in a manner that
identifies a clearly marked place for pedestrians to cross Fourth Street.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this schedule by
failing to yield to pedestrians crossing the street in the designated crosswalk
shall be deemed guilty of a Class C misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the amount specified in the Uniform
Traffic Law of the state.
(Ord. 1006-2, passed 10-9-2006)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking restricted
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTED.
 
Street     From          To            Side  Time          Ord.     Date Passed
Ash Street Main Street   Sixth Street  East  All           25       11-7-1983
           Beginning at the southwest
           corner of Sixth Street and
           Elizabeth Street, then
           north 130 ft. along the
           west right-of-way of
Elizabeth  Elizabeth Street and              All           1017-5   10-10-2017
Street***  beginning at the southeast
           corner of Sixth Street and
           Elizabeth Street, then
           north 90 feet along the
           east right-of-way of
           Elizabeth Street
Fourth     West city     Western
Street**   limits        boundary line       All           09-93    9-7-1993
                         of Ash Street
                                             7:00 a.m. to
                                             7:00 p.m.,
                                             except
                                             vehicles may
Maple                                        be parked on
Street*    Second Street Fourth Street       the east edge 8-01     8-6-2001
                                             or side for a
                                             period of
                                             time not
                                             exceeding 20
                                             minutes
Second     Between Hickory and Maple                       0818-5   8-13-2018
Street**** Streets
                         South
Seventh    East boundary entrance to   North All           03-01-03 3-3-2003
Street**   of Oak Street Lindsay City
                         Park
 
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   *VEHICLE as used in this schedule means automobiles, trucks,
wagons, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, trailers, campers and all similar
or like vehicles whether defined herein or not.
      (2)   Any person who violates this provision shall be fined up to $500
and each day of such violation shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   **Any person violating the terms of these provisions shall be fined
not less than $25, and not more than $300, and each day of any such violation
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   (1)   ***No person shall park a motor vehicle, as defined by the Tex.
Transportation Code, § 541.201, at any time upon that portion of Elizabeth
Street where signs are erected or curbs are painted giving notice that parking
is prohibited.
      (2)   The Public Works Department is hereby directed to install signage
in support of and in compliance with this provision.
      (3)   Any person who violates any portion of this provision is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall upon conviction be subject to a fine of not more than
$200. Each incident that violates this provision shall be considered a separate
offense.
   (E)   (1)   ****Unlawful for any person to park any truck, or allow the same
to be parked on Second Street as shown above.
      (2)   For purposes of this division, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
         AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES. Fire department trucks, police trucks,
public ambulances for which permits have been issued by the State Board of
Health, emergency trucks of municipal departments or public service
corporations as are designated or authorized by the governing body of an
incorporated city, private trucks operated by volunteer firemen or certified
emergency medical volunteers while answering a fire alarm or responding to a
medical emergency, and trucks owned by the state or by a political subdivision
engaged in emergency utility repair or electric, water, or wastewater services.
         TRUCK. A vehicle that:
            1.   Has dual or tandem rear axles;
            2.   Is a tractor-trailer combination;
            3.   Has a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more; or
            4.   Is more than 20 feet in length from end to end, or more than
seven feet in width at its widest point, or more than seven feet in height at
its highest point.
      (3)   It shall be an affirmative defense to prosecution under division
(E)(1) that:
         (a)   The vehicle is being used to make deliveries or pick-ups from a
residence or business located in the location described in division (E)(1) and
the driver possesses a log book, delivery slip or other evidence of his or her
destination and point of origin for such vehicle;
         (b)   The vehicle is being used or operated by a service, construction
or other business to perform work at a residence or business located in the
location described in division (E)(1);
         (c)   The vehicle is a recreational vehicle which is designed for a
temporary or short-term occupancy for travel, recreational or vacation uses,
including vacation travel trailers, recreational vehicles, tent trailers or
similar vehicles used for temporary portable housing;
         (d)   The vehicle is a personal trailer pulled by a personal vehicle,
such as a horse trailer, stock trailer, dog trailer, motorcycle trailer, boat
trailer, lawn equipment trailer, and gooseneck trailer;
         (e)   The vehicle is a vehicle for street construction, maintenance,
and repair and is engaged in the construction, maintenance, or repair of
streets;
         (f)   The vehicle is used by a public service company in providing or
expanding their service within the city;
         (g)   The vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle responding to a
call;
         (h)   The vehicle is used or operated by the city performing city
business, including transit uses;
         (i)   The vehicle is used by the city's franchisee for the
franchisee's approved activities; or
         (k)   The vehicle is operating with a valid permit issued by the city.
      (4)   Any person violating this division shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of $500
for each offense, except, however, where a different penalty has been
established by state law for such offense, the penalty shall be that fixed by
state law.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   PORTABLE ON DEMAND STORAGE UNITS
      
96.   FAIR HOUSING
      
97.   OIL AND GAS WELLS
      
98.   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Regulating Animals and Fowl
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Keeping exotic or dangerous wild animals and poisonous reptiles
prohibited
   
90.03   Special provisions concerning fowl
   
90.04   Minimum lot size for keeping animals
   
90.05   Running at large prohibited
   
90.06   Fencing required
   
90.07   Keeping swine prohibited
   
90.08   Maintenance of premises
   
90.09   Location of buildings
   
90.10   Exceptions
   
90.11   Noise
Dogs Running At Large
   
90.25   Illegal action
   
90.26   Definition
   
90.27   Ownership
   
90.28   Impoundment
Dangerous Dogs and Other Animals
   
90.45   Dangerous incident report
   
90.46   Determination that animal is dangerous
   
90.47   Knowledge of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal
   
90.48   Requirements of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal
   
90.49   Failure to comply
   
90.50   Hearing
   
90.51   Appeal
   
90.52   Notices
   
90.53   Registration
   
90.54   Dangerous dog or dangerous animal ordered removed from the city
   
90.55   Nuisance declared
   
90.56   Offenses
   
90.57   Defenses
Dogs or Animals That Are a Danger to Persons
   
90.65   Seizure of a dog or other animal causing death of or serious bodily
injury to a person
   
90.66   Hearing
   
90.67   Destruction of dog or other animal
   
90.68   Provocation or location of attack irrelevant
 
   
90.99   Penalty
REGULATING ANIMALS AND FOWL
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any living creature including, but not limited to, dogs, cats, cows,
horses, birds, fish, mammals, reptiles, insects, fowl and livestock, but
specifically excluding human beings.
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY or AUTHORITY. The City of Lindsay.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. Any employee or agent of the city assigned to the
animal control authority or whose responsibilities include animal control.
   AT LARGE. An animal that is not confined to the premises of its owner by a
containment device of sufficient strength and/or height to prevent the animal
from escaping from such premises, and so arranged that the animal will remain
upon such premises when a leash, cord, chain or similar direct physical control
of a maximum length of six feet, and not being kept physically restrained from
leaving the premises of the owner. An animal shall not be considered AT LARGE
when held and controlled by a person by means of a leash or chain of proper
strength and length to control the action of the animal.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal, other than a dog, that:
      (1)   Makes an unprovoked attack on a person or another animal that
causes bodily injury and occurs in a place other than an enclosure in which the
animal was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the animal
from leaving the enclosure on its own; or
      (2)   Commits unprovoked acts in a place other than an enclosure in which
the animal was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the animal
from leaving the enclosure on its own and those acts cause a person to
reasonably believe that the animal will attack and cause bodily injury to a
person or to another animal.
   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
      (1)   Makes an unprovoked attack on a person or another animal that
causes bodily injury and occurs in a place other than an enclosure in which the
dog was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the dog from
leaving the enclosure on its own; or
      (2)   Commits unprovoked acts in a place other than an enclosure in which
the dog was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the dog from
leaving the enclosure on its own and those acts cause a person to reasonably
believe that the dog will attack and cause bodily injury to a person or to
another animal.
   DANGEROUS INCIDENT. An incident in which a dog or another animal:
      (1)   Makes an unprovoked attack on a person or another animal that
causes bodily injury and occurs in a place other than an enclosure in which the
dog or animal was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the dog
or animal from leaving the enclosure on its own; or
      (2)   Commits unprovoked acts in a place other than an enclosure in which
the dog or animal was being kept and that was reasonably certain to prevent the
dog or animal from leaving the enclosure on its own and those acts cause a
person to reasonably believe that the dog or animal will attack and cause
bodily injury to a person or to another animal.
   DANGEROUS WILD ANIMAL. Animals including venomous lizard, poisonous snakes,
constricting snakes, raccoon, skunk, fox, bear, elephant, kangaroo, monkey,
chimpanzee, antelope, deer, lions, tigers, ocelots, cougars, leopards,
cheetahs, jaguars, bobcats, servals, caracals, hyenas, coyotes, jackals,
orangutan, gorillas, baboons or any other wild animal capable of or inclined to
do serious bodily harm to human or other animals or fowl.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Includes, but is not limited to, dogs, cats, pygmy goats,
potbellied pigs and ferrets.
   EXOTIC ANIMAL. Animals that are not normally considered to be domesticated
but may be reasonably kept as pet animals without posing any immediate danger
to persons or other animals including, but not limited to, iguanas, non-
poisonous snakes, non-constricting snakes, hedgehogs, chameleons and
salamanders.
   FOWL. Chickens, turkeys, pheasant, quail, geese, ducks or similar feathered
animals, regardless of age, sex or breed, excluding ostriches, emus and/or
rheas.
   LIVESTOCK. Members of the equine, bovine, bird and ruminant species
including, but not limited to, horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, goats, sheep,
ostriches, emus, rheas and swine, regardless of age, sex or breed.
   NUISANCE. Any thing or animal which is injurious to the life, health or
morals, or indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free
use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property or which renders the ground, water, air or food a hazard or that is or
threatens to become detrimental to the public health.
   POSSESSION. Actual care, custody, control or management of a certain animal.
   PREMISES. A parcel of land of one or more continuous lots owned, leased or
controlled by one or more person.
   PROHIBITED ANIMALS. A dangerous wild animal not normally considered
domesticated, including, but not limited to, venomous lizard, poisonous snakes,
boa, python, constricting snakes, raccoon, skunk, fox, bear, elephant,
kangaroo, monkey, chimpanzee, antelope, deer, lions, tigers, ocelots, cougars,
leopards, cheetahs, jaguars, bobcats, servals, caracals, hyenas, coyotes,
jackals, orangutan, gorillas, baboons or any other wild animal capable of or
inclined to do serious bodily harm to humans or other animals or fowl.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008; Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.02 KEEPING EXOTIC OR DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS AND POISONOUS REPTILES
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to harbor, keep or maintain any wild or exotic animals,
including, but not limited to, a lion, tiger, ocelot, cougar, leopard, cheetah,
jaguar, bobcat, lynx, serval, caracal, hyena, bear, coyote, jackal, baboon,
chimpanzee, orangutan, gorilla, lesser panda, binturong, wolf, ape, elephant,
rhinoceros, or any hybrid of an animal listed, or poisonous reptiles within the
municipal limits.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.03 SPECIAL PROVISIONS CONCERNING FOWL.
   (A)   Keeping of fowl. No person shall maintain fowl in any Single-Family
Zoning District within the municipal limits. No person shall maintain fowl in
any other zoning district within the municipal limits unless the following
requirements are met.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum of five square feet enclosure for each
fowl kept in the municipal limits. An enclosure shall be provided on the
premises which shall be no closer than 100 feet to any dwelling. The enclosure
must be of such construction as will allow for ease in cleaning and airing and
kept in such a manner as not to become offensive to adjacent neighbors or the
public. No more than 25 fowl may be maintained on any single lot or tract.
      (2)   Each premises where fowl are kept shall be required to have built
an impervious (for example, concrete) bin which will act as a storage place for
all manure from such fowl. It shall be covered with an approved cover that will
not allow the ingress or egress of flies and will prevent any water from
entering it. The bin shall be a minimum of 30 cubic feet in size.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of every person raising, keeping or harboring
any fowl to keep the premises, pen or other enclosure in a sanitary condition.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning chickens, turkeys,
ducks, geese, guineas or other fowl to permit such fowl to run at large within
the corporate limits of the municipality.
   (B)   Sale of baby fowl and ducks. It shall be unlawful for any person to
sell or offer for sale, lease, rent or in any way transfer, barter or give away
baby fowl or ducklings as pets or novelties, whether dyed or not dyed, colored
or otherwise artificially treated; provided, however, that this division (B)
shall not be construed to prohibit the display or sale of natural chicks or
ducklings in proper breeding facilities for hatcheries or stores engaged in the
business of selling the same to be raised for legitimate commercial purposes.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 MINIMUM LOT SIZE FOR KEEPING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided in this section, no horse, cow, goat,
sheep or other livestock may be kept on a tract of less than five acres in
size. The ratio of animals to acreage shall be no greater than one animal to
each two acres over the five acre minimum. Thus, no more than two animals are
permitted on a seven acre tract, three animals on a nine acre tract, and the
like.
   (B)   For tracts or parcels of land situated adjacent to the city limits, or
in areas specifically designated as Country Estates, or similar designation, by
the City Council, the keeping of horses or ponies is permitted on tracts or
parcels which contain a minimum enclosed or fence space of one-half acre
(21,780 square feet) for each head of horse or pony kept within the city. Such
one-half acre shall be in addition to the area on which a residence or business
structure is located. Additionally, the tract or parcel shall contain a barn or
shed used for the protection of livestock, which barn or shed may not be
located nearer than 100 feet from the nearest occupied residence whether or not
such residence is presently constructed or occupied or whether or not such
residence is constructed or occupied after the passage of this subchapter.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Officer to cause to be confined
any and all horses, mules, jacks, jennets, cattle, sheep, goats and swine that
may be found running at large upon any street, alley or other public place in
the municipality and cause the same to be placed and kept in a secure enclosure
to be provided for that purpose until the same are disposed of in the manner
hereinafter provided. He or she shall immediately after confining such animal
notify the owner thereof, if known to him or her, or post written notices at
three or more public places in the municipality, describing therein the marks,
brands, color and other description of such animal and giving notice that the
same will be sold five days after the date of such notice unless the owner
shall come forward and reclaim the same.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 FENCING REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on premises under his or her
control any livestock without providing adequate fences or barriers that will
prevent such livestock from damaging shrubbery or other property situated on
adjacent property. Such fences or barriers must also be sufficient to prevent
the animals from escaping.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 KEEPING SWINE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or entity to keep any
swine within the municipal limits.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES.
   All barns, sheds and enclosures in which livestock is kept shall be
maintained in a clean, sanitary manner.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 LOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   No barn, shed or building in which livestock is kept shall be located within
100 feet of a residential structure.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be permissible for livestock to be kept on school-owned
property or private property within the city limits under the supervision and
instruction of a vocational agriculture teacher or 4-H leader who shall
certify, as required, that such animals are maintained in the course of
instruction for the student who shall own and/or raise the animals under the
teacher’s or leader’s supervision.
   (B)   Premises where livestock are kept on either private property or
school-owned property within the city limits under the terms of this subchapter
shall be subject to inspection by the city inspector for sanitation and odor
control.
   (C)   (1)   The prohibitions against keeping of fowl as specified in §
90.03 and against keeping animals as specified in §
90.04 shall not apply to those lots, tracts or parcels of land within the city
where fowl or animals were kept at the date of adoption and passage of this
subchapter.
      (2)   The responsibility for furnishing proof of the right to this
exception shall rest on the property owner, but in no instance shall the
keeping of fowl or animals be allowed where the fowl or animals are kept in an
unsanitary condition, creating a health and safety nuisance.
(Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008)
§ 90.11 NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow an animal to cause a disturbance
by excessive barking or noise-making near the private residence of another.
(Ord. 0921-4, passed 9-14-2021)
DANGEROUS DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS
§ 90.45 DANGEROUS INCIDENT REPORT.
   (A)   A person may report a dangerous incident involving an animal to the
animal control authority. The report must be in writing and made under oath,
and the report must include the following:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of complainant and other
witnesses;
      (2)   Date, time, and location of the incident forming the basis of the
report;
      (3)   Description of the animal(s) involved in the incident;
      (4)   Name, address, and telephone number of the animal owner, if known;
      (5)   A statement of facts upon which such report or application is
based;
      (6)   A statement addressing whether the animal has exhibited dangerous
propensities in past conduct, if known;
      (7)   Any other relevant facts or circumstances; and
      (8)   A Texas state notary stamp and signature.
   (B)   The animal control authority, upon receipt of a report filed under
this section or upon learning of a dangerous incident, shall investigate the
dangerous incident and may issue sworn reports based on the animal control
authority's investigation or observation.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.46 DETERMINATION THAT ANIMAL IS DANGEROUS.
   (A)   If, after performing an investigation of a dangerous incident and
receiving the sworn statements of any witnesses, the animal control authority
determines the animal is a dangerous dog or a dangerous animal, the animal
control authority shall notify the owner in writing of the determination.
   (B)   An owner, not later than the 15th day after the date the owner is
notified that an animal owned by the owner is a dangerous dog or dangerous
animal, may appeal the determination of the animal control authority to the
municipal court of the city. Upon the filing of an appeal under this section,
the municipal court of the city shall schedule a hearing on the appeal in
accordance with §
90.50.
   (C)   To file an appeal under division (B), the owner must:
      (1)   File a notice of appeal of the animal control authority's dangerous
dog or dangerous animal determination with the clerk of the municipal court of
the city, which must include the name, address, and phone number of the owner;
      (2)   Attach a copy of the determination from the animal control
authority; and
      (3)   Serve a copy of the notice of appeal on the animal control
authority by mailing the notice through the United States Postal Service.
   (D)   An appeal filed under division (B) shall be considered effective on
the date it is postmarked by the United States Post Office or hand-delivered to
the clerk of the municipal court of the city.
   (E)   Upon filing an appeal under division (B), the owner shall immediately
deliver the animal to the animal control authority, and the animal control
authority shall provide for the impoundment of the animal in secure and humane
conditions pending an order of disposition from the municipal court of the
city.
   (F)   If the owner fails to deliver the animal as required by division (E),
the court shall issue a warrant authorizing the seizure of the animal. The
animal control authority shall seize the animal or order its seizure and shall
provide for the impoundment of the animal in secure and humane conditions. The
owner may be ordered to pay any cost or fee assessed by the animal control
authority related to the seizure, acceptance, impoundment, or destruction of
the animal. The governing body of the city may prescribe the amount of the
fees. The animal shall remain impounded pending an order of disposition from
the municipal court of the city.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.47 KNOWLEDGE OF A DANGEROUS DOG OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   For purposes of this section, a person learns he or she is the owner of a
dangerous dog or dangerous animal and is subject to the requirements in §
90.48 upon the occurrence of any of the following:
   (A)   The owner knows of a dangerous incident involving the animal;
   (B)   The owner is notified by the animal control authority that the animal
is a dangerous dog or dangerous animal; or
   (C)   The owner is notified by the municipal court that the court has upheld
the animal control authority's determination that the animal is a dangerous dog
or dangerous animal.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.48 REQUIREMENTS OF A DANGEROUS DOG OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   (A)   Not later than the 30th day after a person learns that the person is
the owner of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal:
      (1)   The person shall:
         (a)   Register the animal with the animal control authority for the
city and maintain current registration at all times;
         (b)   Restrain the animal in a secure enclosure inspected and approved
by the animal control authority;
         (c)   Not permit the animal to be outside the secure enclosure unless
the animal is muzzled, in a manner that will not cause injury to the animal or
interfere with its vision or respiration but shall prevent it from biting any
person or animal, and restrained by a substantial chain or leash, no longer
than six feet in length, and a capable person is in immediate physical control
of the leash;
         (d)   Obtain and maintain liability insurance coverage that includes
coverage for animal attacks in an amount of at least $100,000 to cover damages
resulting from an attack by the animal and provide proof of the required
liability insurance coverage animal control authority;
         (e)   Present proof to the animal control authority that the animal
has been sterilized so as to prevent reproduction;
         (f)   Pay any cost or fee assessed by the city in the amount set by
the City Council that is related to the seizure, acceptance, impoundment,
compliance inspection or re-inspection, or destruction of the animal;
         (g)   Microchip the animal and register the animal for its life with a
national registry, and present proof to the animal control authority;
         (h)   Provide the animal with a fluorescent yellow collar visible at
50 feet in normal daylight; and
         (i)   Comply with all applicable regulations, requirements, and
restrictions on dangerous dogs or dangerous animals; or
      (2)   The person shall deliver the animal to the animal control authority
and the animal control authority shall provide for the impoundment of the
animal in humane and secure conditions.
   (B)   Once in compliance with division (A), the owner of a dangerous dog or
dangerous animal shall maintain compliance with division (A) at all times
thereafter.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.49 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   (A)   Any person may make a sworn application to the municipal court of the
city that the owner of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal has failed to comply
with §
90.48 or that a dangerous dog or dangerous animal has attacked a person or
another animal. Upon the filing of a sworn application under this section, the
municipal court of the city shall schedule a hearing on the application in
accordance with §
90.50.
   (B)   A sworn application under this section must include:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of complainant and other
witnesses;
      (2)   Date, time, and location of the incident forming the basis of the
report;
      (3)   Description of the animal(s) involved in the incident;
      (4)   Name, address, and telephone number of the animal owner, if known;
      (5)   A statement of facts upon which the application is based;
      (6)   A statement addressing whether the animal has exhibited dangerous
propensities in past conduct, if known;
      (7)   Any other relevant facts or circumstances; and
      (8)   A Texas state notary stamp and signature.
   (C)   Upon the filing of a sworn application under this section, the
municipal court of the city shall order the animal control authority to seize
the dangerous dog or dangerous animal and shall issue a warrant authorizing the
seizure. The animal control authority shall seize the dangerous dog or
dangerous animal or order its seizure and shall provide for the impoundment of
the dangerous dog or dangerous animal in secure and humane conditions. The
owner may be ordered to pay any cost or fee assessed by the city related to the
seizure, acceptance, impoundment, or destruction of the dangerous dog or
dangerous animal. The governing body of the city may prescribe the amount of
the fees. The dangerous dog or dangerous animal shall remain impounded pending
an order of disposition from the municipal court of the city.
   (D)   If, after a hearing on an application filed under this section, the
municipal court of the city finds that the owner of the dangerous dog or
dangerous animal has failed to comply with §
90.48 or that the dangerous dog or dangerous animal has attacked a person or
another animal, the municipal court of the city shall order the animal control
authority to humanely destroy the dangerous dog or dangerous animal, that the
dangerous dog or dangerous animal be permanently removed from the city, or that
the dangerous dog or dangerous animal be returned to the owner upon proof of
compliance with all of the requirements of §
90.48. No dangerous dog or dangerous animal shall be ordered returned to its
owner more than one time. The court may also order the owner of the dangerous
dog or dangerous animal to pay all costs or fees assessed by the city related
to the seizure, acceptance, impoundment, and destruction of the dangerous dog
or dangerous animal due to the sworn complaint filed under this section.
   (E)   If, after a hearing on an application filed under this section, the
municipal court finds that the owner of the dangerous dog or dangerous animal
has not failed to comply with §
90.48 and that the dangerous dog or dangerous animal has not attacked a person
or another animal, the municipal court shall order that the animal control
authority immediately release the dangerous dog or dangerous animal to the
owner, and the owner shall not be responsible for the costs of seizure or
impoundment of the dangerous dog or dangerous animal due to the sworn complaint
filed under this section.
   (F)   A dangerous dog or dangerous animal ordered to be humanely destroyed
or permanently removed from the city shall remain impounded until the dangerous
dog or dangerous animal is humanely destroyed or until the owner reclaims the
dangerous dog or dangerous animal under §
90.54(A).
   (G)   Notwithstanding any other law or local regulation, a dangerous dog or
dangerous animal shall not be destroyed during the pendency of an appeal under
§
90.51.
   (H)   If the owner of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal seized due to a
sworn application filed under this section cannot be located within 15 days
after the seizure and impoundment of the dangerous dog or dangerous animal, the
dangerous dog or dangerous animal shall be considered abandoned and the city
shall be deemed the owner of the dangerous dog or dangerous animal. The court
shall order the humane destruction of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal
abandoned under this section upon application of the animal control authority,
without a hearing.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.50 HEARING.
   (A)   The municipal court of the city, on receiving notice of appeal under §
90.46(B) or a sworn application under §
90.49(A), shall set a time for a hearing to determine whether the animal is a
dangerous dog or dangerous animal or whether the owner of the animal has
complied with §
90.48 or the dangerous dog or dangerous animal has attacked a person or another
animal. A hearing under this section must be held not later than the tenth day
after the date on which the animal is seized or delivered.
   (B)   The court shall give written notice of the time and place of the
hearing to:
      (1)   The owner of the animal or the person from whom the animal was
seized or who delivered the animal;
      (2)   The person who made the report or filed the application; and
      (3)   The animal control authority.
   (C)   Any interested party, including the city attorney, is entitled to
present evidence at the hearing.
   (D)   At a hearing under this section, the court shall determine the
estimated costs to house and care for the impounded animal during any appeal
process and shall set the amount of bond for an appeal adequate to cover those
estimated costs.
   (E)   An owner or the person who made the report or filed the application
may appeal the decision of the municipal court of the city at a hearing under
this section in the manner described by §
90.51.
   (F)   An animal that is the subject of a proceeding under this section shall
remain impounded throughout the pendency of any appeal of a determination or
order under this section.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.51 APPEAL.
   (A)   A party to an appeal under §
90.46(B) or a hearing on an application filed under §
90.49(A) may appeal the decision to a county court or county court at law in
the county in which the municipal court is located and is entitled to a jury
trial on request.
   (B)   As a condition of perfecting an appeal, not later than the tenth
calendar day after the date the decision is issued by the municipal court, the
appellant must file a notice of appeal and, if applicable, an appeal bond in
the amount determined by the municipal court from which the appeal is taken.
   (C)   Notwithstanding Tex. Gov’t Code § 30.00014, or any other law, a person
filing an appeal from a municipal court under division (A) is not required to
file a motion for a new trial to perfect an appeal.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other law, a county court or a county court at law
has jurisdiction to hear an appeal filed under this section.
   (E)   A decision of a county court or county court at law under this section
may be appealed in the same manner as an appeal for any other case in a county
court or county court at law.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.52 NOTICES.
   All required notices under this subchapter shall be personally delivered or
deposited with the United States Postal Service, sent certified mail, return
receipt requested. When the city mails a notice in accordance with this section
and the United States Postal Service returns the notice as "refused" or
"unclaimed," the validity of the notice is not affected, and the notice is
considered delivered.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.53 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The animal control authority shall annually register a dangerous dog
or dangerous animal if the owner:
      (1)   Presents proof satisfactory to the animal control authority showing
compliance with all the requirements contained in §
90.48(A)(1);
      (2)   Presents proof of current rabies vaccination of the dangerous dog
or dangerous animal, if required by this chapter; and
      (3)   Pays the annual registration fee of $ 100.
   (B)   The animal control authority shall provide to the owner registering a
dangerous dog or dangerous animal a registration tag. The owner of the
dangerous dog or dangerous animal shall attach the current registration tag to
the yellow fluorescent collar that is worn by the dangerous dog or dangerous
animal. The current registration tag shall be displayed on the dangerous dog or
dangerous animal in this manner at all times. The registration of a dangerous
dog or dangerous animal shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance.
   (C)   If an owner of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal sells or moves the
dangerous dog or dangerous animal to a new address, whether in the city or not,
the owner, not later than the tenth day after the date of the sale or move,
shall notify the animal control authority of the new address.
   (D)   If the owner of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal sells or gives a
dangerous dog or dangerous animal to another person, the owner shall notify the
other person at the time of the sale or gift that the animal has been
determined to be a dangerous dog or dangerous animal.
   (E)   A person who buys or receives a dangerous dog or dangerous animal and
continues to keep the animal in the city must register the animal within ten
days after receiving the animal. The new owner shall be issued a registration
tag upon compliance with the requirements of division (A).
   (F)   An owner of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal shall notify the
animal control authority of any attack the dangerous dog or dangerous animal
makes on a person or another animal within five days of the attack.
   (G)   An animal, which has been deemed dangerous in another jurisdiction,
shall not be maintained, kept, or harbored in the city.
   (H)   In the event a dangerous dog or dangerous animal dies, the owner of
the animal shall provide proof to the animal control authority or present
written verification by a licensed veterinarian sufficient to verify the
identity of the deceased animal as a dangerous dog or dangerous animal.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.54 DANGEROUS DOG OR DANGEROUS ANIMAL ORDERED REMOVED FROM THE CITY.
   (A)   The owner of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal that is ordered to be
permanently removed from the city must provide to the animal control authority
the plan for removal of the dangerous dog or dangerous animal from the city and
the name, address, and phone number for the place where the dangerous dog or
dangerous animal will be relocated outside of the city before the dangerous dog
or dangerous animal will be released to the owner. Upon receipt of the required
information, the animal control authority shall release the dangerous dog or
dangerous animal to the owner to be removed from the city. A dangerous dog or
dangerous animal ordered to be permanently removed from the city must be
removed from the city within ten days of the date of the order.
   (B)   If the owner does not provide the information required by division (A)
to the animal control authority and reclaim the dangerous dog or dangerous
animal within ten days of the order of the municipal court of the city, the
dangerous dog or dangerous animal shall be deemed abandoned by the owner and
the city shall be deemed the owner of the dangerous dog or dangerous animal. A
dangerous dog or dangerous animal ordered to be removed from the city under
this subchapter must be removed from the city within ten days of the date of
the order. Upon application by the animal control authority, without a hearing,
the court shall order that a dangerous dog or dangerous animal deemed to be
abandoned under this division be humanely destroyed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to harbor, keep, or have possession
of a dangerous dog or dangerous animal previously ordered to be removed from
the city under this subchapter within the corporate limits of the city.
   (D)   The animal control authority or any officer enforcing this subchapter
shall seize any dangerous dog or dangerous animal that has been previously
ordered to be removed from the city and is found to be at any location within
the corporate limits of the city. Upon seizure, the animal control authority
shall provide for the impoundment of the dangerous dog or dangerous animal in
humane and sanitary conditions.
   (E)   Upon application by the animal control authority, without a hearing,
the court shall order that a dangerous dog or dangerous animal that was
previously ordered to be removed from the city and later found to be in the
city be humanely destroyed.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.55 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance that an owner or other person
harbors, keeps, or maintains a dangerous dog or dangerous animal in the city
unless the owner complies with the requirements of this subchapter and, with
respect to dogs, all state statutes regulating dangerous dogs.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.56 OFFENSES.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person is the owner of a dangerous
dog or dangerous animal and the dangerous dog or dangerous animal makes an
unprovoked attack on another person outside the animal's enclosure and causes
bodily injury to the other person.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person is the owner of a dangerous
dog or dangerous animal and the dangerous dog or dangerous animal makes an
unprovoked attack on another animal while the dangerous dog or dangerous animal
is at large and the attack causes bodily injury or death to the other animal.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person is the owner of a dangerous
dog or dangerous animal and performs an act prohibited or fails to perform an
act required by this subchapter.
   (D)   A person commits an offense if the person is the owner or new owner of
a dangerous dog or dangerous animal and the animal attacks a person or another
animal and the owner fails to notify the animal control authority within five
days of the attack.
   (E)   An offense under divisions (A), (B), (C), or (D) is a class C
misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to but not more than $2,000. Each day that
a violation is committed or continues is a separate offense.
   (F)   If a person is found guilty of an offense under this section, the
court may order that the animal be humanely destroyed immediately, that the
animal be permanently removed from the city, or that the animal be returned to
its owner upon proof of compliance with all of the requirements of §
90.48. If a person is found guilty of an offense under this section for a
second time, the court may order that the animal be humanely destroyed
immediately or that the animal be permanently removed from the city.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.57 DEFENSES.
   (A)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under §
90.56 that the person is a veterinarian, a peace officer, a person employed by
a recognized animal shelter, or a person employed by the state or a political
subdivision of the state to deal with stray animals and has temporary
ownership, custody, or control of the animal in connection with that position.
   (B)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under §
90.56 that the person is an employee of the institutional division of the Texas
Department of Criminal Justice or a law enforcement agency and trains or uses
the dog for law enforcement or corrections purposes.
   (C)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under §
90.56 that the person is a dog trainer or an employee of a guard dog company
under Tex. Occupations Code, Ch. 1702.
   (D)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under §
90.56 that the person injured was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting
the animal.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under §
90.56 that the person injured was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (F)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under §
90.56 that the animal was protecting or defending a person, while in the
person's control, from an unjustified attack or assault.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
DOGS OR ANIMALS THAT ARE A DANGER TO PERSONS
§ 90.65 SEIZURE OF A DOG OR OTHER ANIMAL CAUSING DEATH OF OR SERIOUS BODILY
INJURY TO A PERSON.
   (A)   The municipal court of the city shall order the animal control
authority to seize a dog or other animal and shall issue a warrant authorizing
the seizure:
      (1)   On the sworn complaint of any person, including the city attorney,
or a peace officer, that the dog or animal has caused the death of or serious
bodily injury to a person by attacking, biting, or mauling the person; and
      (2)   On a showing of probable cause to believe that the dog or animal
caused the death of or serious bodily injury to the person as stated in the
complaint.
   (B)   The animal control authority shall seize the dog or animal or order
its seizure and shall provide for the impoundment of the dog or animal in
secure and humane conditions until the court orders the disposition of the dog
or animal.
   (C)   A sworn complaint must be filed in accordance with, and must include
the required information set forth in, §
90.51 of this chapter.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.66 HEARING.
   (A)   The court shall set a time for a hearing to determine whether the dog
or other animal caused the death of or serious bodily injury to a person by
attacking, biting, or mauling the person. The hearing must be held not later
than the tenth day after the date on which the warrant is issued.
   (B)   The court shall give written notice of the time and place of the
hearing to:
      (1)   The owner of the dog or animal or the person from whom the dog or
animal was seized; and
      (2)   The person who made the complaint.
   (C)   Any interested party, including the city attorney, is entitled to
present evidence at the hearing.
   (D)   The court shall order the dog destroyed if the court finds that the
dog or animal caused the death of a person by attacking, biting, or mauling the
person. If that finding is not made, the court shall order the dog or animal
released to:
      (1)   Its owner;
      (2)   The person from whom the dog or animal was seized; or
      (3)   Any other person authorized to take possession of the dog or
animal.
   (E)   The court may order the dog or animal destroyed if the court finds
that the dog or animal caused serious bodily injury to a person by attacking,
biting, or mauling the person. If that finding is not made, the court shall
order the dog or animal released to:
      (1)   Its owner;
      (2)   The person from whom the dog or animal was seized; or
      (3)   Any other person authorized to take possession of the dog or
animal.
   (F)   The court may not order the dog or animal destroyed if the court finds
that the dog or animal caused the serious bodily injury to a person by
attacking, biting, or mauling the person; and
      (1)   The dog or animal was being used for the protection of a person or
person's property, the attack, bite, or mauling occurred in an enclosure in
which the dog or animal was being kept; and
         (a)   The enclosure was reasonably certain to prevent the dog or
animal from leaving the enclosure on its own and provided notice of the
presence of a dog or other animal; and
         (b)   The injured person was at least eight years of age, and was
trespassing in the enclosure when the attack, bite, or mauling occurred;
      (2)   The dog or animal was not being used for the protection of a person
or person's property, the attack, bite, or mauling occurred in an enclosure in
which the dog or animal was being kept, and the injured person was at least
eight years of age and was trespassing in the enclosure when the attack, bite,
or mauling occurred;
      (3)   The attack, bite, or mauling occurred during an arrest or other
action of a peace officer while the peace officer was using the dog for law
enforcement purposes;
      (4)   The dog or animal was defending a person from an assault or
person's property from damage or theft by the injured person; or
      (5)   The injured person was younger than eight years of age, the attack,
bite, or mauling occurred in an enclosure in which the dog or animal was being
kept, and the enclosure was reasonably certain to keep a person younger than
eight years of age from entering.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.67 DESTRUCTION OF DOG OR OTHER ANIMAL.
   The destruction of a dog or animal under this subchapter must be performed
by:
   (A)   A licensed veterinarian;
   (B)   Personnel of a recognized animal shelter or humane society who are
trained in the humane destruction of animals; or
   (C)   Personnel of a governmental agency responsible for animal control who
are trained in the humane destruction of animals.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
§ 90.68 PROVOCATION OR LOCATION OF ATTACK IRRELEVANT.
   Except as provided by §
90.66(F), this subchapter applies to any dog or other animal that causes a
person's death or serious bodily injury by attacking, biting, or mauling the
person, regardless of whether the dog or animal was provoked and regardless of
where the incident resulting in the person's death or serious bodily injury
occurred.
(Ord. 0620-1, passed 6-15-2020)
DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE
§ 90.25 ILLEGAL ACTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or owners of a dog or any member of
the canine family to permit or allow such dog or any member of the canine
family to run at large in the city limits.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or owners of a dog or any member of
the canine family not to keep said animal or animals within an enclosed area or
tied with a suitable leash to prevent such animal or animals from running at
large.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 10-1-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Not completely confined upon the property or premises of
the owner or owners of the dog or any member of the canine family.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 90.27 OWNERSHIP.
   Proof by the city of the ownership of a dog or any member of the canine
family running at large shall constitute a prima facie case of violation of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 90.28 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog or any member of the canine family found within the city limits may
be impounded by order of the City Council at the sole costs and expense of the
owner or owners of such animal or animals or such animal may be destroyed.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 10-1-2001)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §§
90.01 through
90.10 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation.
   (C)   Any person found guilty of violating §§
90.25 through
90.28 shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500. Each day of any such
violation shall constitute a separate offense under §§
90.25 through
90.28.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 10-1-2001; Ord. 0408-2, passed 5-19-2008)
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
Junked Vehicles
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Junked vehicles declared public nuisance; exceptions
   
91.03   Order to abate
   
91.04   Abatement of nuisance
   
91.05   Procedure in event of protest
   
91.06   Owner may acquire possession
   
91.07   Abandonment of sale; severance
Weeds
   
91.20   Restriction
   
91.21   Notification
   
91.22   Action by city
   
91.23   Hearing
   
91.24   Lien
Noise
   
91.40   Noise standards
   
91.41   Prohibited noise
 
   
91.99   Penalty
JUNKED VEHICLES
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Lindsay, Texas.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which does not have lawfully affixed thereto a
valid unexpired Texas license plate or plates and a valid Texas Department of
Public Safety motor vehicle inspection certificate, and the condition of which
is one or more of the following:
      (1)   Wrecked;
      (2)   Partially or wholly dismantled;
      (3)   Inoperative for more than 72 hours if on public property or 30
consecutive days if on personal property, abandoned or discarded; and/or
      (4)   Not within an enclosed building.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
(Ord. 01-87, passed 3-2-1987; Ord. 09032, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 91.02 JUNKED VEHICLES DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE; EXCEPTIONS.
   The location or presence of any junked vehicle or junked vehicles on any
lot, tract or parcel of land or any portion thereof, occupied or unoccupied,
improved or unimproved, within the city shall be deemed a public nuisance and
it shall be unlawful for any person to maintain such a public nuisance or to
permit or allow the same to exist on his or her property or on the property of
another provided that this section shall not apply with regard to a junked
vehicle or junked vehicles: in an enclosed building, a junked vehicle or junked
vehicles or an antique or special interest vehicle owned by a motor vehicle
collection on the premises of a business enterprise operated in a lawful place
and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise; if
these vehicles are maintained in an orderly manner; not a health hazard and are
screened from ordinary public view by appropriate means, including a fence,
trees or shrubbery; a junked vehicle or junked vehicles in an appropriate
storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
city; or to vehicles in operable condition specially adapted or constructed for
racing or operation on privately owned drag strips or raceways.
(Ord. 01-87, passed 3-2-1987; Ord. 09032, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 ORDER TO ABATE.
   (A)   Whenever any such public nuisance exists in the city in violation of
this subchapter, notice of such violation shall be given, as applicable, to:
      (1)   The last known registered owner of such vehicle;
      (2)   Each lienholder of record of such vehicle; and
      (3)   The owner or occupant of the premises upon which such vehicle is
situated, or to all such persons, as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Such notice shall be in writing, shall specify the violation, and its
location, shall specify the corrective measures required, shall provide that
any owner of such vehicle, or owner or occupant of such premises, may protest
the determination that such vehicle is a nuisance by filing written notice
thereof with the City Secretary within ten days, and shall provide that failure
to file such protest, within ten days, shall constitute consent to the removal
and impoundment of such vehicle.
   (C)   A copy of the notice shall be served upon:
      (1)   The owner or occupant of the premises;
      (2)   The owner of the vehicle; and
      (3)   Any lienholder of the vehicle, either by personal service, by
mailing a copy, certified mail, five-day return receipt requested, to the last
known address of such person; or by attaching such copy to the vehicle in
question.
   (D)   If notice is returned undelivered, action to abate the nuisance shall
be continued to a date, not earlier than the eleventh day after the date of the
return.
(Ord. 01-87, passed 3-2-1987; Ord. 09032, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE.
   If the owner or occupant of the premises, or the owner of such vehicle
fails, or the lienholder neglects or refuses to either file notice of protest
or to comply with the terms of any notice issued under the provisions of §
91.03, within ten days after service of such notice by personal service,
mailing or attachment to such vehicle, appropriate city officials shall abate
such public nuisance by removing the junked vehicle from its location and
impounding the same. All expenses incurred in the abatement of such nuisance,
and costs of preserving such vehicle prior to the final disposition, shall be
charged against the owner, or owners, of the junked vehicle payable in the
county and the city shall have a privileged lien on such junked vehicle,
together with 10% interest on the delinquent amount from the date of impounding
such vehicle.
(Ord. 01-87, passed 3-2-1987; Ord. 09032, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 PROCEDURE IN EVENT OF PROTEST.
   (A)   Should any person file a protest, in accordance with §
91.04, of the determination that any vehicle constitutes a nuisance under the
terms of this subchapter, the City Secretary or Mayor shall place such protest
on the agenda of the City Council, give notice to the protestant of the time
and place of the next meeting of the City Council, and stated in such notice
that the City Council will make a determination as to whether the protestant’s
vehicle constitutes a nuisance under the terms of this subchapter. The City
Secretary or Mayor shall place such protest on the agenda of the City Council,
give notice to the protestant of the time and place of the next meeting. The
City Council will make a determination as to whether the protestant’s vehicle
constitutes a nuisance under the terms of this subchapter, and shall invite the
protestant to appear in person or by an attorney and present the reasons for
his or her protest. If, after hearing the evidence and making such
investigation as the Council deems necessary, the Council shall determine that
the vehicle in question constitutes a nuisance, the Council may, by resolution
or order that shall include the vehicle description, vehicle identification
number and license plate, order the same removed from the premises, or, it may
recommend prosecution in Municipal Court in accordance with the penal
provisions hereof or both removal and prosecution.
   (B)   On written application by the person aggrieved filed with, and at the
same time as the protest, the City Council may grant to such person a permit to
allow such person 90 days to comply with this subchapter. The fee for such
permit shall be $5 per vehicle. No more that three such permits shall be issued
to any one person. Applications for such permits after the initial one shall be
filed with the City Council and heard by the Council in the same manner as
protests.
(Ord. 01-87, passed 3-2-1987; Ord. 09032, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 91.06 OWNER MAY ACQUIRE POSSESSION.
   The bona fide owner of any such junked vehicle or junked vehicles which have
been impounded in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter may acquire
possession of such junked vehicle or junked vehicles by paying the costs of
abatement as shall have been computed in accordance with §
91.05 and by paying a reasonable storage charge based upon the period of time
such junked vehicle or vehicles have been impounded.
(Ord. 01-87, passed 3-2-1987; Ord. 09032, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 91.07 ABANDONMENT OF SALE; SEVERANCE.
   (A)   In the event that possession by the bona fide owner thereof of any
junked vehicle or junked vehicles impounded in accordance with the provision
hereof is not acquired within 90 days from the date of such impoundment, such
junked vehicle or junked vehicles shall be deemed to have been abandoned and
may be sold by the city.
   (B)   Proceeds from any such sale shall first be applied to reduce or
satisfy the storage charges computed in accordance with the above section, and
any amount or such proceeds then remaining shall be applied to reduce or
satisfy the lien perfected.
   (C)   Such lien shall remain in full force and effect with respect to any
portion of the costs of abatement remaining unsatisfied.
(Ord. 01-87, passed 3-2-1987; Ord. 09032, passed 9-8-2003)
WEEDS
§ 91.20 RESTRICTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or controlling any premises
within the city, whether occupied or unoccupied, to suffer, allow or permit
weeds or grass to grow thereon to a greater height than 12 inches on an average
or in rank profusion, or to leave such weeds or grass upon any premises after
the same are cut, or to fail to keep the lot free from rubbish, brush and any
other objectionable, unsightly or unsanitary matter of whatever nature, and it
shall be deemed a nuisance dangerous to the public health and to the public
safety as a fire hazard, for any premises to have weeds or grass above such
height, or in rank profusion, or cut and left thereon. Premises zoned and
classified as agriculture district are exempt from the provisions of this
section.
(Ord. 02-88, passed 4-4-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 NOTIFICATION.
   Upon being informed of any premises in violation of the terms of this
subchapter, the Mayor or his or her designee shall inspect the same to
determine the facts and if a nuisance exists thereon as defined in §
91.20, the Mayor or his or her designee shall notify the owner in writing and
direct that said weeds or grass be cut and removed or such other unsanitary
matter be remedied within ten days of such notice. (The ten-day notice to begin
the date the notice is postmarked or the second date the notice is published.)
The notice may be in writing or by letter addressed to such owner at his or her
post office address or by publication as many as two times within ten
consecutive days.
(Ord. 02-88, passed 4-4-1988) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 ACTION BY CITY.
   If the owner fails or refuses to cut or remove the weeds or grass from his
or her premises or remedy the unsanitary condition within ten days as directed,
or if personal service may not be had as aforesaid, or the owner’s address be
not known, the Mayor or his or her designee shall immediately make arrangements
to cut and remove the weeds from the premises or remedy the unsanitary
condition and shall keep a careful account of all expenses incurred, reporting
in writing to the city the total cost of the work.
(Ord. 02-88, passed 4-4-1988)
§ 91.23 HEARING.
   (A)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall certify the order and
performance of the work together with the total cost to the City Secretary, who
shall issue either a personal notice or a notice to be published in a newspaper
of general circulation within the city, notifying the owner of the premises to
appear before the City Council for a hearing on a date to be fixed by the City
Council, such date being at least ten days after the notice, and to show cause
why the said charge or cost shall not be imposed against said owner and his or
her premises as a special assessment.
   (B)   If it appears to the Council upon the hearing that the said charge is
reasonable and covers only the cost and expense required to abate the nuisance,
the City Council shall levy a special assessment against the lot, tract or
parcel of land upon which the nuisance existed and was abated, and the special
assessment shall constitute a lien against the premises and a personal charge
against the owner.
(Ord. 02-88, passed 4-4-1988)
§ 91.24 LIEN.
   (A)   In addition, the Mayor or his or her designee shall file with the
County Clerk a statement of any such expenses and the city shall have a
privileged lien thereon, second only to tax liens and liens for street
improvements, to secure the expenditure so made, and 10% interest on the amount
from the date of filing.
   (B)   For any such expenditure and interest, as aforesaid, suit may be
instituted and recovery and foreclosure had in the name of the city; and the
statement so made, as aforesaid, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima
facie proof of the amount expended in any such work or improvements.
(Ord. 02-88, passed 4-4-1988)
NOISE
§ 91.40 NOISE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following noise standards, unless otherwise specifically
indicated, shall apply to all property with a designated land use district:
 
Land Use District Time of Day             Energy Equivalent Sound Levels (leq)
Residential       10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 52 dB(A)
                 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 62 dB(A)
Office, retail    10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. 62 dB(A)
Commercial        7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 67 dB(A)
Industrial        Anytime                 70 dB(A)
 
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person at any location in the city to
create any noise, or to allow the creation of any noise on property owned,
leased, occupied or otherwise controlled by such person, which causes the noise
level when measured on or beyond the boundaries of the property on which the
noise is produced, or measured within any other residential dwelling unit or
commercial space, to exceed:
      (1)   The noise standard in any measurement period not less than 30
minutes.
      (2)   The noise standard, plus 15 dB(A) in any one minute average of a
measurement period.
      (3)   The noise standard, plus 20 dB(A) at any time in a measurement
period.
   (C)   For the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this section, a
measurement period shall not be less than 30 minutes.
   (D)   The sound level limits established in division (A) of this section for
residential districts shall be applicable to all quiet zones.
   (E)   If the ambient sound level exceeds the resulting standards, the
ambient level shall be the standard.
   (F)   If the intruding noise source is continuous and cannot reasonably be
discontinued or stopped for a time period whereby the ambient sound level can
be determined, the measured sound level obtained while the source is in
operation shall be compared directly to the applicable standard in the
receiving land use district on which the sound is measured.
   (G)   Correction for character of sound. For any stationary source of sound
which emits a pure tone, cyclically varying sound or repetitive impulsive
sound, the limits set forth in division (A) shall be reduced by five dB(A).
Notwithstanding compliance with this section, it shall be a violation of this
subchapter for any person to operate or permit to be operated any stationary
source of sound which emits a pure tone, cyclically varying, or repetitive
impulsive sound which creates a noise disturbance.
   (H)   When the land use district designation of the property on which the
source of sound originates differs from the designation of the property on
which the sound is measured, the maximum permissible sound level of the more
restrictive land use district designation shall apply.
   (I)   For sound emitted on public property, the measurement distance shall
be 50 feet (15 meters), and the sound level limit for the appropriate land use
district shall apply.
(Ord. 0921-4, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 91.41 PROHIBITED NOISE.
   (A)   No person shall allow, make or cause to be made any unreasonably loud
or disturbing noise in the city which is offensive to an adult person within
the city, which noise renders the enjoyment of life or property uncomfortable
or interferes with public peace and comfort, nor shall any person allow, make
or cause to be made any unreasonably loud or disturbing noise in the city.
   (B)   Owning, keeping, possessing or harboring any animals that by noise
making disturb or interfere with the peace, comfort or repose of neighboring
residents or that cause a noise disturbance is declared to create unreasonably
loud or disturbing noises in violation of this chapter. The provisions of this
subchapter shall apply to all public and private facilities, including any
animal shelter or commercial kennel, which hold or treat animals.
(Ord. 0921-4, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   The violation of any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.07 relating to the maintaining of a public nuisance as described herein or
in permitting or allowing such public nuisance to exist shall be punished by a
fine not exceeding $200 and each day’s violation thereof shall be and is hereby
ordered declared to be a distinct and separate offense and punishable as such.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate a provision of §§
91.20 through
91.24 or who fails to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $200.
Each such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense of each and every
day or portion thereof during which any violation of §§
91.20 through
91.24 is committed or continued, and upon such conviction of any such
violation, such person shall be punished within the limits provided above.
      (2)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not
preclude the Attorney for the city from instituting an appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent any unlawful accumulation of an unsanitary condition or
an action to restrain, correct or abate a violation of §§
91.20 through
91.24.
(Ord. 01-87, passed 3-2-1987; Ord. 02-88, passed 4-4-1988; Ord. 09032, passed
9-8-2003)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fireworks
   
92.01   Definition
   
92.02   Prohibition
Burn Ban
   
92.15   Purpose
   
92.16   County burn ban
   
92.17   City burn ban
   
92.18   Emergency city burn ban
   
92.19   Prohibition
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIREWORKS
§ 92.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORK. Includes any combustible or explosive composition, or any
substance or combination of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, explosion, deflagration
or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy pistols, toy cannons,
toy canes or toy guns in which explosives are used, the type of unmanned
balloons which require fire underneath to propel the same, firecrackers,
torpedoes, skyrockets, Roman candles, Daygo bombs, sparklers or other fireworks
of like construction and any fireworks containing any explosive or flammable
compound, or any tablets or other device containing any explosive substance,
except that the term FIREWORKS shall not include model rockets and model rocket
engines, designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero
models and shall not include toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices
in which paper and/or plastic caps manufactured in accordance with the United
States Department of Transportation regulations for packing and shipping of toy
paper and/or plastic caps are used and toy paper and/or plastic caps
manufactured as provided therein, the sale and use of which shall be permitted
at all times. Each package containing toy paper and/or plastic caps offered for
retail sale shall be labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap.
(Ord. 81-103, passed 11-2-1981)
§ 92.02 PROHIBITION.
   No person, firm, copartnership or corporation shall offer for sale, expose
for sale, sell at retail, keep with intent to sell at retail, or use or explode
any fireworks within the city limits.
(Ord. 81-103, passed 11-2-1981) Penalty, see §
92.99
BURN BAN
§ 92.15 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter provides restrictions during specific drought-related
conditions on the lawful burning outdoors in order to protect public health,
safety and welfare and to preserve public and private property. This ordinance
provides for a City burn ban (as defined herein) inside the city limits and
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city to coincide with a county burn ban
that has been effectuated by Cooke County for the same duration and scope of
activities and at other times when the City deems it appropriate.
(Ord. 0818-3, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.16 COUNTY BURN BAN.
   By and through the enactment of this subchapter, the City Council recognizes
and acknowledges any prohibition on outdoor burning effectuated by Cooke
County, Texas. For purposes of this subchapter, the phrase county burn ban
includes a local disaster declaration or resolution promulgated by the Cooke
County Judge or effectuated by the Cooke County Commissioners Court, including
(but not limited to) actions in the form of an order or proclamation, that
limits or prohibits outdoor burning.
(Ord. 0818-3, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.17 CITY BURN BAN.
   (A)   There shall be throughout the city limits and extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city a prohibition on outdoor burning effectuated by the
City Council, by and through this subchapter, to run concurrently with a county
burn ban (a “city burn ban”). A City burn ban shall be in effect within the
city limits and the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city immediately upon
the declaration of a county burn ban.
   (B)   The City Council is authorized to, as it deems appropriate and when it
deems appropriate, issue a city burn ban within the city limits and
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city prohibiting outdoor burning to
protect the public health, safety and welfare and to preserve public and
private property.
(Ord. 0818-3, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.18 EMERGENCY CITY BURN BAN.
   (A)   The Mayor is authorized to issue an emergency city burn ban to
prohibit outdoor burning within the city limits and extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city as he or she deems appropriate to protect the public
health, safety and welfare and to preserve public and private property. An
emergency city burn ban issued by the Mayor shall be in effect immediately upon
issuance and continue for a period of 14 days or until acted upon by the City
Council.
   (B)   The City Council is authorized to take action to rescind or continue
an emergency city burn ban issued by the Mayor as it deems appropriate. If
action is not taken by the City Council on the emergency city burn ban, the
emergency city burn ban expires 14 days after it is issued.
(Ord. 0818-3, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.19 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city limits or the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city to perform any action in violation of
the terms, conditions or restrictions of a county burn ban, city burn ban, or
emergency city burn ban as defined in this subchapter.
(Ord. 0818-3, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, copartnership or corporation violating the
provisions of §§
92.01 and
92.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $200.
(Ord. 81-103, passed 11-2-1981)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   Enforcement provisions
   
93.03   Prohibition of damage to park property or animals
   
93.04   Use of city parks generally
   
93.05   Additional regulations; hours of use
   
93.06   Fees
   
93.07   Park hours
 
   
93.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Rental agreement
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The word
“shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   PARK. A public park, playground, recreation center or any other area in the
city owned or used by the city and devoted to active or passive recreation.
   PARKS COMMISSIONER. The Council member appointed by the Mayor to serve as
the Parks and Recreation Commissioner.
   VEHICLE. Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor-powered, animal-drawn or
self-propelled. The term shall include any trailer in tow of any size, kind or
description. Exception is made of baby carriages and vehicles in the service of
the city park.
(Ord. 0105-2, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 93.02 ENFORCEMENT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Enforcement officials. The Parks Commissioner, Mayor and city law
enforcement officers shall, in connection with their duties imposed by law,
diligently enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Removal from park. The Parks Commissioner, Mayor and city law
enforcement officers shall have the authority to eject from the park any person
acting in violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Seizure of property. The Parks Commissioner, Mayor and city law
enforcement officers shall have the authority to seize and confiscate any
property, thing or device in the park used in violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 0105-2, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 93.03 PROHIBITION OF DAMAGE TO PARK PROPERTY OR ANIMALS.
   (A)   Buildings and other property. No person shall:
      (1)   Willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with, or displace
or remove any buildings, bridges, tables, benches, barbeque pits, railings,
paving or paving material water lines or other public utilities or part or
appurtenances thereof, signs, notices or placards, whether temporary or
permanent, monuments, stakes, posts or other boundary markers or other
structures or equipment, facilities or park property or appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal;
      (2)    Fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat
and sanitary condition; or
      (3)   Dig or remove any soil, rocks, stones, trees, shrubs, or plants or
materials or make any excavation by tool, equipment or other means or agency
without prior approval by the Mayor or City Council.
   (B)   Trees, shrubbery and lawns.
      (1)   No person shall damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree
or plant or injure the bark or pick the flowers or seeds of any type or plant
without prior approval by the Mayor or City Council.
      (2)   A person shall not dig or otherwise disturb grass areas, or injure
or impair the natural beauty or usefulness of any area without prior approval
by the Mayor or City Council.
   (C)   Wild animals. No person shall:
      (1)   Hunt, molest, harm, frighten, kill, trap, chase, tease, shoot or
throw missiles at any animal, reptile or bird. Exceptions to the foregoing are
made in that snakes known to be poisonous and deadly, such as rattlesnakes,
moccasins, copperheads, coral snakes or other deadly reptiles, may be killed on
sight; and park workers may trap a skunk or similar small animal that is on the
premises repeatedly; or
      (2)    Give, offer or attempt to give to any animal any known noxious
substance.
(Ord. 0105-2, passed 1-10-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 USE OF CITY PARKS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Pollution of waters. No person shall throw, discharge or otherwise
place or cause to be placed in the water of any fountain, pond, lake or other
body of water in or adjacent to any park any substance, matter or thing, liquid
or solid, which will or may result in the pollution of such waters.
   (B)   Refuse and trash. No person shall bring in or dump, deposit or leave
any bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper, boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste,
garbage or refuse or other trash. No such refuse or trash shall be placed in
any water in any park or left anywhere on the grounds thereof but shall be
placed in the proper receptacles, where these are provided. Where receptacles
are not so provided, all such rubbish or waste shall be carried away from the
park by the person responsible for its presence and properly disposed of
elsewhere.
   (C)   Use of picnic areas and barbeque pits.
      (1)   No person shall violate the regulations and use of the individual
barbeque pits together with tables and benches, which follow generally the rule
of “first come, first served”.
      (2)    No person shall use any portion of the picnic areas or any other
buildings or structures therein for the purposes of holding picnics to the
exclusion of other persons, except for reservations made through City Hall and
payment of a deposit. The deposit shall be refunded if the park is left in a
clean and neat manner.
      (3)   No person shall leave a picnic area before the fire is completely
extinguished and before all trash in the nature of boxes, papers, cans,
bottles, garbage and other refuse is placed in disposal receptacles, where
provided.
   (D)   Vehicle traffic.
      (1)   Operation confined to roads. No person shall drive any vehicle on
any area except the designated park roads or parking areas or such other areas
as may, on occasion, be specifically designated as temporary parking areas by
the Parks Commissioner, Mayor or City Council.
      (2)    Parking. No person shall:
         (a)   Park a vehicle in other than an established or designated
parking area, and such use shall be in accordance with the posted directions
thereat; and
         (b)   Double park a vehicle on any road or parkway unless directed by
a city official.
   (E)   Hunting and firearms in the park.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, trap or pursue wildlife at any time.
      (2)    No person shall shoot, use, carry or possess firearms or any other
description of air rifles, spring guns, slings, bows or any other form of
weapons potentially dangerous to wildlife or human safety, or any instrument
that can be loaded with and fire blank cartridges or any kind of trapping
device, except with the permission of city officials.
   (F)   Fireworks and explosives. No person shall bring or have in his or her
possession or set off or otherwise cause to explode or discharge or burn any
firecrackers, torpedo, rocket or other fireworks of explosive or inflammable
material or discharge them or throw them into any such area from land or
highway adjacent thereto. This prohibition shall not apply to a fireworks
display where special permission for the same has been made through City Hall.
   (G)   Fires.
      (1)   No person shall build or attempt to build a fire, except in such
areas and under such regulations as made or designated by the Parks
Commissioner or Mayor.
      (2)    No person shall drop, throw or otherwise scatter lit matches,
burning cigarettes, cigars, tobacco paper or other inflammable material within
any park area.
   (H)   Soliciting. No person shall solicit alms or contributions for any
purpose, whether public or private, without written permission from City Hall.
   (I)   Vending and peddling. No person shall expose or offer for sale any
article or thing, nor shall he or she station or place or stand a cart or
vehicle for the transportation, sale or display of any such article or thing.
Exception is herein made as to any regularly licensed concessionaire acting by
and under the authority and regulation of the City Council or Mayor.
   (J)   Advertising. No person shall announce, advertise or call the public’s
attention, in any way, to any article or service for sale or hire.
   (K)   Signs. No person shall paste, glue, tack or otherwise post any sign,
placard, advertisement or inscription whatsoever, nor shall any person erect or
cause to be erected any sign whatever on any public land or highway or on roads
adjacent to the park without prior approval from City Hall.
(Ord. 0105-2, passed 1-10-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS; HOURS OF USE.
   (A)   The hours of use and admittance in and to J.M. Lindsay Park in the
city and the use of any facilities or equipment therein by any citizen or by
any person shall be as recommended and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the grounds of the
park and/or to use any of the facilities, playgrounds or other equipment
therein for any purpose except during the hours determined by the City Council,
except for use of the parking lot for local Ride Share parking.
   (C)    An exception to this section may be made by the city as follows: any
recognized civic or fraternal or other type of educational society may be
issued, on request, permission to extend the hours of use.
(Ord. 0105-2, passed 1-10-2005) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 FEES.
   (A)   Security deposit and rental fees for use of the pavilion; security
deposit and rental fees for use of pavilion and kitchen; security deposit and
rental fees for residence and non-residence are:
 
Pavilion                               Pavilion and Kitchen
                 Resident Non-Resident Resident Non-Resident
Rental fee       $50/day  $100/day     $150/day $300/day
Security deposit $50/day  $100/day     $150/day $300/day
 
   (B)   An exception to this section may be made by the city as follows: any
recognized civic or fraternal or other type of educational society may have
their security deposit and rental fees waived.
(Ord. 0518-1, passed 5-14-2018) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.07 PARK HOURS.
   (A)   J.M. Lindsay Park shall be closed:
      (1)   From every Sunday at 12:00 a.m. until the following Monday at 6:00
a.m.;
      (2)   From every Monday at 12:00 a.m. until the following Tuesday at 6:00
a.m.;
      (3)   From every Tuesday at 12:00 a.m. until the following Wednesday at
6:00 a.m.;
      (4)   From every Wednesday at 12:00 a.m. until the following Thursday at
6:00 a.m.;
      (5)   From every Thursday at 12:00 a.m. until the following Friday at 6:
00 a.m.;
      (6)   From every Friday at 12:00 a.m. until the following Saturday at 6:
00 a.m.; and
      (7)   From every Saturday at 12:00 a.m. until the following Sunday at 6:
00 a.m.
   (B)   The Mayor of the city, shall, upon written request from any person,
have the power and authority to alter the above established closing hours for
the J.M. Lindsay Park for special events or holidays; the granting or denying
any such requests shall be within the sole discretion of the Mayor; in the
event such request is granted, it shall be in writing, dated and signed by the
Mayor.
(Ord. 4-94, passed 4-19-1994) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any person to
violate any of the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.05, and any person who violates any such provision shall, upon conviction,
be fined up to $500 and in addition thereto, the persons convicted shall be
subject to any provisions of the penal laws of the state, if any violations are
subject to such penal laws. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for
each incident or each violation of §§
93.01 through
93.05.
   (C)   Any person who is on the grounds and premises of the J.M. Lindsay Park
during the closing hours hereinabove provided in §
93.07 shall be guilty of violating §
93.07 and shall be fined not more than $300; each violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a misdemeanor for any person to
violate any of the provisions of §
93.06, and any person who violates any such provision shall, upon conviction,
be fined up to $500 and in addition thereto, the persons convicted shall be
subject to any provisions of the penal laws of the state, if any violations are
subject to such penal laws. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for
each incident or each violation of §
93.06.
(Ord. 0105-2, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 0518-1, passed 5-14-2018)
APPENDIX A: RENTAL AGREEMENT
RENTAL AGREEMENT
J.M. LINDSAY PARK FACILITIES
Rental Date(s):__________________________      Rental Time:
__________________________
Purpose for Rental:
_____________________________________________________________________
Facility Reserved:
Pavilion________________      Kitchen_______________________________
               PARK CLOSES AT MIDNIGHT
 
                 Pavilion             Pavilion and Kitchen
                 Resident Nonresident Resident Nonresident
Rental Fee:       $50/day  $100/day    $150/day $300/day
Security Deposit: $50/day  $100/day    $150/day $300/day
 
Fees are due at the time of reservation. This agreement includes the new
restrooms when renting the kitchen. Keys will be issued to renter based on
facilities being used. Security deposit will be returned to renter after the
city has confirmed that no damages have occurred and keys have been returned.
KEY(S) MUST BE RETURNED BY 4:00 P.M. THE FIRST DAY CITY HALL IS OPEN AFTER THE
EVENT OR SECURITY DEPOSIT WILL BE FORFEITED. Renter will be responsible for any
damages to J.M. Lindsay Park facilities and will answer to the city according
to Ord. 0105-2 which constitutes a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to
$500 for any person who violates any provisions of said Ord. 0105-2. J.M.
Lindsay Park is closed from midnight until 6:00 a.m. the following day.
All picnic tables must be moved back to their original locations. Do not drive
stakes into the ground anywhere on park grounds. Trash should be picked up and
placed in the trash barrels provided in the park.
After 5:00 p.m. or weekends, please contact the Parks Commissioner, at (940)
736-9850 for any assistance needed regarding any problems encountered in the
park,
Date:
_______________________________         _____________________________________
Mailing Address:                        Renter’s signature
___________________________________         Telephone:
____________________________
___________________________________         DL State and Number:
___________________
                        Date of Birth:__________________________
Security Deposit Received: Date: __________      Amount
$_____________________________
Ordinance Given to Renter: Date: ___________________________________
Key Returned: Date: ___________   Time:___________   Park In Order:
___________   Park Clean: ___________
Security Deposit Returned: Date: _____________   Amount: $_____________   Check
No. __________________
Comments:
____________________________________________________________________________________
(Ord. 0105-2, passed 1-10-2005)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
94.01   Obstructions
   
94.02   Municipal maintenance agreement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if, without legal privilege or authority,
he or she intentionally, knowingly or recklessly:
      (1)   Obstructs a highway, street, sidewalk, waterway, aisle, hallway,
entrance or exit to which the public or a substantial group of the public has
access, or any other place used for the passage of persons, vehicles or
conveyances, regardless of the means of creating the obstruction and whether
the obstruction arises from his or her acts alone or from his or her acts and
the acts of others; or
      (2)   Disobeys a reasonable request or order to move issued by a person
the actor knows to be or is informed is a peace officer, a firefighter or a
person with authority to control the use of the premises:
         (a)   To prevent obstruction of a highway or any of those areas
mentioned in division (A)(1) above; or
         (b)   To maintain public safety by dispersing those gathered in
dangerous proximity to a fire, riot or other hazard.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HIGHWAY and STREET. Includes any portion or lane of a highway or street.
      OBSTRUCT. To render impassable or to render passage unreasonably
inconvenient or hazardous.
(Ord. 02-89, passed 4-4-1989) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 MUNICIPAL MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The public convenience, safety and necessity of the city and the
people of the city require said project (state highway routes) be adequately
maintained.
   (B)   The state be and is hereby authorized to enter upon and maintain said
maintenance project.
   (C)   The Mayor, or proper city official of the city, be and is hereby
authorized to execute for and on behalf of the city an agreement with the state
in accordance with and for the purpose of carrying out the terms and provisions
of this order, in the form attached to the ordinance codified herein, made a
part hereof, and marked “Municipal Maintenance Agreement”. The City Secretary
is hereby directed to attest the agreement and to affix the proper seal of the
city thereto.
(Ord. 08-62, passed 8-7-1962)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A person found guilty of an offense under §
94.01 shall be fined up to $200 for each offense.
(Ord. 02-89, passed 4-4-1989)
CHAPTER 95: PORTABLE ON DEMAND STORAGE UNITS
Section
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Regulation of portable storage containers
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IMPROVED SURFACE. A surface area providing a stable base in an area not
subject to water run-off and/or flooding.
   PODS. An acronym and common name for portable on demand storage units.
   PORTABLE ON DEMAND STORAGE UNIT. Any box-like container transported by
truck, tractor or other vehicle for movement from place to place when used for
a temporary storage device. The storage capacity would be more than 216 cubic
feet and normally would be stored off-site.
(Ord. 0816-1, passed 9-27-2016)
§ 95.02 REGULATION OF PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or suffer the
placement of any PODS or similar device in or upon any street, highway,
roadway, designated fire lane or sidewalk in the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, place or suffer the
placement of any PODS or similar devices upon any lot or property in the city
other than on an improved surface.
   (C)   No person shall install, deposit, park or leave any POD or similar
devices on any property within the city without first obtaining a permit from
the City Clerk. A permit fee of $100 would be required. The permit shall be for
a time period not to exceed 90 days during which time the unit may be kept on
the property. The 90 days will include loading and unloading time. No more than
one permit may be issued for any lot or parcel of property in any 12-month
period. If the person elects to move the POD to an off-site storage facility,
the loading period shall not exceed 30 days. An additional permit will be
required if the POD is not returned, unloaded within 30 days, within 12 months
of the permit date.
   (D)   Any PODS or similar devices which are installed, placed, deposited or
parked on any property shall be so situated as to minimize the potential for
interference with sight lines for motorists on adjoining streets and nearby
driveways and, if possible, to the rear of the front building line of the
principal building.
   (E)   The maximum allowable size for a portable storage container in a
residential district is 160 square feet with an overall length not to exceed 20
feet.
   (F)   Not more than one portable container shall be allowed in the front
yard of any lot on which a single-family dwelling has been constructed.
(Ord. 0816-1, passed 9-27-2016) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall intentionally, knowingly, recklessly or with criminal
negligence violate any provision of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an amount not to exceed
$500. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 0816-1, passed 9-27-2016)
CHAPTER 96: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing
   
96.03   Discrimination in the financing of housing
   
96.04   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services
   
96.05   Exemptions and exclusions
   
96.06   Complaints
   
96.07   Investigation
   
96.08   Cumulative legal effect
   
96.09   Unlawful intimidation
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words so used in the present tense include the
future, words in the masculine gender include the feminine, words in the plural
number include the singular, and words in the singular number include the
plural.
   DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE. An act that is unlawful under §§
96.02,
96.03 or
96.04.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as,
or designed and intended for occupancy as a residence by one of more families
or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
   FAMILY. Includes a single individual.
   PERSON. Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees,
fiduciaries and any other organization or entity of whatever character.
   TO RENT. Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984)
§ 96.02 DISCRIMINATION IN THE SALE OR RENTAL OF HOUSING.
   Except as exempted by §
96.05, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin;
   (B)   Discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or privileges
of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or facilities
in connection therewith, because of race, color, sex, religion or national
origin;
   (C)   Make, print, publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement regarding the sale or rental of a dwelling
that indicates any preference limitation or discrimination based on race,
color, sex, religion or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination;
   (D)   Represent to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or
rental when such dwelling is in fact so available;
   (E)   For profit or with the hope or expectation of profit, induce or
attempt to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations
regarding the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or
persons of a particular race, color, sex, religion or national origin; or
   (F)   For profit or with the hope or expectation of profit to influence, or
attempt to influence, by any words, acts, or failure to act, any seller,
purchaser, landlord or tenant of a dwelling so as to retard, obstruct or
discourage racially integrated housing.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 DISCRIMINATION IN THE FINANCING OF HOUSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part of the making of a commercial or residential real
estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or to discriminate against any such person in the
fixing of the amount, interest rate, brokerage points, duration or other terms
or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance, because of:
   (A)   The race, color, sex, religion or national origin of such person or of
any person associated with him or her in connection with such loan or other
financial assistance; or
   (B)   The race, color, sex, religion or national origin of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
for which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 DISCRIMINATION IN THE PROVISION OF BROKERAGE SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deny access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate in the terms of
conditions of such access, membership or participation, on account of race,
color, sex, religion or national origin.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   There shall be exempted from the application of §
96.02 all transactions involving:
      (1)   The rental of units in dwellings containing living quarters
occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living
independently of each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of
such units as his or her residence;
      (2)   The rental of a single room in a dwelling containing living
quarters occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than one family if the
person offering such room for rental actually maintains and occupies the
remainder of such dwelling as his or her residence and not more than four such
rooms are offered; or
      (3)   The sale or rental of any single house by a private individual who
owns such house, provided that:
         (a)   The sale or rental is made without the use in any manner of the
sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate
broker, agent or salesperson, or of such facilities or services of any person
in the business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of
any such broker, agent, salesperson or person;
         (b)   The sale is made without the publication, posting or mailing of
any advertisement or written notice in violation of §
96.02(C) (this shall not prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors title companies, and other such professional assistance as
necessary to perfect or transfer the title);
         (c)   The owner does not own more than three single-family houses at
the time of the sale;
         (d)   The owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or
reserved on his or her behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title
to or any right to all or any portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental
of more than three such single-family houses at any one time; and
         (e)   If the owner does not reside in the house at the time of sale or
was not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
granted by this division (A)(3)(e) shall apply only with respect to one such
sale within any 24-month period.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a religious organization,
association or society or any non-profit institution or organization operated,
supervised or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious association, or
society from limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex or national origin.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a bona fide private club, not
in fact open to the public which as an incident to its primary purpose,
provides lodging which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose,
from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from
giving preference to its members.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984)
§ 96.06 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   Only the person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes he or she will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that has occurred or is occurring (hereafter
referred to as “person aggrieved”) may file a complaint under this chapter.
Such complaints shall be in writing and shall identify the person alleged to
have committed or alleged to be committing a discriminatory housing practice
and shall state the facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory
housing practice are based. The city shall prepare complaint forms and furnish
them without charge to any person, upon request.
   (B)   The city shall receive and accept notification and referral complaints
from the U.S. Attorney General and the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development pursuant to the provisions of Title VII, Fair Housing Act of 1968,
Pub. L. No. 90-284, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 3601 et seq., and shall treat such
complaints hereunder in the same manner as complaints filed pursuant to
division (A) above.
   (C)   All complaints shall be filed within 60 days following the occurrence
of an alleged discriminatory housing practice. Upon the filing or referral of
any complaint, the city shall provide notice of the complaint by furnishing a
copy of such complaint to the person or persons named therein who allegedly
committed or were threatening to commit an alleged discriminatory housing
practice. The accused may file an answer to the complaint within 15 days of
receipt of the written complaint.
   (D)   All complaints and answers shall be subscribed and sworn to before an
officer authorized to administer oaths.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984)
§ 96.07 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon the filing or referral of a complaint as herein provided, the
city shall cause to be made a prompt and full investigation of the matter
stated in the complaint.
   (B)   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing of
the notice of complaint, the city shall, if it appears that a discriminatory
housing practice has occurred or is threatening to occur, attempt by informal
endeavors to effect conciliation, including voluntary discontinuance of the
discriminatory housing practice and adequate assurance of future voluntary
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Nothing said or done in the
course of such informal evidence may be made public by the city, by the
complainant or by any other party to the proceedings without the written
consent of all persons concerned.
   (C)   Upon completion of the investigation and informal endeavors at
conciliation by the city, but within 30 days of the filing of the complaint
with the city, if the efforts of the city to secure voluntary compliance have
been unsuccessful, and if the city has made a determination that a
discriminatory housing practice has in fact occurred, the City Attorney shall
make a determination as to whether to proceed with prosecution of such
complaint in Municipal Court. If the City Attorney determines to prosecute, he
or she shall institute a complaint and prosecute same to conclusion within 30
days after such determination, or as soon thereafter as practicable.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984)
§ 96.08 CUMULATIVE LEGAL EFFECT.
   This chapter is cumulative in its legal effect and is not in lieu of any and
all other legal remedies which the person aggrieved may pursue.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984)
§ 96.09 UNLAWFUL INTIMIDATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage or
otherwise penalize any individual, group or business because he, she or they
have complied with the provisions of this chapter, because he, she or they have
exercised his, her or their rights under this chapter, or enjoyed the benefits
of this chapter, or because he, she or they have made a charge, testified or
assisted in any manner in any investigation, or in any proceeding hereunder or
have made any report to the city.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined a sum not
to exceed $200 for each violation. Each day a violation continues after passage
of 75 days from date of the filing of the initial complaint with the city shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 06-84, passed 6-7-1984)
CHAPTER 97: OIL AND GAS WELLS
Section
   
97.01   Regulating the casing of oil and/or gas wells
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 REGULATING THE CASING OF OIL AND/OR GAS WELLS.
   All persons, firms and corporations drilling wells within the city limits
shall provide two strings of pipe set in accordance within the following
procedure.
   (A)   The surface casing shall consist of new or reconditioned pipe with an
original mill test of not less than 1,200 pounds per square inch, and shall be
set and cemented in the first shale break below the base of the Trinity Fresh
Water Sand. Cementing shall be by the pump and plug method, and sufficient
cement shall be used to fill the annular space back of the pipe to the surface
of the ground or the bottom of the cellar. Cement shall be allowed to stand a
minimum of 12 hours under pressure and a total of 24 hours before initiating
tests. Before drilling the plugs, a pump pressure of at least 1,000 pounds per
square inch shall be applied. If at the end of 30 minutes the pressure shows a
drop of 100 pounds per square inch, or more, the casing shall be condemned.
After the corrective operations the casing shall be tested in the same manner,
and this string shall stand the required tests before compliance with this rule
shall have been made.
   (B)   The producing or oil string shall consist of new or reconditioned pipe
that has been tested to and has withstood the application of a pressure of at
least 2,100 pounds per square inch. Cementing shall be by the pump and plug
method, and sufficient cement shall be used to fill the calculated annular
space behind the pipe to a minimum of 1,000 feet above the guide shoe. Cement
shall be allowed to stand a minimum of 12 hours under pressure and a total of
24 hours before initiating tests. Before drilling the plug, a pump pressure of
at least 1,500 pounds per square inch shall be applied. If at the end of 30
minutes the pressure shows a crop of 100 pounds per square inch, or more, the
casing shall be condemned. After corrective operations, the casing shall again
be tested in the same manner, and this string shall stand the required test
before compliance with this rule shall have been made.
   (C)   Each person, firm or corporation shall furnish to the city evidence of
following the above provisions and shall further provide written guarantees
that each oil and/or gas well is cased in accordance with said procedures.
(Ord. 009-76, passed 12-6-1976) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200 for
each day of such violation and the city shall have in addition to the foregoing
penalties, the power of injunctive relief to prohibit violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 009-76, passed 12-6-1976)
CHAPTER 98: PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
Section
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Purpose
   
98.03   Registration
   
98.04   Issuance or denial of registration
   
98.05   Revocation of registration
   
98.06   Appeal from denial or revocation of registration
   
98.07   Plans of record
   
98.08   Tree trimming; temporary removal of facilities
   
98.09   Excavation permit required; exceptions; fees
   
98.10   Permit application
   
98.11   Permit issuance
   
98.12   Revocation of excavation permit
   
98.13   Appeal from denial or revocation of permit
   
98.14   Notification
   
98.15   Placement of facilities
   
98.16   Worksite regulations
   
98.17   Traffic, detours, barricades
   
98.18   Restoration of right-of-way
   
98.19   Failure to complete work
   
98.20   Removal of utility facilities
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   CITY. The City of Lindsay, Texas.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the city.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any of the following activities performed by any person within
a right-of-way:
      (1)   Installation, excavation, laying, placement, repair, upgrade,
maintenance, or relocation of facilities or other improvements, whether
temporary or permanent.
      (2)   Modification or alteration to any surface, subsurface, or aerial
space within the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Performance, restoration, or repair of pavement cuts or
excavations.
      (4)   Other similar construction work.
      (5)   Reconstruction of any of the work described in divisions (1)
through (4) of this definition.
   EMERGENCY CONDITIONS. A situation that could not be reasonably anticipated,
and where customer service has been interrupted, imminent harm to property or
persons exists if repair is not immediately commenced.
   EXCAVATION. The removal of dirt, fill, or other material in the public
right-of-way, including but not limited to the methods of open trenching,
boring, tunneling, or jacking.
   EXCAVATION PERMIT. The document giving consent to construct, install,
repair, relocate or remove particular facilities within the right-of-way.
   FACILITIES. The plant, equipment, and property, including but not limited to
lines, poles, mains, pipes, conduits, ducts, cables, and wires located under,
on, or above the surface of the ground within the right-of-way of the city and
valves, and related facilities and equipment used or useful for the providing
of utility services.
   INCIDENTAL IN NATURE. That work which can be completed, consistent with
applicable federal or state laws or regulations, without:
      (1)   Obstructing the flow of vehicular traffic on a street, alley, or
sidewalk;
      (2)   The open cutting of a paved area of a city street or easement; or
      (3)   Underground boring or jacking within the paved area of a city
street.
   MAYOR. The Mayor of the city or the Mayor's designated representative.
   PERMIT HOLDER. The person applying for or receiving a permit to perform
construction within the city's right-of-way under the terms and conditions of
this chapter, and includes:
      (1)   Any officer, director, partner, manager, superintendent, or other
authorized person exercising control over or on behalf of the permit holder;
and
      (2)   Any contractor or subcontractor of the permit holder, for purposes
of compliance with the traffic control, construction, and maintenance
requirements of this chapter.
   PERSON. A natural person, corporation, company, association, partnership,
firm, limited liability company, joint venture, joint stock company or
association, or other such entity.
   REGISTRATION. The document giving consent to own and operate facilities
within the right-of-way.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, public sidewalk, alley, waterway, or utility easement in which the city
has an interest. The term does not include the airwaves above a right-of-way
with regard to wireless telecommunications.
   UTILITY PROVIDER. A business that offers a public utility service, including
but not limited to gas, electricity, cable, or telecommunications services, and
that owns, rents, or has an agreement which authorizes it to utilize facilities
within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Assist in the management of facilities placed in, on or over the
public rights-of-way in order to minimize the congestion, inconvenience, visual
impact and other adverse effects, and the costs to the citizens resulting from
the placement of facilities within the public rights-of-way;
   (B)   Govern the use and occupancy of the public rights-of-way;
   (C)   Assist the city in its efforts to protect the public health, safety
and welfare;
   (D)   Conserve the limited physical capacity of the public rights-of-way
held in public trust by the city;
   (E)   Preserve the physical integrity of the streets and highways;
   (F)   Control the orderly flow of vehicles and pedestrians; and
   (G)   Prevent interference between the different entities using the rights-
of-way.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person owns or operates facilities
within the right-of-way within the city without first having obtained a
registration from the city.
   (B)   To obtain registration, a person must submit an application on a form
provided by the city. The applicant must be the person who will own the
facilities.
   (C)   The applicant for registration shall furnish the city the following
information which shall be subscribed and sworn to before a notary public:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Trade name under which the applicant does or proposes to do
business;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will be
the contact person for the user;
      (4)   The name, address and telephone number of any contractor or
subcontractor, if known, who will be working in the right-of-way on behalf of
the applicant;
      (5)   The name(s) and telephone number of an emergency contact who shall
be available 24 hours a day;
      (6)   Proof of insurance and bonds, as follows:
         (a)   Worker's compensation insurance meeting applicable statutory
requirements and employer's liability insurance with minimum limits of $100,000
for each accident.
         (b)   Commercial general liability insurance, or any combination of
general liability and umbrella or excess insurance, with minimum limits of
$5,000,000 as the combined single limit for each occurrence of bodily injury,
personal injury and property damage. The policy shall provide blanket
contractual liability insurance for all written contracts and shall include
coverage for products and completed operations liability, independent
contractor's liability; coverage for property damage from perils of explosion,
collapse or damage to underground utilities, commonly known as XCU coverage.
The insurance coverage must be written by a company or companies approved to
conduct business in the State of Texas. The city must be named as an additional
insured on the policy by using endorsement CG 20 26 or broader.
         (c)   Automobile liability insurance covering all owned, hired, and
non-owned vehicles in use by applicant, its employees and agents, with personal
protection insurance and property protection insurance to comply with the
provisions of state law with minimum limits of $2,000,000 as the combined
single limit for each occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
         (d)   The city will accept certificates of self-insurance which
provide the same coverages as required herein, so long as the applicant
demonstrates by written information to the city that it has adequate financial
resources to be a self-insured entity.
         (e)   All policies other than those for worker's compensation shall be
written on an occurrence and not on a claims made basis and shall name the
city, its officers and employees as additional insureds by using endorsement CG
20 26 or broader. All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be
rated A+ or better by A.M. Best Company.
         (f)   Insurance policies must provide that the issuing company waives
all right to recovery by way of subrogation against the city in connection with
damage covered by the policy.
         (g)   All insurance policies shall contain the following endorsement:
At least 30 days prior written notice shall be given to the City of Lindsay by
the insurer of any intention not to renew such policy or to cancel, replace or
materially alter same, such notice to be given by registered mail.
         (h)   The applicant, and thereafter, the registration holder, without
cost to the city, shall file a surety bond which will be valid each year
construction will occur through two full years after the completion of the
construction. The surety bond shall be issued by a surety company authorized to
do business in the State of Texas. The amount of the bond shall be the
estimated amount of the cost to restore the right-of-way for the work
anticipated to be done in that year, in the event the registration holder
leaves a job site in the right-of-way unfinished, incomplete or unsafe. If the
applicant has no facilities existing in the city at the time of application,
the city may postpone the requirement for filing a surety bond until the
applicant submits an application for an excavation permit.
         (i)   A utility provider with a franchise in effect on the date of
this chapter satisfies the requirements of this section if the provider's
franchise adequately provides insurance and bonds.
      (7)   Such other information as the city may determine is reasonably
necessary.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.04 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The city shall issue a registration to the applicant if the city,
after review of the application, determines that the applicant:
      (1)   Has complied with all requirements for issuance of the
registration; and
      (2)   Has not made a false or inaccurate statement as to a material
matter on the application for registration; and
      (3)   Either:
         (a)   Has reimbursed the city for any costs the city has incurred as a
result of work performed in the right-of-way; or
         (b)   Is covered by an existing franchise or agreement with the city.
   (B)   A registration shall be valid for a period of five years. A person may
renew a registration by making application as provided in §
98.03 hereof. A registration is not transferrable.
   (C)   Each registration holder shall pay to the city a fee for the use of
the right-of-way in an amount as established by the City Council in accordance
with applicable city ordinance provisions, franchise provisions, or the
provisions of Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code Chapter 283.
   (D)   A registration holder shall immediately advise the city of actual or
potential litigation that may develop or may affect the registration holder's
obligation to defend and indemnify the city.
   (E)   A registration holder shall submit certificates of insurance for each
insurance policy required by §
98.03 to the city each year during the term of the registration.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.05 REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   The city shall revoke a registration if the city determines that the
registration holder has:
   (A)   Given false or inaccurate information on the application for
registration or in a hearing concerning the registration; or
   (B)   Violated the provisions of this chapter or violated the terms of the
franchise if the registration holder has a franchise with the city.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.06 APPEAL FROM DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION.
   If the city denies or revokes a right-of-way registration, the city shall
give notice by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the applicant or registration holder. The applicant or registration holder
may appeal the decision to deny or revoke by filing written notice with the
Mayor, within five days after receipt of notice. The Mayor shall mail or cause
to be personally delivered, written notice of the time and place of the hearing
to the person appealing. The notice shall be mailed to the address specified in
the notice of appeal form. The Mayor shall conduct a hearing and shall make a
decision on the basis of a preponderance of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The applicant or registration holder may appeal the decision of the
Mayor to deny or revoke by filing written notice with the City Council, within
five days after receipt of the notice of the Mayor's decision. The City Council
shall mail or cause to be personally delivered, written notice of the time and
place of the hearing to the person appealing. The notice shall be mailed to the
address specified in the notice of appeal form. The City Council shall conduct
a hearing and shall make a decision on the basis of a preponderance of the
evidence presented at the hearing. The decision of the City Council shall be
final.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.07 PLANS OF RECORD.
   (A)   A utility provider which has facilities in the right-of-way existing
as of the effective date of adoption of this chapter and has not provided the
city "plans of record" plans shall provide such information to the city not
later than one year after the effective date of this chapter in the format
specified by the city and with as much detail and accuracy as required by the
city. The registration holder shall submit "plans of record" in digital format
as well as written. The registration holder is not required to include in the
submission matters such as capacity of lines, customers, or details which it
demonstrates, to the reasonable satisfaction of the city, to be confidential
information or a breach of security, so long as the plans show the location and
physical dimensions of the facilities.
   (B)   For facilities constructed after the effective date of this chapter, a
registration holder shall provide the city with "plans of record" within 90
days of completion of facilities in the right-of-way. The plans shall be
provided to the city in a format prescribed by the city, and in accordance with
the provisions of division (A).
   (C)   The city, for good cause, may waive all, or portions of the
requirements of divisions (A) and (B). The city may reassess waivers from time
to time to determine whether the utility provider's ability to provide plans of
record has changed.
   (D)   If a utility provider's plans of record include information expressly
designated by the utility provider as a trade secret or other confidential
information protected from disclosure by state law, the city may not disclose
that information to the public without the consent of the utility provider,
unless otherwise compelled by an opinion of the attorney general pursuant to
the Texas Public Information Act, as amended, or by a court having jurisdiction
of the matter pursuant to applicable law. This division may not be construed to
authorize a public service provider to designate all matters in its plans of
record as confidential or as trade secrets.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.08 TREE TRIMMING; TEMPORARY REMOVAL OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   A registration holder or its contractor may trim trees in or over the
rights-of-way for the safe and reliable operation, use and maintenance of its
facilities. The registration holder shall trim the trees in such a manner to
preserve as much vegetation and natural shape of trees as reasonably possible,
and still accomplish a safe and effective tree trimming program. The
registration holder shall make reasonable efforts to contact affected property
owners prior to necessary tree trimming operations, with standards promulgated
by the city.
   (B)   Should the registration holder or its contractor fail to remove the
trimmings within 24 hours of trimming, unless a longer period is required for
extraordinary conditions and conditions beyond the control of the registration
holder, the city may remove the trimmings. Should the city remove the
trimmings, the registration holder shall reimburse the city for all costs
incurred within 30 days of receipt of an invoice from the city.
   (C)   A registration holder shall temporarily remove, raise or lower its
aerial facilities to permit the moving of houses or other bulky structures, if
the city first gives written notice of not less than five days. Should the
registration holder or its contractor contact the city prior to the expiration
of the five-day period and provide information indicating that the movement of
the aerial facilities will require additional time, the city may authorize an
alternate schedule. The expense of the temporary rearrangements shall be paid
by the party requesting and benefitting from the temporary rearrangement. The
registration holder may require prepayment or the posting of a bond from the
party requesting the temporary rearrangement.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.09 EXCAVATION PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS; FEES.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person places or causes to be
placed any facilities within the right-of-way in any other manner than
specified in this chapter.
   (B)   A person shall obtain an excavation permit prior to performing any
excavation, construction, relocation, removal, installation, repair, or
maintenance of facilities within the right-of-way. An excavation permit is
required for new construction and replacement or upgrading of a utility
provider's network in the right-of-way, either aerial or underground.
   (C)   The following work undertaken by a person does not require an
excavation permit:
      (1)   Work that is incidental in nature;
      (2)   Work required by emergency conditions, if the registration holder
complies with division (D) hereof;
      (3)   Work that obstructs the flow of vehicular traffic on a street,
alley, or sidewalk for less than two hours, if the person has complied with the
following requirements:
         (a)   The registration holder has submitted a traffic control plan to
the city in a form approved by the city;
         (b)   The city has approved the traffic control plan;
         (c)   The work is performed in compliance with the traffic control
plan; and
         (d)   Unless the work is performed under emergency conditions, the
person has given the city four hours written notice of the proposed work; or
      (4)   Work performed to initiate service to an individual customer's
property as long as the requirements of division (3) are met, if applicable.
   (D)   When performing work required by emergency conditions, the
registration holder shall notify the city as promptly as possible. The city
shall determine if any city employee shall be required to be present for on-
site inspection during emergency repairs. A registration holder who performs
the emergency work shall submit to the city as soon as practicable, a
reasonably detailed description of the work performed in the right-of-way and
an updated map of the facilities that were relocated, if any.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.10 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   The person requesting an excavation permit will provide the city with
the following documentation in the format specified by the city:
      (1)   The proposed approximate location and route of all facilities to be
constructed or installed and the applicant's plan for right-of-way
construction.
      (2)   Two sets of engineering plans, on a scale of one inch equals 50
feet unless otherwise approved by the city. When required by the Texas
Engineering Practice Act, as amended, the plans must be sealed by a
professional engineer licensed to practice in the State of Texas. The plans
must include the horizontal alignment of all proposed facilities in relation to
all existing public and private facilities in plain view. If the project is a
major project, crosses street intersections, or involves crossing proposed
facilities over or under existing facilities, the plans must also include a
representation of the vertical alignment of the facilities in profile view.
Each sheet of plans must have a note instructing the contractor to verify the
location of underground utilities at least 100 feet in advance of all proposed
utility crossings, and also at locations where the proposed facilities are
shown to be running parallel to existing facilities within five feet.
      (3)   Description of the location of all right-of-way and utility
easements which applicant plans to use.
      (4)   Detail of the facilities applicant proposes to install, such as
pipe size, number of interducts, valves, etc.
      (5)   Detail of all existing city utilities in relationship to
applicant's proposed route.
      (6)   Detail of plans to remove and replace asphalt or concrete in the
street, using city standards and specifications.
      (7)   Drawings of any bores, trenches, handholes, manholes, switchgear,
transformers, pedestals, etc., including depth.
      (8)   Handhole and/or manhole typical of type of manholes and/or
handholes applicant plans to use or access.
      (9)   Complete legend of drawings, which may be provided by reference to
documents previously submitted to the city.
      (10)   The name, address and telephone numbers of the contractor or
subcontractor who will perform the actual construction, if known, including the
name and telephone number of a representative of the contractor who may be
reached 24 hours a day during construction.
      (11)   A statement that proof of insurance, bond or other required
financial information as required by §
98.03 of this chapter is current and on file with the city.
      (12)   The construction and installation methods to be employed for the
protection of existing structures, fixtures, and facilities within or adjacent
to the right-of-way, and the estimated dates and times work will occur, all of
which are subject to the reasonable approval of the city.
      (13)   A copy of any permit or approval issued by federal or state
authorities for work in federal or state right-of-way located in the city.
      (14)   Verification that the applicant has a valid right-of-way
registration from the city.
      (15)   Evidence that all other utility providers in the area have been
given notice of the excavation. Notice to utilities subject to Tex. Utilities
Code Chapter 251 may be accomplished by providing the city with the reference
number assigned by the notification center established pursuant to Tex.
Utilities Code Chapter 251.
      (16)   A copy of the applicant's traffic control plan and policy for work
performed within the right-of-way.
      (17)   A statement by the applicant that the applicant has collected all
available plans for existing city underground facilities and other public and
private utilities and has included those facilities and utilities in the
applicant's design, showing no apparent conflict. The statement must also
affirm that the applicant will perform field verifications as necessary during
construction to locate all city and other existing underground facilities.
   (B)   An applicant shall submit an application for an excavation permit at
least ten working days before the commencement of work proposed in the
application, unless waived by the city. If the applicant requests a permit for
a major project, an applicant shall submit the application for an excavation
permit at least 30 working days before the commencement of work proposed in the
application.
   (C)   The city may require a pre-construction meeting with the permit holder
and its construction contractor.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.11 PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The excavation permit application shall be completed and signed by an
authorized representative of the owner of the facilities to be constructed.
   (B)   The city shall accept the application and shall issue permit if the
applicant is otherwise in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   The city may refuse to issue a permit if:
      (1)   The proposed construction will substantially interfere with another
activity for which a permit has been issued, or will conflict or interfere with
existing facilities already in the public right-of-way;
      (2)   The applicant:
         (a)   Failed to furnish all the information required by this chapter;
         (b)   Knowingly or intentionally furnished false or incorrect
information to the city;
         (c)   Failed to file the application on the approved form within the
time limits prescribed by this section;
         (d)   Failed to submit plans of record;
         (e)   Failed to furnish or have on file with the city the insurance
required by this chapter;
         (f)   Is not in compliance with applicable requirements of an existing
permit issued under this chapter;
         (g)   Has failed to reimburse the city for any costs owed pursuant to
this chapter; or
         (h)   Was convicted of violating a provision of this chapter twice
within the two-year period immediately preceding the date of application.
   (D)   The excavation permit shall state to whom it is issued, location of
work, location of facilities, dates and times work is to take place and any
other condition set out by the city.
   (E)   The permit holder shall:
      (1)   Maintain a copy of the excavation permit and approved engineering
plans at the construction site available for inspection by the city at all
times when construction or installation work is occurring;
      (2)   Complete all construction work authorized by the permit in the time
specified in the permit, unless the permit holder has obtained an extension
from the city; and
      (3)   Provide the city access to the work and to such further information
he or she may reasonably require to ensure compliance with the permit.
   (F)   The permit shall expire if the work authorized by the permit does not
commence within 30 days from the date of issuance of the permit. The city may
authorize renewal of the permit for two additional 30-day periods without
resubmission of an application so long as the scope of work is not changed.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.12 REVOCATION OF EXCAVATION PERMIT.
   The city shall revoke an excavation permit if the city determines that the
permit holder has:
   (A)   Given false or inaccurate information on the application for an
excavation permit or in a hearing concerning the permit; or
   (B)   Has violated the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.13 APPEAL FROM DENIAL OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   If the city denies or revokes an excavation permit, the city shall give
notice by personal service or by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the applicant or permit holder. The applicant or registration holder may appeal
the decision to deny or revoke by filing written notice with the Mayor, within
five days after receipt of notice. The Mayor shall mail or cause to be
personally delivered, written notice of the time and place of the hearing to
the person appealing. The notice shall be mailed to the address specified in
the notice of appeal form. The Mayor shall conduct a hearing and shall make a
decision on the basis of a preponderance of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The decision of the Mayor shall be final.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.14 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   An applicant for an excavation permit or its contractor shall notify a
notification center established pursuant to Tex. Utility Code Chapter 251,
prior to conducting any work in the right-of-way such as excavating, drilling,
underground boring, jacking, or open cutting.
   (B)   A permit holder shall provide the city with the following information
not less than 48 hours before beginning work under the utility construction
permit:
      (1)   The reference number received from the notification center;
      (2)   The exact dates and time work will be performed under the permit;
and
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the person who will
perform the work, including a representative who will be available at all times
during construction, and who may be contacted by the phone 24 hours per day.
   (C)   The notice of work must be in writing and may be sent by facsimile
transmission.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.15 PLACEMENT OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   All facilities constructed within the right-of-way after the effective
date of this chapter shall:
      (1)   Conform to all codes and ordinances;
      (2)   Be installed in accordance with plans and at locations within the
right-of-way approved by the city;
      (3)   Be installed or constructed so as not to unreasonably interfere
with:
         (a)   Traffic over city streets;
         (b)   The health, safety or welfare of the owners of property
adjoining the right-of-way; or
         (c)   The operation of other facilities or equipment situated within
the right-of-way, whether owned or maintained by the city or other utility
providers.
      (4)   Be situated so as to minimize the space used.
   (B)   To the extent permitted by law, the city may require the location of
facilities underground.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.16 WORKSITE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In performing the work covered by the excavation permit, the permit
holder shall:
      (1)   Comply with trench safety requirements adopted by federal, state,
and local law;
      (2)   Follow the appropriate national safety code, as applicable,
regarding design and construction procedures;
      (3)   Compact the backfillings to a density of 95% standard proctor
density, as determined by a testing laboratory so as to prevent settling when a
trench lies under any city street, or within 18 inches of a city street, and
otherwise, to a density which meets the North Central Texas Council of
Government specifications, as adopted by the city;
      (4)   Install new facilities located within the right-of-way at a minimum
depth approved by the city with the following minimum clearances, except where
the city finds an alternate clearance can safely accommodate existing
utilities:
         (a)   All conduit that crosses an existing sanitary sewer, or water
main shall be buried under the existing pipes and shall have a two-foot minimum
vertical clearance at the underside of the existing pipes;
         (b)   All conduit that crosses an existing storm sewer shall have a
two-foot minimum vertical clearance from the exterior face of the existing
storm sewer; and
         (c)   All conduit that runs parallel to an existing storm sewer,
sanitary sewer or water main shall have a three-foot minimum horizontal
clearance from the exterior face of the pipes or manholes;
      (5)   Have the obligation to use trenchless technology whenever
commercially economical and practical and consistent with obligation on other
similar users of the rights-of-way. The city may waive the requirement of
trenchless technology if the city determines that the field conditions warrant
the waiver, based upon information provided to the city by the permit holder.
      (6)   Ensure that the portion of the right-of-way in which repair work is
conducted is, at all times and to the extent practicable, kept free of
accumulating water;
      (7)   Promptly remove from the right-of-way all earth, gravel, stone or
other material excavated from the area of such repair work, which is not needed
for fill material at that location;
      (8)   Erect and maintain information signs of a size of three feet by
three feet which state the identity of the person doing the work, telephone
number and the permit holder's identity and telephone number at the location
where construction is to occur 48 hours prior to the beginning of work in the
right-of-way and shall continue to be posted at the location during the entire
time the work is occurring;
      (9)   Notify the city immediately of any damage to other facilities,
either city or privately owned;
      (10)   Ensure that newly installed facilities will not interfere with
other facilities, in particular gravity dependent facilities;
      (11)   Comply with city, state and federal regulations and guidelines for
storm water management erosion control;
      (12)   Submit to the city a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)
that has been submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency or Texas Natural
Resources Conservation Commission or submit a copy of a letter to the EPA
stating that the permit holder is not required to obtain such approval; and
      (13)   Maintain a four-foot vertical clearance below the bottom of the
proposed stream bed or drainage facilities, if applicable. The applicant shall
contact the city to determine whether future improvements to the channel may
impact the cable alignment.
   (B)   In performing work on facilities within the right-of-way, a permit
holder shall not:
      (1)   Unreasonably interfere with the operation of other facilities or
equipment situated within the right-of-way, whether owned or maintained by the
city or other utility providers;
      (2)   Use dynamite or other explosives during the excavation without the
prior written approval of the city; or
      (3)   Remove locate flags from a location while facilities are being
constructed.
   (C)   A permit holder is responsible for the workmanship and any damages by
a contractor or subcontractor. The permit holder shall make available a
representative of the permit holder to the city at all times during
construction.
   (D)   Except in an emergency, the working hours in the rights-of-way are 8:
00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. Work that needs to be performed
after 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday must be approved in advance. Any work
performed outside these times must be approved 24 hours in advance by the city.
Directional boring is permitted only Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m., unless approved in advance. No work will be done, except for emergencies,
on city holidays.
   (E)   A permit holder is responsible for:
      (1)   Physically verifying the location both horizontal and vertical of
all affected facilities, or, if required by the city, hand digging or
potholing, prior to any excavation or boring, with the exception of work
involving only lane closures; and
      (2)   Obtaining line locaters from all affected utilities prior to any
excavation. Use of the Geographic Information System or the plans of record
does not satisfy this requirement.
   (F)   The city must approve in advance the placement of all manholes and/or
handholes. Handholes or manholes shall not be located in sidewalks, unless
approved by the city.
   (G)   The city may stop work under the permit at any time upon finding that
conditions at the worksite exist that pose an immediate risk of harm to persons
and/or property.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.17 TRAFFIC, DETOURS, BARRICADES.
   (A)   Except in emergency conditions, a person shall obtain prior approval
of the city when a street or sidewalk cut is required and comply with all
requirements of the Public Works Department for street cuts.
   (B)   A permit holder or person shall not cut or open more than one-half of
the roadway at any time in order to maintain the flow of traffic at all times.
However, in an emergency or with the permission of the city, the total width of
the roadway may be cut or opened provided barricades are placed at the first
intersection each way from the cut and detour signs are erected.
   (C)   Except in an emergency, all street closures or detours that will
exceed 24 hours in duration shall be posted by a sign at least two days prior
to the closure or detour. If a cut or opening in a street is left open after 6:
00 p.m., a barricade or temporary fencing must be placed on both sides of the
cut and flares or red or amber lights shall be placed in front of each
barricade. In the alternative, the permit holder may cover the cut with steel
plates.
   (D)   In performing the work, a permit holder shall furnish and install the
barricades, flares, and lights as necessary, and in compliance with the Texas
Manual for Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as amended from time to time. In
the event there is a conflict between the provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of the 1980 Texas Manual for Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as
amended, the latter shall be controlling.
   (E)   During the time the work is actually being conducted, the permit
holder shall provide a flagger to alert the public to the work, when required
by the Texas Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as amended, or when
required by a city inspector.
   (F)   A permit holder may close a traffic lane on a major thoroughfare only
between 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. unless the city grants prior approval. Arrow
board is required on lane closures, with all barricades, advanced warning signs
and 36-inch reflector cones placed in accordance with the 1980 Texas Manual for
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, as amended.
   (G)   Any work that may involve construction within the right-of-way
adjoining a school within the city must be coordinated with the city so as to
minimize traffic conflicts and street closures during school days.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.18 RESTORATION OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   After completion of any work within the right-of-way, a permit holder
shall return all flowlines and grades in the right-of-way to their original
condition and shall complete restoration, which shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Replacing all ground cover with equal to the type of ground cover
damaged during work, or better either by sodding or seeding, as directed by the
city.
      (2)   Installing of all manholes and handholes, as required.
      (3)   Backfilling all bore pits, potholes, trenches or any other holes,
unless other safety requirements are approved by the city.
      (4)   Leveling of all trenches and backhoe lines.
      (5)   Restoring the excavation site to city specifications.
      (6)   Restoring of all landscaping, ground cover, and sprinkler systems.
      (7)   Removing all locate flags during the cleanup process.
   (B)   A permit holder shall complete restoration to the satisfaction of the
city within 30 calendar days after completion of the work, unless otherwise
extended by the city. All damage caused directly or indirectly to the public
right-of-way surface or subsurface outside the pavement cut or excavation area
will be regarded as a part of the pavement cut or excavation and must be
included in the total area repaired. If repaired by the city, the permit holder
shall reimburse the city for the actual direct and indirect costs of the
repair.
   (C)   Should the city determine, within two years from the date of the
completion of the repair work, that there is a defect or damage in the
permitted construction, the permit holder responsible for the original or any
subsequent restoration shall perform such restoration work to the reasonable
satisfaction of the city. The damage or defect must be corrected to the
satisfaction of the city within ten days after the city gives notice to the
permit holder to correct the damage, defect, or other problem.
   (D)   Notwithstanding division (C) above, if the city determines that the
failure of a permit holder to properly repair or restore the right-of-way
constitutes a safety hazard to the public, the city may, after providing notice
to the permit holder, undertake emergency repairs and restoration efforts. A
permit holder shall promptly reimburse the city for all costs incurred by the
city within 30 calendar days from the date of the city's invoice.
   (E)   If a permit holder fails to perform necessary restoration in
accordance with the requirements of this section, all work in progress, except
that related to the problem, which has been permitted but not complete may be
halted and the city may place a hold on any permits not approved until all
restoration is complete.
   (F)   The city shall notify the permit holder if the backfill on a permitted
construction settles at any time during the two-year maintenance period
required in division (C) of this section, causing subsidence in the pavement of
one-half inch or more, vertically measured in any three-foot horizontal
direction. Upon notification, the permit holder shall schedule appropriate
repair work and promptly notify the city of the anticipated dates of
commencement and completion of the repair work. If the repair work is not
commenced or completed within the agreed-upon time schedule, or if no response
is received by the city within 24 hours after notification to the permit
holder, the repair work may be performed by the city. The permit holder shall
reimburse the city for the actual direct and indirect costs of any repair work
performed by the city.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.19 FAILURE TO COMPLETE WORK.
   If the permit holder fails to diligently perform the work described in the
permit, abandons the job, or for other reasons does not complete the work
within a timely manner, the city, after giving notice to the registration
holder, shall have the authority to take such action as is necessary to restore
the right-of-way to a good and safe condition for the benefit and convenience
of the public. If the failure to complete the work causes a safety hazard, the
city shall commence restoration and shall notify the registration holder as
promptly as possible after commencing work. The permit holder shall be
responsible for all costs incurred by the city in restoring the right-of-way
and shall make no claim against the city for any excess costs or expenses or
damage incurred by the permit holder or utility provider on account of the
city's action.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.20 REMOVAL OF UTILITY FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall have the right and may at any time order and require
any registration holder to remove and abate any facility that the city
determines is necessary to address a public health or safety emergency. If the
registration holder or permit holder, after notice, fails or refuses to act,
the city shall have the power to cause the removal or abatement of the
dangerous facilities at the expense of the registration holder without
liability for damages. The registration holder shall reimburse the city for all
costs incurred.
   (B)   When required by the city for reasons of public safety, street
vacation, widening, reconstruction, relocation or regrading, or installation,
repair or maintenance of streets, drainage ways, sewer mains, water pipes,
power lines, signal lights, or any other type of structures or improvements
installed by the city on behalf of the public, the registration holder shall,
at its own expense, disconnect, remove, and relocate from the right-of-way, any
lines, facilities, or other improvements within 60 days of the date when
ordered in writing by the city, and the registration holder shall have no claim
for reimbursement of costs or damages against the city, unless otherwise
provided by state law. The 60 day limit shall not apply if the city has
approved a different schedule. A person making a pavement cut or excavation for
the purpose of adjusting facilities at the city's request in advance
preparation for a city street paving or storm drainage project shall obtain an
excavation permit.
   (C)   If the city gives written notice to a registration holder that some of
its facilities must be relocated in accordance with the provisions of this
section, the registration holder shall, within 20 business days of the notice,
provide the city assurance that the registration holder shall comply with the
requirements of this section. The city may waive this requirement at the
request of the registration holder if the registration holder submits proof
that for the preceding three years, it has completed relocation in a
workmanlike manner within 60 days or, if authorized by the city, a different
time limit. The assurance may be in the form of a surety bond, escrow
agreement, or letter of credit, which is subject to the approval of the City
Attorney.
   (D)   Facilities not moved after 60 days shall be deemed abandoned after the
city gives the registration holder 30 days' notice. In such event, the city
shall cause the facilities to be removed and the registration holder shall pay
the costs for such removal, together with any other costs the city incurs by
reason of the registration holder's failure to remove the facilities, including
any other costs that arise from the delay in the relocation of the facilities.
The registration holder shall pay such costs within 30 days of the date of the
invoice from the city. Failure to pay such costs shall be cause for revocation
of registration and any excavation permits.
   (E)   The permit holder shall maintain the pavement cut or excavation until
the work order authorizing the construction of the street paving or storm
drainage project is issued by the city. Upon notification by the city of any
problem with the maintenance of the cut or excavation, the permit holder shall
promptly correct the problem. The permit holder shall notify the city of the
anticipated date of correction. If the correction is not made by the
anticipated date, or if no response is received by the city within 24 hours
after the city gives notice to the permit holder, the city may make the
correction, and the permit holder shall reimburse the city for the actual
direct and indirect costs of the correction.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if, in connection with the performance of
construction in the right-of-way, the person:
      (1)   Performs, authorizes, directs, or supervises construction without a
valid excavation permit;
      (2)   Violates any other provision of this chapter;
      (3)   Fails to comply with restrictions or requirements of a permit
issued under this chapter; or
      (4)   Fails to comply with an order or regulation of the city issued
pursuant to this chapter;
      (5)   Damages the public right-of-way beyond what is incidental or
necessary to the performance of the construction;
      (6)   Damages public or private facilities within the public right-of-
way; or
      (7)   Fails to clear debris associated with the construction from a
public right-of-way after construction is completed.
   (B)   It is a defense to prosecution under division (A)(6) if the person
complied with all of the requirements of this chapter and state law and caused
the damage because the facilities in question:
      (1)   Were not shown or indicated in a plan document, plan of record,
record construction drawing, or field survey, staking, or marking; and
      (2)   Could not otherwise be discovered in the public right-of-way
through the use of due diligence.
   (C)   A culpable mental state is not required to prove an offense under this
chapter. A person who violates a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or portion of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued, authorized, directed, or permitted. An offense under
division (A)(7) is punishable by a fine of not less than $500 or more than
$2,000. Any other offense under this chapter is punishable by a fine of $500.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 1018-2, passed 2-11-2019)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOL
      
111.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
      
112.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
113.   SNO CONE STANDS
      
114.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING STUDIOS
      
115.   AMUSEMENTS
      
116.   FOOD TRUCKS
      
117.   FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOL
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License or permit required
   
110.03   Procedures regarding licenses or permits
   
110.04   Initial license or permit fee
   
110.05   License or permit renewal and renewal fee
   
110.06   Hours of operation
   
110.07   Regulations of the location for the sale of alcoholic beverages
   
110.08   Variances
   
110.09   Retail dealer’s on-premises late hours licenses
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   All definitions of words, terms and phrases as set forth in the Tex.
Alcoholic Beverage Code are hereby adopted and made part hereof of this
chapter.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-9-1960; Ord. 12-64, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 0615-1, passed 6-
22-2015)
§ 110.02 LICENSE OR PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, distill, brew,
import, store for the purpose of sale, distribute or sell any beer, wine or
mixed beverage within the city unless such person has obtained a license or
permit as applicable (depending on the requirements under state law relative to
the product to be sold).
   (B)   The City Council does hereby levy a fee pursuant, which shall be one-
half of the state fees, upon every person as permitted by the Alcoholic
Beverage Code.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-9-1960; Ord. 12-64, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 0615-1, passed 6-
22-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03 PROCEDURES REGARDING LICENSES OR PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, distill, brew,
import, transport, store for purposes of sale, distribute or sell any beer,
wine, or mixed beverages within the city unless such person has obtained a city
license or permit as applicable from the office of the City Secretary.
   (B)   Licenses or permits shall be kept on file in the City Secretary’s
office.
   (C)   For all on-premises alcohol permits or licenses, sale of alcoholic
beverages is limited to 40% of all sales.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-9-1960; Ord. 12-64, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 0615-1, passed 6-
22-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 INITIAL LICENSE OR PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   As set forth above, the city’s initial license or permit fee shall be
equal to one-half of the state fee required by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage
Commission of every person that may be issued any state permit or license for
the manufacture, distilling, brewing, importing, transporting, storing,
distributing or sale of any beer, wine or mixed beverages unless a different
fee is allowed or required by state law. No city license or permit may be
issued unless the initial license or permit issued by the state is received.
   (B)   Upon payment of the applicable fee to the city and exhibition to the
City Secretary of a license or permit duly issued by the state to the applicant
or person paying such fee, the City Secretary shall, in the name of the city
issue and deliver to such applicant or person a city license to engage in the
business in the city of the character described and authorized by the permit or
license from the state held by such applicant or person. The license issued in
the name of the city, shall authorize conduct of such business upon the
premises described in the license from the state and shall remain in force only
so long as such permits or license from the state remains in force.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-9-1960; Ord. 12-64, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 0615-1, passed 6-
22-2015)
§ 110.05 LICENSE OR PERMIT RENEWAL AND RENEWAL FEE.
   (A)   All license or permits shall be renewed annually. All license or
permits shall terminate at midnight on the day before the anniversary date of
their issuance, and no license or permit shall be issued covering a term longer
than one year.
   (B)   The city shall require payment of an annual license or permit renewal
fee by all establishments selling alcoholic beverages within the city. The
license or permit renewal fee shall be equal to one-half of the state fee
required by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission of every person that may be
issued any state permit or license for the manufacture, distilling, brewing,
importing, transporting, storing, distributing or sale of any beer, wine or
mixed beverages unless a different fee is allowed or required by state law.
   (C)   The City Secretary may cancel a license or permit if a licensee or
permitee fails to pay the applicable license or permit renewal fee. The City
Secretary shall send notice of such cancellation to the address on file with
the license or permit application.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-9-1960; Ord. 12-64, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 0615-1, passed 6-
22-2015) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   The hours of sales of alcoholic beverages in the city shall comply
with state law provisions regarding the hours of sale of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Late hours permits are governed by the state law provisions regarding
late hours sale of alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-9-1960; Ord. 12-64, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 0615-1, passed 6-
22-2015)
§ 110.07 REGULATIONS OF THE LOCATION FOR THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Sale of alcoholic beverages. Refer to Ord. 0510-2 (zoning ordinance),
§ 27.9.
   (B)   Churches and public hospitals. Refer to Ord. 0510-2 (zoning
ordinance), § 27.9.4
   (C)   Public or private school. Refer to Ord. 0510-2 (zoning ordinance), §
27.9.5.
   (D)   Daycare centers. Refer to Ord. 0510-2 (zoning ordinance), § 27.9.6.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-9-1960; Ord. 12-64, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 0615-1, passed 6-
22-2015)
§ 110.08 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The City Council may allow variances to this chapter if:
      (1)   The City Council determines that enforcement of the chapter in a
particular instance is not in the best interests of the public;
      (2)   Constitutes waste or inefficient use of land or other resources;
      (3)   Creates an undue hardship on an applicant for a license or permit;
      (4)   Does not serve its intended purpose;
      (5)   Is not effective or necessary; or
      (6)   For any other reason, the City Council, after consideration of
health, safety and welfare of the public and the equities of the situation,
determines is in the best interest of the community.
   (B)   A variance request shall be filed with the City Secretary according to
city policy. The decision on whether the variance will be approved will be by
the City Council.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-9-1960; Ord. 12-64, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 0615-1, passed 6-
22-2015)
§ 110.09 RETAIL DEALER’S ON-PREMISES LATE HOURS LICENSES.
   (A)   The holders of mixed drink late hours permits and the holders of
retail dealer’s on-premises late hours licenses, as those terms are defined in
the Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code, may sell mixed drinks and beer between the
hours of 12:00 a.m and 2:00 a.m. as provided by the Tex. Alcoholic Beverage
Code, §§ 105.3 and 105.5.
   (B)   It is the intent of this section to authorize and permit any and all
late hour sales which are permitted by the Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code, §§
105.03 and 105.05.
(Ord. 11-3-90, passed 12-7-1990) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   A licensee or permitee who sell an alcoholic beverage without having
paid the applicable license or permit renewal fee to the city will have
committed a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $200 each day of so
offending, or each day that such violation exists shall be a separate offense
and it shall be so constituted.
   (C)   Penalties for violations of §
110.09 shall be as provided in said Tex. Alcoholic Beverage Code.
(Ord. 6, passed 6-9-1960; Ord. 12-64, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 11-3-90, passed
12-7-1990; Ord. 0615-1, passed 6-22-2015)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Definitions
Licenses, Application, Procedures and Appeals
   
111.15   License required
   
111.16   Application and procedures
   
111.17   Investigation of applicant
   
111.18   Issuance of licenses
   
111.19   Denial, suspension and revocation of licenses
   
111.20   Applicants right of appeal
Regulations
   
111.35   Violation
   
111.36   Itinerant vendors interfering with person in public places or the
ringing of bells, using loud speakers
   
111.37   Exemption from licenses requirements
   
111.38   Exercise of police powers
   
111.39   Posting of notice by city
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be named the “Itinerant Vendors Ordinance”.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person, firm or corporation which makes application for
issuance of itinerant vendor’s licenses with the Chief of Police of the city.
   CENTRAL REGISTRY. The listing and/or registry maintained by the city of any
person who requests that his or her name and address be listed for purpose of
prevention of itinerant merchants coming upon the address shown in the listing
or registry.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the city as appointed by the City
Council.
   CITY. The City of Lindsay, Texas.
   GOODS. All the wares, merchandise, food products and services but shall not
include food products that are grown, produced and harvested by the person
selling the same.
   IDENTIFICATION BADGE. The name identification furnished or approved by the
city.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, firm or corporation who sells or offers to
sell or conducts sales of goods by any of the methods described in the
definitions for “peddler” and “solicitor” at the location within the limits of
the city and within a building consisting of four walls and a roof or any other
structure, tent, from a vehicle or upon an open tract of land for a period of
less than 60 days.
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Includes all peddlers, solicitors or itinerant merchants,
applicants and their agents, servants, employees and representatives as any of
those terms are defined herein.
   LICENSES. The license or permit issued by the Chief of Police of the city.
   MOBILE FROZEN DAIRY FOOD VENDORS. Any person who operates a vehicle on the
streets of the city for the purposes of soliciting sales of frozen dairy food
either made, produced at the time of the sale or wrapped in paper or foil
covering.
   NON-PROFIT ORGANIZATION. Any organization that is exempt under the provision
of the United States Internal Revenue Code § 501c(3).
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   Any person, whether a resident of the city or not:
         (a)   Traveling by foot, wagon, automobile vehicle or any other type
of conveyance from place to place, from house to house or from street to
street, and carrying, conveying or transporting any goods, wares and/or
merchandise, including food products that are not grown, produced or harvested
by the person offering and exposing the same for sale or making sales and
delivering articles to purchasers; or
         (b)   One who, without traveling from place to place, shall sell or
offer for sale from a wagon, automobile vehicle, rail car or other vehicle or
conveyance carrying, conveying or transporting any goods, wares and/or
merchandise, including food products that are not grown, produced or harvested
by the person offering and exposing the same for sale or making sales and
delivering articles to purchasers.
      (2)   One who solicits orders as a separate transaction, makes deliveries
to persons as part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this
definition shall be deemed a PEDDLER, subject to provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   The word PEDDLER shall include the term hawker, huckster and mobile
frozen dairy food vendors.
   REPRESENTATIVES. Includes all peddlers, solicitors or itinerant merchants,
applicants and their agents, servants, employees and contractors.
   SALES ACTIVITY. The activities of any itinerant vendor in the sale or
solicitation of orders or contributions to any charitable entity and any sales
activities described in this chapter or other definition in this section.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   Any individual, whether or a resident of the city or not, traveling
either by foot, wagon, automobile vehicle, motor truck or other type of
conveyance from place to place, from house to house or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares and/or
merchandise, including food products that are not grown, produced or harvested
by the person, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery,
or for services of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services
to be furnished immediately or performed in the future, whether or not such
individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject as such
sale or not.
      (2)   The term SOLICITOR shall include any person who, for himself,
herself or another person, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, tent, railroad car, boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment, shop
or other place within the city for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and
taking orders for future delivery.
      (3)   Such terms shall include itinerant photographers and all persons
who solicit donations to or sales activity for any non-profit charitable
entity.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
LICENSES, APPLICATION, PROCEDURES AND APPEALS
§ 111.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person desiring to conduct sales activity in the city as an itinerant
vendor shall have a license issued by the Chief of Police of the city. It is
unlawful for an itinerant vendor to conduct sales activity in the city without
a license.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.16 APPLICATION AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Generally. Every person desiring a license to conduct sales activity
in the city as an itinerant vendor shall make a written application therefor to
the Chief of Police. Applications may be picked up from the Chief of Police or
City Secretary.
   (B)   Application. The application shall be made on a form approved by the
Chief of Police and state the following:
      (1)   Name and business address and phone number of applicant;
      (2)   Name, address and phone number of the person, firm or corporation
applicant is representing; the agent for service of process of a corporation
and/or name and address of any owner of a business not incorporated and the
assumed name of said business filed in the index in the county of its home
office, for any business;
      (3)   Attached to the application shall be a certified original copy of
sales tax permit issued by the Comptroller of the state;
      (4)   Statement of the kind, type and character of solicitation and/or
the goods that applicant will offer for sale, and state whether the purchaser
of such wares or goods shall be required to make any deposit or advance payment
of purchase price before delivery and a complete and full statement of the
delivery date;
      (5)   The period of time the applicant wishes to sell or solicit in the
city;
      (6)   Location or area of the city where sales activity will be conducted
within the city;
      (7)   List of all convictions of all felonies, misdemeanors and
violations of this chapter of applicant and representatives, stating the
offense, city and state, the court of conviction and the punishment imposed;
      (8)   Name and phone number of three character witnesses for applicant
who can be contacted within 48 hours;
      (9)   If sales are to be conducted from one or more stationary locations
the applicant shall submit written consent of the property owner or its
authorized agent consenting to applicant’s use of such private property for
sales activity indicated in permit application;
      (10)   Names of each employee, agent or representative for whom the
applicant will sell, offer, exhibit or solicit orders for the sale of goods,
wares or merchandise for or on behalf of the applicant;
      (11)   The name of all cities in which the applicant has conducted sales
activity in the last 180 days;
      (12)   Must be accompanied by a valid driver’s license or identification
with photo; and
      (13)   The application shall be made under oath of the applicant.
   (C)   Duration of licenses. A license granted under this chapter shall be
valid for 180 days but may be renewed once for 180 days, if made within the
initial 180-day period of the original licenses. Each applicant or
representative for renewal must verify permit information as correct and file
copies of sales tax returned for the prior license period.
   (D)   Application and renewal fees.
      (1)   A fee of $50 shall be charged for processing said application to
partially defray the expenses of enforcing the provisions of this chapter. Such
fee is nonrefundable.
      (2)   A renewal of application shall be $25 if submitted within 180 days
of the original application.
   (E)   License nontransferable. Any license issued under this chapter is not
transferable.
   (F)   Non-profit charitable organization exemption from fee. Non-profit
charitable organizations which engage in the sales activities defined by this
chapter shall be required to comply with the terms of this chapter except from
the payment of the application fee. Such organizations shall, for each worker
or volunteer for such organization be required to furnish to the Chief of
Police the names and addresses of all workers or volunteers and provide them
with identification badges prior to engaging in any sales activities.
Identification badges shall be a card of at least three inches by three inches
bearing the name of the salesperson, the name of the non-profit organization,
the goods to be sold and the city permit number, and shall be approved by the
Chief of Police.
   (G)   Markets. Markets, commonly known as flea markets, which engage in
multiple sales activities conducted by multiple vendors displaying their goods
shall be required to comply with the provisions of this chapter but shall only
be required to obtain a license; provided the person responsible for such
market shall list each vendor and such vendor’s address on the application for
a license.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997; Ord. 09-02-05, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 111.17 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   Upon application for license being made by the applicant for license as an
itinerant vendor, the Chief of Police shall investigate and verify the
correctness of the application.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 111.18 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   The Chief of Police, upon the completion of investigation, shall issue a
permit to the applicant unless it is determined that a violation of §
111.19 has occurred.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 111.19 DENIAL, SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may deny, suspend or revoke an applicant’s license
where it determines that:
      (1)   The applicant has given false or misleading information in its
application for license;
      (2)   The applicant has sold goods within the previous 30 days in the
city, in violation of this chapter or violated other applicable laws and
ordinances, pertaining to sales activity in the course of such sale;
      (3)   The applicant has employed, contracted or otherwise associated or
enlisted unlicensed representatives to conduct sales activity in violation of
this chapter;
      (4)   The applicant or representative has permitted any person, not
identified in its application, to conduct sales activity while displaying a
license issued to such applicant;
      (5)   The applicant or representative has unlawfully duplicated,
reproduced or altered any license or any identification badge for the purpose
of circumventing the provisions of this chapter;
      (6)   The applicant or representative presents or exhibits a false or
altered license to any purchaser of goods, or to the Chief of Police;
      (7)   The applicant or representative fails to display conspicuously its
license or identification badge in the course of its sales activity within the
city;
      (8)   The applicant or representative engages in the sale of goods of a
character or in such a manner as to endanger the health, safety, morals or
welfare of the public;
      (9)   The applicant or representative fails to obey any lawful order of
the Chief of Police;
      (10)   The applicant or representative fails to appear in Municipal Court
with respect to a summons or citation issued for violation of this chapter;
      (11)   The applicant or representative fails to supply requested
information pertaining to its state sales tax permit;
      (12)   The applicant or representative is found to be selling goods at
retail without a valid state sales tax permit;
      (13)   The applicant violates any law or regulation of the state
pertaining to registration, filing of reports or payment of any applicable
state sales tax;
      (14)   The applicant’s state sales tax permit is suspended, expires or is
revoked under state law;
      (15)   The applicant or representative engages in the sale of goods not
stated in its application; and
      (16)   The applicant has sold goods within the previous 180 days in
another city or state, in violation of any ordinance or applicable laws
regulating itinerant vendors.
   (B)   Any licenses issued hereunder which may be suspended for violation of
this section and/or §
111.16(A) by the Chief of Police by oral or written notice to the applicant
provided that at the time of the notice of suspension that a hearing is stated
to occur within ten days at which hearing the applicant may offer proof why the
licenses should not be revoked. Upon the conclusion of the hearing, the Chief
of Police may either reinstate the licenses or revoke the same.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 111.20 APPLICANTS RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   If the application for license is denied or once issued is revoked by the
Chief of Police, the applicant has the right to appeal to the City Council by
filing a written notice of such appeal with the Chief of Police within ten days
after the denial or revocation by the Chief of Police. Upon the filing of such
notice of appeal, the application and all papers possessed by the Chief of
Police in connection with such application shall be delivered to the City
Council and such matters as may be in controversy shall be heard by the City
Council at its next regular meeting after the filing of the notice of appeal.
The Council shall have the same powers and authority at such hearing on such
appeal as are by this chapter invested in the Chief of Police upon suspension.
This right of appeal set out herein is a condition precedent to the applicant’s
seeking any other judicial relief in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
REGULATIONS
§ 111.35 VIOLATION.
   It is a violation of this chapter for:
   (A)   Any applicant or its representative to conduct sales activity in the
city unless the city has issued to the applicant a license under this chapter;
   (B)   Any applicant or his, her or its representative to conduct any sales
activity at the home, residence or abode of any person in the city before 8:00
a.m. or after 8:00 p.m., except where the occupant of the property has invited
the person conducting the sale activity upon the property;
   (C)   Any person to solicit funds for a charitable purpose other than that
which is set out in the application upon which the permit was issued;
   (D)   Any person to conduct any sales activity while not displaying an
identification badge issued or approved by the city;
   (E)   Any person to conduct sales activity while displaying an
identification badge issued by the city in the name of another person,
organization or entity of which the individual is not a representative and
stated on the application of the applicant;
   (F)   Any person to conduct sales activity within the corporate limits of
the city after the expiration of the license issued by the city;
   (G)   Any person to conduct sales activity within the corporate limits of
the city without a license;
   (H)   Any person to conduct sales activity within the corporate limits of
the city for a purpose other than that which is set out in the application upon
which the license was issued;
   (I)   Any person or its representative to represent that the issuance of a
license by the city constitutes an endorsement or approval of the purposes of a
solicitation or product for sale, by the city;
   (J)   Any person, applicant or its representative to go upon the premises of
any house, abode or residence of any citizen of the city, where there is posted
a sign stating “No Solicitation” or other notice indicating that no
solicitation is to occur on the premises, notice of trespass under the Tex.
Penal Code or the premises have been posted by a conspicuous sign; and
   (K)   Any person, applicant or its representative to go upon the premises of
any house, abode or residence of any citizen of the city, where the residence
or premise is listed in the central registry.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 111.36 ITINERANT VENDORS INTERFERING WITH PERSON IN PUBLIC PLACES OR THE
RINGING OF BELLS, USING LOUD SPEAKERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in sales activity or
solicitation of funds to stop or detain any person upon the street, sidewalk or
public place of the city, or in any manner to harass or disturb any person, or
take hold of any person or any article belonging to or possessed by such
person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any itinerant vendor to use bells, loud
speakers or sound amplifying systems upon any of the streets, alleys, parks or
other public place of the city or upon any private premises in the city where
the sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom to be capable
of being heard plainly upon the streets, avenues, alleys, parks or other public
place for the purposes of attracting attention to any goods which is purposed
for sale; provided that a mobile frozen dairy food vendor may ring chimes,
bells or use any sound device, including a sound amplification system to play
music upon the streets, parks or other public places of the city between 8:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 EXEMPTION FROM LICENSES REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to commercial travelers who
sell or exhibit for sale goods or merchandise to persons engaged in the
business of buying and selling and dealing in such goods for resale at
wholesale or retail.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 111.38 EXERCISE OF POLICE POWERS.
   The entire chapter is and shall be deemed an exercise in police powers of
the state, and of the city for the public safety, convenience, comfort and
protection of the city and its citizens, and all of the provisions hereof shall
be construed for the accomplishment of that purpose.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 111.39 POSTING OF NOTICE BY CITY.
   Each United States and state-maintained highways, entering the city, shall
have a sign advising travelers of the highway of the requirement for a license
under this chapter. The Chief of Police shall cause such to be erected and
maintained.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision
of this chapter, or who fails to comply with any of the provisions herein,
within the corporate limits of the city, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $75 nor more than
$200. Each event or violation shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable accordingly.
   (B)   Civil remedies. The city may bring suit for civil remedies, including
injunctive relief and for damages for violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-97, passed 4-7-1997)
CHAPTER 112: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   Classification
   
112.04   License required
   
112.05   Issuance of a license
   
112.06   Fees
   
112.07   Inspection
   
112.08   Suspension
   
112.09   Revocation
   
112.10   Appeal
   
112.11   Transfer of license
   
112.12   Location of sexually oriented businesses
   
112.13   Exemption from location restrictions
   
112.14   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
112.15   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
112.16   Additional regulations for adult theaters and adult motion picture
theaters
   
112.17   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
112.18   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films or
videos
   
112.19   Display of sexually explicit material to minors
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to
prevent the concentration of sexually oriented businesses within the city. The
provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a
limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative materials,
including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market.
   (B)   It is the intent of the City Council that the locational regulations
of §
112.12 of this chapter are regulated pursuant to Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, Chapter
243, as they apply to nude model studios and sexual encounter centers only. (It
is the intent of the City Council that all other provisions of this chapter are
promulgated pursuant to the City Charter and Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, §§ 54.004
and 215.075.)
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. A commercial establishment which as
one of its principal business purposes offers for sale or rental for any form
of consideration any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, other visual
representations which depict or describe specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas;
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video
reproductions, computer generated images, slide pictures or other visual
representations, which depict or describe specified anatomical areas, for
viewing, in part or entirely upon or within the premises of the sexually
oriented business.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar commercial
establishment which regularly feature:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
      (2)   Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas, for viewing, in part or entirely upon or within the
premises of the sexually oriented business;
      (3)   Motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction of description of
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
      (4)   Contests between patrons or guests for prizes or other
consideration that require or encourage the display of specified anatomical
areas, nudity or partial nudity, that involves the appearance of a human bare
buttock, anus, male genitals, female genitals or female breast; or that results
in a state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock, anus, male
genitals, female genitals or aureole of the female breast.
   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions
which are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than ten hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment where, for any form
of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity
or live performance which are characterized by the exposure of specified
anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
   CHIEF OF POLICE. The Chief of Police of the City of Lindsay or his or her
designated agent.
   ESCORT. A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish or advertises to furnish escorts, as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE. A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who appears in a state of nudity
or displays specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched,
drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons
who pay money or any form of consideration.
   NUDITY or A STATE OF NUDITY.
      (1)   The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals or female breast; or
      (2)   A state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals or aureole of the female breast.
   OPERATES or CAUSED TO BE OPERATED. To cause to function or to put or keep in
operation. A person may be found to be OPERATING or CAUSING TO BE OPERATED a
sexually oriented business whether or not that person is an owner, part owner
or licensee of the business.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association
or other legal entity.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. A single-family, two-family, four-family, multiple-
family or mobile home zoning district as defined in the city zoning ordinance.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. A single-family, duplex, multiple-family or mobile home
park, mobile home subdivision and campground use as defined in the city zoning
ordinance.
   SEMI-NUDE. A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region and aureole of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its primary business purposes offers for any form of consideration:
      (1)   Physical conduct in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or is semi-
nude.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling of other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, anus or female breasts;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or stimulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
   SUBSTANTIAL ENLARGEMENT OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. The increase in
floor area occupied by the business by more than 25%, as the floor area exists
on date of adoption of this chapter.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Includes
any of the following:
      (1)   The sale, lease or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange or similar means; or
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift or other similar legal devise
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995; Ord. 09031, passed 9-8-2003)
§ 112.03 CLASSIFICATION.
   Sexually oriented businesses are classified as follows:
   (A)   Adult arcades;
   (B)   Adult bookstore or adult video stores;
   (C)   Adult cabarets;
   (D)   Adult motels;
   (E)   Adult motion picture theaters;
   (F)   Adult theaters;
   (G)   Escort agencies;
   (H)   Nude model studios; and
   (I)   Sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 112.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates a sexually oriented
business without a valid license, issued by the city for the particular type of
business.
   (B)   (1)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by
the Chief of Police.
      (2)   The application form shall be sworn to and shall:
         (a)   Include the name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   State whether or not the applicant meets each requirement set
forth in §
112.05;
         (c)   Name and address of each person required to sign the application
pursuant to division (B)(2)(d) below, and the name, address and phone number of
entity (if any) of each person or entity owned or controlled by such which owns
or controls an interest in the business to be licensed; and
         (d)   Such other matters, consistent with this chapter, as may be
specified in the application form. The application must be accompanied by a
sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram
need not be professionally prepared but must be drawn to designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus six inches. Applicants who must comply with §
112.18 shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of §
112.18.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he or she must sign the application for a license as applicant. If
a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has 10% or greater interest in the business
must sign and submit as an applicant, a separate application containing all
applicable information required by division (B) above.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall approve the issuance of a license by the
City Secretary to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application
unless he or she finds one or more of the following to be true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse is overdue in his or her
payment to the city of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against him or
her or imposed upon him or her in relation to a sexually oriented business;
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form;
      (4)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
violation of a provision of this chapter, other than the offense of operating a
sexually oriented business without a license, within two years immediately
preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect;
      (5)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      (6)   An applicant has been employed in a sexually oriented business in a
managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and has demonstrated that he
or she is unable to operate or manage a sexually oriented business premises in
a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law enforcement
officers;
      (7)   An applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with §§
112.07,
112.12,
112.13,
112.15,
112.16,
112.17,
112.18,
112.19 or
112.99;
      (8)   An applicant or an applicant’s spouse has been convicted of a
crime:
         (a)   Involving;
            1.   Any of the following offenses as described in the Tex. Penal
Code, Chapter 43:
               a.   Prostitution;
               b.   Promotion of prostitution;
               c.   Aggravated promotion of prostitution;
               d.   Compelling prostitution;
               e.   Obscenity;
               f.   Sale, distribution or display of harmful material to minor;
               g.   Sexual performance by a child; and
               h.   Possession of child pornography.
            2.   Any of the following offenses as described in the Tex. Penal
Code, Chapter 21:
               a.   Public lewdness;
               b.   Indecent exposure; and
               c.   Indecency with a child.
            3.   Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault as described in
the Tex. Penal Code, Chapter 22;
            4.   Incest, solicitation of a child or harboring a runaway child
as described in the Tex. Penal Code, Chapter 25; or
            5.   Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit any of
the above offenses.
         (b)   For which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
latest date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years elapsed since the date of last conviction
or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor offenses or
combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-month period.
   (B)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant or applicant’s spouse.
   (C)   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted
of an offense listed in division (A)(8) above may qualify for a sexually
oriented business license only when the time period required by division (A)(8)
(b) above has elapsed.
   (D)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date and the address of
the sexually oriented business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous
place at or near the entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may
be easily read at any time.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 112.06 FEES.
   The annual fee for a sexually oriented business license is $250.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 112.07 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Police
Department, Health Department, Fire Department and Building Inspection Division
to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for the purposes of
ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or open for
business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits an offense if he or she refuses to permit a lawful
inspection of the premises by representative of the Police Department at any
time it is occupied or open for business.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 SUSPENSION.
   The Chief of Police shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30
days if he or she determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated or is not in compliance with §§
112.07,
112.12,
112.13,
112.15,
112.16,
112.17,
112.18,
112.19 or
112.99;
   (B)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the sexually
oriented business premises;
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the sexually oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter;
   (D)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually oriented
business premises; and
   (E)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
this section occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a license if he or she determines
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the Chief of Police during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when then licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
112.05(A)(8)(b) limit has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
112.05(A)(8)(a), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
persons were employees of the sexually oriented business at the time the
offenses were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act or sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises. The term sexual contact shall have the same
meaning as it is defined in Tex. Penal Code, § 21.01; or
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city or hotel occupancy
taxes, ad valorem taxes or sales taxes related to the sexually oriented
business.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Division (B)(7) above does not apply to adult motels as a ground for
revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly allowed the act
sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or sexual contact to
occur in a public place or within public view.
   (E)   When the Chief of Police revokes a license, the revocation shall
continue for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented
business license for one year from the date revocation became effective. If,
subsequent to revocation, the Chief of Police finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. If the license was revoked under division (B)(5) above, an applicant
may not be granted another license until the appropriate number of years
required under §
112.05(A)(8)(b) has elapsed.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 112.10 APPEAL.
   If the Chief of Police denies the issuance of a license, or suspends or
revokes a license, he or she shall send to the applicant, or licensee, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of his or her action
and the right to appeal. Upon receipt of written notice of the denial,
suspension or revocation, the licensee whose application for a license has been
denied or whose license has been suspended or revoked shall have the right to
appeal to the State District Court. An appeal to the State District Court must
be filed within 30 days after the receipt of notice or the decision of the
Chief of Police. The licensee shall bear the burden of proof in court.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 112.11 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she operates or causes to be
operated a sexually oriented business within 1,500 feet of:
      (1)   A church;
      (2)   A public or private elementary or secondary school;
      (3)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   A public park adjacent to a residential district as defined in this
chapter; or
      (5)   The property line of a lot devoted to a residential use as defined
in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer of ownership or
control of a sexually oriented business within 1,500 feet of another sexually
oriented business.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she causes or permits the
operation, establishment or maintenance of more than one sexually oriented
business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof, or the increase
of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any building, structure or
portion thereof containing another sexually oriented business.
   (D)   For the purposes of division (A) above, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church or public or private elementary or secondary
school, or to the nearest boundary of an affected public park, residential
district or residential lot.
   (E)   For purposes of division (B) above, the distance between any two
sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight line, without
regard to intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of
the structure in which each business is located.
   (F)   Any sexually oriented business lawfully operating or that is in
violation of divisions (A), (B) or (C) above shall be deemed a nonconforming
use. The nonconforming use will be permitted to continue for a period not to
exceed three years, unless sooner terminated for any reason or voluntarily
discontinued for a period of 30 days or more. Such nonconforming uses shall not
be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except that the use may be changed
to a conforming use. If two or more sexually oriented businesses are within
1,500 feet of one another and otherwise in a permissible location, the sexually
oriented business which was first established and continually operating at a
particular location is the conforming use and the later-established business
(es) is nonconforming.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a nonconforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant or
renewal of the sexually oriented business license, of a church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, public park, residential district or
residential lot within 1,500 feet of the sexually oriented business. This
provision applies only on the renewal of a valid license, and does not apply
when an application for a license if submitted after a license has expired or
has been revoked.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.13 EXEMPTION FROM LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   If the Chief of Police denies the issuance of a license to an
applicant because the location of the sexually oriented business establishment
is in violation of §
112.12, then the applicant may, not later than ten calendar days after
receiving notice of the denial, file with the City Secretary a written request
for an exemption from the locational restrictions of §
112.12.
   (B)   If the written request is filed with the City Secretary within the
ten-day limit, the City Council, acting as a permit and license appeal board,
shall consider the request. The City Secretary shall set a date for the hearing
within 60 days from the date the written request is received.
   (C)   A hearing by the City Council may proceed if at least four of the
Council members are present. The Council shall hear and consider evidence
offered by an interested person. The formal rules of evidence did not apply.
   (D)   The City Council shall grant an exemption from the locational
restrictions of §
112.12 if it makes the following findings:
      (1)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business will not
have a detrimental effect on nearby properties or be contrary to the public
safety or welfare;
      (2)   The granting of the exemption will not violate the spirit and
intent of this chapter of the city code;
      (3)   The location of the proposed sexually oriented business will not
downgrade the property values or quality of life in the adjacent areas or
encourage the development of urban blight;
      (4)   The location of an additional sexually oriented business in the
area will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conservation nor will
it interfere with any efforts of urban renewal or restoration; and
      (5)   All other applicable provisions of this chapter will be observed.
   (E)   The Council shall grant or deny the exemption by a majority vote.
Failure to reach a majority vote shall result in denial of the exemption.
Disputes of fact shall be decided on the basis of a preponderance of the
evidence. The decision of the City Council is final.
   (F)   If the Council grants the exemption, the exemption is valid for one
year from the date of the Council’s action. Upon the expiration of an
exemption, the sexually oriented business is in violation of the locational
restrictions of §
112.12 until the applicant applies for and receives another exemption.
   (G)   If the Council denies the exemption, the applicant may not re-apply
for an exemption until at least 12 months have elapsed since the date of the
Council’s action.
   (H)   The grant of an exemption does not exempt the applicant from any other
provisions of this chapter other than the locational restrictions of §
112.12.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 112.14 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.15 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model studio. It
is a defense to prosecution under this section if the nudity occurred in a
restroom not open to the public view or persons of the opposite sex.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if he or she appears in a state of nudity
or knowingly allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude
model studio premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT THEATERS AND ADULT MOTION PICTURE
THEATERS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if he or she knowingly allows a person
under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises
of an adult theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years commits an offense if he or she
knowingly appears in a state of nudity in or on the premises of an adult
theater or adult motion picture theater.
   (C)   It is a defense to prosecution under divisions (A) and (B) above if
the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to the public view or
persons of the opposite sex.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.17 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than one hour creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that does not have a
sexually oriented business license, he or she rents or subrents a sleeping room
to a person and, within ten hours form the time the room is rented, he or she
rents or subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) above, the terms RENT or SUBRENT mean the
act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of consideration.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS.
   (A)   Persons who operate, or causes to be operated, a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room or less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Upon application for a sexually oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager’s stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted. A manager’s station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted, a professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer’s or architect’s blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated street or
object and should be drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions
sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior
of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches. The Chief of Police
may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal applications if the application
adopts a diagram that was previously submitted and certifies that the
configuration of the premises has not been altered since it was prepared.
      (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
      (3)   No alteration, in the configuration or location of a manager’s
station, may be made without the prior approval of the Chief of Police.
      (4)   It is the duty of the owners or operators of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager’s station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
      (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from a manager’s station of every area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager’s stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager’s stations. The view required in
this division (A)(5) must be by direct line of sight from the manager’s
station.
      (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the view areas specified in division (A)(5) above remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display reaches or other material at all times that
any patron is present in the premises and to ensure that no patron is permitted
access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area in
which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant to
division (A)(1) above.
      (7)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than one foot candle as measured at the
floor level.
      (8)   It shall be the duty of the owner(s) and operator and it shall also
be the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that
the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (B)   A person having a duty under divisions (A)(1) through (A)(8) above
commits an offense if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that duty.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.19 DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL TO MINORS.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if, in a business establishment open to
persons under the age of 17 years, he or she displays a book, pamphlet,
newspaper, magazine, film or video cassette, the cover of which depicts, in a
manner calculated to arouse sexual lust or passion for commercial gain or to
exploit sexual lust or perversion for commercial gain, any of the following:
      (1)   Human sexual intercourse, masturbation or sodomy;
      (2)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts;
      (3)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, buttocks
or that portion of the female breast below the top of the aureole; or
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, whether covered
or uncovered.
   (B)   In this section DISPLAY means to locate an item in such a manner that,
without obtaining assistance from an employee of the business establishment:
      (1)   It is available to the general public for handling and inspection;
or
      (2)   The cover or outside packaging on the item is visible to members of
the general public.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Except as provided by division (B) below, any person violating §
112.14, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000.
   (B)   If the sexually oriented business involved is a nude model studio or
sexual encounter center, then violation of §§
112.04(A) or
112.14 is punishable as a Class A misdemeanor.
   (C)   Except as provided by division (B) above, any person violating a
provision of this chapter other than §
112.14, upon conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed $200.
   (D)   It is a defense to prosecution under §§
112.04(A),
112.14 or
112.15(D) that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling
class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school licensed by the state, a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
      (3)   In a structure:
         (a)   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and
no other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing;
         (b)   Where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll
at least three days in advance of the class; and
         (c)   Where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
   (E)   It is a defense to prosecution under §
112.04(A) or §
112.12 that each item of descriptive, printed, film or video material offered
for sale or rental, taken as a whole contains serious literary, artistic,
political, or scientific value.
   (F)   The violation of any provision of this chapter relating to the
maintaining of a public nuisance as described herein or in permitting or
allowing such public nuisance to exist shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $200 and each day’s violation thereof shall be and is hereby declared
to be a distinct and separate offense and punishable as such.
(Ord. 11-95, passed 11-6-1995; Ord. 09031, passed 9-8-2003)
CHAPTER 113: SNO CONE STANDS
Section
   
113.01   Authorized; definition
   
113.02   Equipment
   
113.03   Location
   
113.04   Application
   
113.05   Permits and licenses
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 AUTHORIZED; DEFINITION.
   (A)   Sno Cone stands are authorized within the city limits.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SNO CONE STAND. A temporary-seasonal permitted facility which prepares
and offers for sale to the public only non-potentially hazardous foods, such as
nondairy confectionary items consisting of shaved ice and sugar-based
flavorings. Other commercially prepackaged, non-potentially hazardous foods may
be offered for sale, if approved by state health regulations.
(Ord. 0612-1, passed 7-16-2012)
§ 113.02 EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The stand shall have at least one basin used strictly for hand
washing purposes, and a sufficient supply of potable water to be used for hand
washing.
      (2)   Said water shall be provided by means of a properly designed and
constructed freshwater holding tank, and may be mechanically pumped or provided
via gravity flow.
      (3)   Another holding tank shall be provided and installed, to retain the
wastewater produced.
   (B)   The stand shall meet all other standards of construction for food
service establishments, such as smooth, easily cleanable surfaces, screened
windows and shielded lights.
   (C)   Any and all food products must be from approved sources; no home-
prepared flavoring or production of ice for service from an unpermitted source
shall be allowed.
(Ord. 0612-1, passed 7-16-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 LOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   Sno Cone stands shall be located on the same property as an
established business and must be with the permission of the property owner.
      (2)   It may not interfere or disrupt the flow of traffic or established
required parking spaces.
   (B)   Sno Cone stands are only allowed within commercially-zoned districts.
(Ord. 0612-1, passed 7-16-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a Sno Cone stand must make written
application for a permit on forms provided at City Hall.
   (B)   The application must contain the name and address of each applicant,
the location of the proposed stand and the $50 non-refundable fee.
   (C)   An incomplete application will not be accepted. Failure to provide all
required information or falsifying information may result in denial or
revocation of the permit.
   (D)   All permits are good for 90 days. Re-application for a permit can be
made 180 days after the previous permit has expired.
(Ord. 0612-1, passed 7-16-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 PERMITS AND LICENSES.
   Sno Cone stand owners/operators are responsible for obtaining all permits
and/or licenses required by the city, the state and the county. Waivers for
permits required by the city may be granted to city, school, church and other
civic organizations for events upon satisfactory proof of compliance with
current health and safety regulations by a recognized city, school, church or
civic organization.
(Ord. 0612-1, passed 7-16-2012) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $200.
(Ord. 0612-1, passed 7-16-2012)
CHAPTER 114: TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING STUDIOS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Limitation on location
   
114.03   Amendment of zoning ordinance
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the terms TATTOO STUDIO and BODY PIERCING
STUDIO shall have the definitions as stated in the Tex. Health and Safety Code,
Chapter 146.
(Ord. 0105-1, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 114.02 LIMITATION ON LOCATION.
   (A)   No tattoo studio or body piercing studio shall be situated in any
location within the city nearer than 1,000 feet as taken in the most direct
measurement from the nearest part of the building in which the tattoo studio or
body piercing studio is located or housed to the property line of any church,
school or private residence within the city or the extraterritorial
jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Tattoo studios and body piercing studios may not be located in any
zoning district other than I-1, Light Industrial District, as defined in the
zoning ordinance of the city.
(Ord. 0105-1, passed 1-10-2005) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 AMENDMENT OF ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The zoning ordinance of the city, being Ord. 4-93-01, as amended, is hereby
amended to provide for the location of tattoo studios and body piercing studios
in the Light Industrial (I-1) District: Article III, District Regulations, §
3.06, paragraph no. 2, is amended to add line X. Tattoo studios and body
piercing studios.
(Ord. 0105-1, passed 1-10-2005)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. In case the owner or operator of the
premises shall be a corporation and shall violate any provision of this
chapter, the President, Vice-President, Secretary or Treasurer of such
corporation, or any manager, agent or employee of such corporation shall also
be severally liable for any penalty. Each day that a violation continues shall
be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 0105-1, passed 1-10-2005)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Video Arcades, Electronic Game Rooms and Video Game Arcades
   
115.01   General
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Permit required
   
115.04   Permit application
   
115.05   Information required
   
115.06   Review by City Council
   
115.07   Permit fee
   
115.08   Duration of permits
   
115.09   Nuisance declared
   
115.10   Limitations on locations of business
   
115.11   Location of recreation or amusement machines
   
115.12   Hours of operation
   
115.13   Presence of minors prohibited
   
115.14   Sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages prohibited
 
   
115.99   Penalty
VIDEO ARCADES, ELECTRONIC GAME ROOMS AND VIDEO GAME ARCADES
§ 115.01 GENERAL.
   This subchapter as herein established has been written for the purpose of
promoting and protecting the public health, safety and general welfare of the
community and in the furtherance of conserving the value of property and
establishing a community desirable to reside therein.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED MACHINE USED FOR RECREATION OR AMUSEMENT PURPOSES. Every
machine or device of any kind or character which is operated by or with coins
or metal slugs, tokens or checks and which dispenses or is used or is capable
of being used or operated for amusement, pleasure, skill or recreation. This
term expressly excludes coin-operated music machines, pay toilets, pay
telephones, coin-operated rides for children, and all other coin-operated
machines which dispense or vend merchandise, commodities, confections or music.
This term shall also include machines operated by currency or legal tender.
   ELECTRONIC GAME ROOM or GAME ROOM. A place offering electronic games and
recreation or amusement machines; a place where people pay to play electronic
or video games including eight-liners.
   VIDEO ARCADE. A place offering video games; a place where people pay to play
video games.
   VIDEO GAME ARCADES. A place offering electronic or video games and
recreation or amusement machines; a place where people pay to play electronic
or video games and recreation or amusement machines.
   VIDEO GAMES. A game played against a computer or other electronic device for
amusement or prizes.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 115.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this subchapter for any person
acting for himself or herself or acting as an agent, employee, independent
contractor or servant of any other person to commence a video arcade,
electronic game room or video game arcade within the city limits without a
permit having been issued by the authority of the City Council in accordance
with the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Permits required by this subchapter shall be issued only after an
application, in the form of an affidavit, is executed in duplicate and
presented to the City Secretary, which application shall be referred to any
appropriate city or county officials, such as City Engineer, City Attorney,
Fire Marshal, County Attorney, County Treasurer, County Planning Department for
recommendations to the City Council which must consider the application and
approve or deny such application.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 115.05 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Each application for a permit must include all of the following information
in detail before it can be accepted by the City Secretary and referred to the
appropriate city or county official or agency:
   (A)   The identity and residence address of the applicant;
   (B)   The identity and residence address of the owner of the land where the
facility will be located;
   (C)   The location and legal description of the land where the facility will
be located;
   (D)   A positive statement that any city, county, school district ad valorem
taxes have been paid and are current concerning the land where the facility
will be located;
   (E)   A positive statement that no private residences and no church or
school are within 300 feet of the proposed facility as measured in the most
direct manner;
   (F)   A statement as to proposed days and hours of operation; and
   (G)   A statement as to safety precautions to be in place for the safety of
patrons of the facility as to fire protection requirements and police
accessibility.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 115.06 REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Within 60 days after receipt of an application for a permit, the City
Council shall review and consider the application and shall grant or refuse the
permit in accordance with the terms of this subchapter and the review by the
appropriate city or county officials or agencies.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 115.07 PERMIT FEE.
   On submission of an application for a permit, a fee shall also be submitted
for the adequate administration, inspection, regulation and enforcement of this
subchapter in the amount of $250. This fee is not refundable.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 115.08 DURATION OF PERMITS.
   Each permit shall be issued for a maximum period of one year, after which
period the permit is void and the person to whom the permit was issued must
make a new application for a new permit for each succeeding year or portion of
a year that a video arcade, electronic game room or video game arcade is
operated or maintained inside the city limits.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 115.09 NUISANCE DECLARED.
   Because of the rapid proliferation of such businesses in the city and the
observed congestion, late hours, potential for being an attractive nuisance to
minors and the questioned legality of such activities, the City Council hereby
finds that a further proliferation and concentration of such businesses
constitutes a nuisance to the health, safety and welfare of the city.
Accordingly, subsequent to the passage of this subchapter, no license will be
issued for any such establishment unless such is at least 300 feet in a direct
line from any of its public entrances to the nearest property line of a church,
residence, school or another business entity operating under a license issued
under this subchapter. Any businesses existing as of the time of the passage of
this subchapter shall be permitted to continue, however, if they should cease
operations, or violate any of the provisions of this subchapter or any other
applicable city, state or federal law, their license shall be subject to
revocation and such may not be renewed unless they meet all provisions of any
applicable law including the above spacing requirements.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.10 LIMITATIONS ON LOCATIONS OF BUSINESS.
   No permit shall be issued for any video arcade, electronic game room, game
room or video game arcade which is located nearer than 300 feet of any exterior
property line of any church or school or residence.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.11 LOCATION OF RECREATION OR AMUSEMENT MACHINES.
   (A)   The recreation or amusement machines which are operated for profit
within a place of business shall not be left unattended.
   (B)   Within each place of business in which recreation or amusement
machines are operated for a profit, the machines will be so situated so that
the said machines will be in full, open, public view.
   (C)   The term FULL, OPEN, PUBLIC VIEW, as used in this subchapter shall
mean that the machines are clearly and plainly visible from the exterior of the
front of the building. The front of a building, as used here, is that side of
the structure where the main entrance is located or that side of a structure
which fronts a street; provided, however, if the playing of the recreation or
amusement machines is in a recreation center where the majority of the public
is engaged in an activity other than the playing of the machines, the machines
shall be in full, open, public view if the recreation and amusement machines
are clearly and plainly visible from the areas of the building where the other
activities are being performed.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004)
§ 115.12 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person may engage in the operation for profit of any recreation or
amusement machines within the city between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00
a.m., Monday through Thursday, and between the hours of 2:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m.
on Friday and Saturday. Such recreation or amusement machines may be operated
on Sundays only between the hours of 1:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.13 PRESENCE OF MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who shall own or operate a video arcade,
electronic game room or video game arcade to allow any person under the age of
18 years to be present without the presence of a parent or guardian of that
minor.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.14 SALE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   The sale of alcoholic beverages in or on the premises licensed under this
subchapter is prohibited. No person so licensed shall knowingly permit the
sale, use or consumption of any kind of alcoholic beverages in or upon the
premises for which a license has been issued.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
115.01 through
115.14 shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. In case the owner or
operator of the premises shall be a corporation and shall violate any provision
of §§
115.01 through
115.14, the President, Vice-President, Secretary or Treasurer of such
corporation, or any manager, agent or employee of such corporation shall be
also severally liable for any penalty. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 704-1, passed 7-12-2004)
CHAPTER 116: FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Mobile food vendors
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. A vehicle-mounted food establishment, designed to be
readily movable, typically constructed in a truck or trailer. Mobile food units
may not be permanently parked in one location.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDOR. Any person who sells food products or takes food product
orders and sells such food out of a mobile food unit on premises where there is
no related business building.
(Ord. 1018-1, passed 11-12-2018)
§ 116.02 MOBILE FOOD VENDORS.
   (A)   Required documentation. To obtain a mobile food vendor permit, a
mobile food vendor must submit a list of foods and beverages to be served on
the unit, stating the source of the item and when and where it will be
prepared. A mobile food vendor must also submit plans showing the equipment
layout and the arrangement and construction material of the inside of the unit,
including food preparation, storage, and window service areas. Additionally, a
mobile food vendor must submit written permission from any property owner who
owns property on which the mobile food unit will be parked, regardless of the
time period associated with parking the mobile food unit on said property. A
mobile food vendor must pay the permit fee established in the City of Lindsay
fee schedule at the time of requesting a mobile food vendor permit.
   (B)   Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a mobile food
unit without having obtained a mobile food vendor permit issued by the city.
Permits may be purchased monthly for up to one year from the date of issuance.
   (C)   Inspections.
      (1)   To obtain a mobile food vendor permit, the mobile food unit must
have a current inspection by the city's health inspector to ensure compliance
with this chapter. If a mobile food unit has been inspected by the city's
health inspector on behalf of a different governmental entity within the six
months prior to applying for the mobile food vendor permit, that inspection
shall satisfy the inspection requirement for issuance of the permit. A mobile
food vendor must pay the inspection fee established by the city fee schedule at
the time an inspection of a mobile food unit is requested.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate a mobile food unit in
the city without a valid inspection. An inspection is valid for six months from
the date of inspection.
      (3)   Notwithstanding the inspection requirements of this chapter, a
mobile food unit operating within the city may be inspected at any time by the
city health inspector to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Certified food manager required. A certified food manager must be
present at the mobile food unit at all times during operation.
   (E)   Location. A mobile food vendor may not offer food or food products for
sale while driving or traveling on a public right-of-way in the city.
   (F)   Food source and food protection.
      (1)   All food sold on the unit must be either prepared on the unit or at
an approved, permitted food establishment. Food may not be prepared at home;
food offered for sale must comply with labeling laws where applicable; food
shall be in sound condition, free of spoilage, filth, or any other
contamination and shall be safe for human consumption.
      (2)   Only ice that has been made from potable (drinking) water shall be
used or offered for sale.
      (3)   Ice intended for human consumption shall be used to cool foods,
food containers, or food utensils. Ice used for cooling stored foods and food
containers shall not be used for human consumption.
      (4)   Food, whether raw or prepared, if removed from the original package
or container, shall be stored in a clean, covered, impervious and nonabsorbent
container, except during periods of preparation or service. Solid cuts of meat
shall be protected by being covered during storage.
      (5)   Containers of food shall be stored at least 6 inches above the
floor in a manner that protects food from splash and contamination and permits
easy cleaning of the floor.
      (6)   No food can be stored in toilet rooms or vestibules.
      (7)   No food, including packaged foods, shall be stored in contact with
water or undrained ice. Wrapped sandwiches shall not be stored in direct
contact with ice.
      (8)   Conveniently located refrigeration facilities or effectively
insulated facilities shall be provided to assure that potentially hazardous
foods are maintained at 41°F or below.
      (9)   Potentially hazardous food requiring refrigeration after
preparation shall be rapidly cooled to internal temperatures of 4l°F or below.
Potentially hazardous foods shall not be prepared in quantities so large that
rapid cooling will not be possible.
      (10)   Stored frozen foods shall be kept frozen.
      (11)   The internal hot holding temperature of potentially hazardous food
shall be 135°F or above except during necessary periods of preparation. Each
hot storage unit must have an accurate thermometer available.
      (12)   Live or dead fish bait shall be stored separately from food or
food products.
      (13)   A product (stem type) thermometer is needed to check internal
temperatures of potentially hazardous foods.
   (G)   Utensils. Only single service (plastic or paper) utensils, tableware,
plates, etc., shall be used.
   (H)   Insect and rodent control. All mobile food units shall be constructed
in such a manner as to prevent the entrance of flies, dust, dirt, or other
foreign matter. Mobile food units must be provided with tightfitting solid or
screened doors or windows.
   (I)   Floors.
      (1)   Floors shall be constructed of smooth, easily cleanable materials
such as ceramic tile, linoleum, or laminated wood.
      (2)   Sawdust, wood shavings, peanut hulls, etc., are prohibited.
      (3)   Mats and duckboards shall be nonabsorbent and cleaned daily.
   (J)   Walls and ceilings.
      (1)   Walls and ceilings shall be light colored, smooth, nonabsorbent and
easily cleanable.
      (2)   Food preparation areas shall be well lit.
      (3)   All lights in food preparation areas must be shielded.
   (K)   Ventilation. The ventilation system shall be installed and operated
according to the Texas Food Establishment Rules and the International
Mechanical Code.
   (L)   Animals. Live animals shall be excluded from the surrounding areas of
all mobile food units.
   (M)   Cleaning and sanitization of equipment; hand lavatory.
      (1)   A two-compartment sink with hot and cold running water under
pressure is required; however, a three-compartment sink is recommended.
      (2)   The hand lavatory must be accessible and convenient.
   (N)   Fresh water and wastewater systems.
      (1)   All mobile food units must have potable (drinking) water and the
storage of potable water must be according to law.
      (2)   All mobile food units must have hot and cold running water under
pressure. Hot water at a temperature of at least 100°F shall be provided to all
fixtures at all times while the unit is in operation.
      (3)   Fresh water must be provided in a self-contained system within the
mobile food unit. Water may not be supplied to the mobile unit by running hoses
from an establishment to the unit.
      (4)   The water inlet shall be capped when not being used to fill a water
tank.
      (5)   Wastewater shall be stored in a permanently installed retention
tank that is sized at least 15% larger in capacity than the water supply tank
and is sloped to drain. The drain pipe must be at least 25 millimeters (one
inch) in inner diameter or greater and equipped with a shutoff valve.
      (6)   Wastewater must be disposed of by a sewage transport vehicle, and
under no circumstances shall wastewater be disposed in the municipal wastewater
system.
   (O)   Vehicle requirements.
      (1)   All mobile food units shall be readily identifiable by business
name, printed in bold letters not less than three inches in height, not less
than one and one-half inches in width, permanently affixed, and prominently
displayed upon at least two sides of the unit.
      (2)   All mobile food units shall maintain a current state motor vehicle
inspection sticker and a current Texas motor vehicle license plate registration
sticker.
      (3)   All mobile food units must be readily movable (capable of moving
immediately upon the request of the code enforcement officer).
      (4)   Mobile food vendors who only sell prepackaged goods on their mobile
food units shall not remain parked in one location for longer than three hours.
No time restriction shall apply for mobile food vendors who prepare food on
their mobile food unit.
   (P)   Applicability to prepackaged sales. For mobile food vendors who only
sell prepackaged goods on their mobile food units, the only divisions of this
section that apply are those relative to:
      (1)   Submitting plans;
      (2)   Required documentation;
      (3)   Initial inspection of the mobile unit;
      (4)   Permits;
      (5)   Inspections;
      (6)   Food source and food protection when applicable, as determined by
the code enforcement officer;
      (7)   Insect and rodent control;
      (8)   Animals;
      (9)   Fresh water and wastewater systems, when applicable, as determined
by the code enforcement officer; and
      (10)   Vehicle requirements.
   (Q)   Trash receptacles. Mobile food vendors who prepare food on their
mobile food unit shall provide one or more trash receptacles for disposal of
waste from customers, and shall provide for the disposal of such waste.
(Ord. 1018-1, passed 11-12-2018)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 1018-1, passed 11-12-2018)
CHAPTER 117: FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
117.01   Adoption of Texas Food Establishment Rules
   
117.02   Permits and exemptions
   
117.03   Application for permit and fees
   
117.04   Review of plans
   
117.05   Suspension of permit
   
117.06   Revocation of permit
   
117.07   Administrative process
   
117.08   Remedies
§ 117.01 ADOPTION OF TEXAS FOOD ESTABLISHMENT RULES.
   (A)   City of Lindsay, Texas adopts by reference the provisions of the
current rules or rules as amended by the Texas Board of Health found in Tex.
Administrative Code, Title 25, Chapter 228, regarding the regulation of food
establishments in this jurisdiction.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED AGENT OR EMPLOYEE. The employees or contractors for the
regulatory authority.
      FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food service establishment, a retail food store, a
temporary food establishment, a mobile food unit, and/or a roadside food
vendor.
      REGULATORY AUTHORITY. The City of Lindsay, Texas.
      STATE RULES. The state rules found at Tex. Administrative Code, Title 25,
Chapter 228. These rules are also known as the Texas Food Establishment Rules.
      TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food establishment that operates for a
period of no more than 14 consecutive days in conjunction with a single event
or celebration.
(Ord. 1118-2, passed 10-12-2018)
§ 117.02 PERMITS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A person may not operate a food establishment without a permit issued
by the regulatory authority. The person in charge of a food establishment shall
be a certified food protection manager who has shown proficiency of required
information through passing an examination approved by the Texas Department of
Health. Permits are not transferable from one person to another or from one
location to another location, except as otherwise permitted by this chapter. A
valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous public place regulated by this
chapter.
   (B)   A food establishment operated solely by a nonprofit organization is
exempt from the permit fees as required of this chapter, but is not exempt from
compliance with state rules. The regulatory authority may require any
information necessary to determine whether an organization is nonprofit for
purposes of this exemption.
   (C)   A temporary food establishment may operate under a temporary permit
issued by the regulatory authority and shall operate in compliance with state
rules.
(Ord. 1118-2, passed 10-12-2018)
§ 117.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT AND FEES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to operate a food establishment must make a
written application for a permit on forms provided by the regulatory authority.
The application must contain the name and address of each applicant, the
location and type of the proposed food establishment and the applicable fee as
established in the City of Lindsay fee schedule. An incomplete application will
not be accepted. Failure to provide all required information, or falsifying
information required may result in denial or revocation of the permit. Renewals
of permits are required on an annual basis and the same information is required
for a renewal permit as for an initial permit.
   (B)   Prior to the approval of an initial permit or the renewal of an
existing permit, the regulatory authority shall inspect the proposed food
establishment to determine compliance with state laws and rules. A food
establishment that does not comply with state laws and rules will be denied a
permit or the renewal of a permit.
   (C)   Permits for temporary food establishments that have been inspected and
permitted by another regulatory authority in the State of Texas (temporary
permits from other regulatory authorities are not allowed) may be provided a
temporary permit without an inspection from the regulatory authority.
   (D)   Fees for any application, permit, or inspection required under this
chapter shall be required as established in the City of Lindsay fee schedule.
(Ord. 1118-2, passed 10-12-2018)
§ 117.04 REVIEW OF PLANS.
   (A)   Whenever a food establishment is constructed or extensively remodeled
and whenever an existing structure is converted to use as a food establishment,
properly prepared plans and specifications for such construction, remodeling or
conversion shall be submitted to the regulatory authority for review before
work is begun. Extensive remodeling means that 20% or greater of the area of
the food establishment is to be remodeled. The plans and specifications shall
indicate the proposed layout, equipment arrangement, mechanical plans and
construction of materials of work areas, and the type and model of proposed
fixed equipment and facilities. The plans and specifications will be approved
by the regulatory authority if they meet the requirements of the rules adopted
by this chapter. The approved plans and specifications must be followed in
construction, remodeling or conversion.
   (B)   Failure to follow the approved plans and specification will result in
a permit denial, suspension, or revocation.
(Ord. 1118-2, passed 10-12-2018)
§ 117.05 SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The regulatory authority may, without warning, notice, or hearing
suspend any permit to operate a food establishment if the operation of the food
establishment constitutes an imminent hazard to public health. Suspension is
effective upon service of the notice required by division (B). When a permit is
suspended, food operations shall immediately cease. Whenever a permit is
suspended, the holder of the permit shall be afforded an opportunity for a
hearing within 20 days of receipt of a request for a hearing.
   (B)   Whenever a permit is suspended, the holder of the permit or the person
in charge shall be notified in writing that the permit is, upon service of the
notice, immediately suspended and that an opportunity for a hearing will be
provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the regulatory
authority by the holder of the permit within ten days. If no written request
for hearing is filed within ten days, the suspension is sustained. The
regulatory authority may end the suspension at any time if reasons for
suspension no longer exist.
(Ord. 1118-2, passed 10-12-2018)
§ 117.06 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   The regulatory authority may, after providing opportunity for a
hearing by the regulatory authority, revoke a permit for serious or repeated
violations of any of the requirements of these rules or for interference with
the regulatory authority in the performance of its duties. Prior to revocation,
the regulatory authority shall notify the holder of the permit or the person in
charge, in writing, of the reason for which the permit is subject to revocation
and that the permit shall be revoked at the end of the ten days following
service of such notice unless a written request for a hearing is filed with the
regulatory authority by the holder of the permit within such ten-day period.
   (B)   If no request for hearing is filed within the ten day period, the
revocation of the permit becomes final.
(Ord. 1118-2, passed 10-12-2018)
§ 117.07 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS.
   (A)   A notice as required in these rules is properly served when it is
delivered to the holder of the permit or the person in charge, or when it is
sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last
known address of the holder of the permit. A copy of the notice shall be filed
in the records of the regulatory authority.
   (B)   The hearings provided for in these rules shall be conducted by the
regulatory authority at a time and place designated by it. Based upon the
recorded evidence of such hearing, the regulatory authority shall make final
findings, and shall sustain, modify or rescind any notice or order considered
in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall be furnished to
the holder of the permit by the regulatory authority.
(Ord. 1118-2, passed 10-12-2018)
§ 117.08 REMEDIES.
   (A)   It shall be an offense for any person to violate a provision of this
chapter, the rules adopted by this chapter, or a permit issued under this
chapter. Each day that a violation occurs or continues shall be a separate
offense.
   (B)   An offense under this section shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than $2,000 per violation.
   (C)   The regulatory authority may seek to enjoin violations of these rules.
(Ord. 1118-2, passed 10-12-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   CHILD SAFETY ZONES AND DISTANCE RESTRICTIONS FOR REGISTERED SEX
OFFENDERS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Dumping at the wastewater treatment plant
   
130.02   Shooting of firearms, air guns or cannon crackers
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DUMPING AT THE WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT.
   No dumping of any kind shall be allowed at the wastewater treatment plant in
the city, with the exception necessitated by directive of the city’s Emergency
Management Director during a city wide disaster.
(Ord. 0805-1, passed 8-8-2005) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 SHOOTING OF FIREARMS, AIR GUNS OR CANNON CRACKERS.
   Except as otherwise provided under state law, including Tex. Local Gov’t
Code, §§ 229.001 and 229.002, any person who discharges any gun, pistol or
firearm of any kind, or who discharges an air rifle or air pistol of any
description, by whatever name known that by means of compressed air, compressed
gas, springs or any other means is capable of discharging shots, pellets or any
solid object at a velocity in excess of 300 feet per second, or discharges any
cannon cracker or torpedo on or across any public square, street or alley in
the city or within 100 feet of any house shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A CANNON CRACKER is any combustible package more than two inches
long and more than one inch through.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-3-1965) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-3-1965; Ord. 0805-1, passed 8-8-2005)
CHAPTER 131: CHILD SAFETY ZONES AND DISTANCE RESTRICTIONS FOR REGISTERED SEX
OFFENDERS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Offense
   
131.03   Measurements; map
   
131.04   Culpable mental state not required
   
131.05   Affirmative defense
   
131.06   Exemptions
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms, words, and the
derivations thereof shall have the meanings given herein.
   CHILD SAFETY ZONE. A premise where children commonly gather. The term
includes a school, day-care facility, playground, public or private youth
center, public swimming pool, video arcade facility, or other facility that
regularly holds events primarily for children. The term does not include a
church, as defined by Tex. Insurance Code, § 544.251.
   PLAYGROUND, PREMISE, SCHOOL, VIDEO ARCADE FACILITY, AND YOUTH CENTER. Have
the meanings assigned by Tex. Health and Safety Code, § 481.134.
   REGISTERED SEX OFFENDER. An individual who is required to register as a sex
offender under Tex. Code of Criminal Procedure, Chapter 62.
(Ord. 1020-1, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 131.02 OFFENSE.
   It is unlawful for a registered sex offender to go in, on, or within 1,000
feet of a child safety zone in the City of Lindsay.
(Ord. 1020-1, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 131.03 MEASUREMENTS; MAP.
   (A)   For the purposes of measuring the distance restriction of this
chapter, the requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from
the outer property line of the child safety zone property.
   (B)   A map depicting the child safety zones in the city shall be created by
the city and maintained by the Lindsay Police Department. The city shall review
the map annually for changes. Said map will be available to the public at the
Lindsay Police Department.
(Ord. 1020-1, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 131.04 CULPABLE MENTAL STATE NOT REQUIRED.
   Neither allegation nor evidence of a culpable mental state is required for
the proof of an offense defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 1020-1, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 131.05 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE.
   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution of an offense under this chapter
that the registered sex offender was in, on, or within 1,000 feet of a child
safety zone for a legitimate purpose, including transportation of a child that
the registered sex offender is legally permitted to be with, transportation to
and from work, and other work related purposes.
(Ord. 1020-1, passed 10-6-2020)
§ 131.06 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A registered sex offender who established residency in a residence
located within 1,000 feet of a child safety zone before October 6, 2020, is
exempt from the application of this chapter; however, the exemption only
applies:
      (1)   To areas necessary for the registered sex offender to have access
to and live in the residence; and
      (2)   To the period the registered sex offender maintains residency in
such residence.
   (B)   A registered sex offender may seek an exemption from the application
of this chapter by submitting a request in writing to the Police Chief
specifying the background, reason, and scope of the requested exemption. The
Police Chief may seek additional information from the requestor, and shall
issue a written determination on the requested exemption within ten business
days from the filing of the request. The requestor may appeal to the City
Council from the determination of the Police Chief by filing such appeal
request in writing to the City Secretary within ten business days of the Police
Chief’s determination.
(Ord. 1020-1, passed 10-6-2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING
      
151.   MANUFACTURED, MOBILE AND MODULAR HOMES
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   AIRPORT ZONING
      
156.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Minimum square footage for residences and residential structures
   
150.002   Certificate of occupancy
   
150.003   Expedited plat approval
   
150.004   Liquid petroleum gas tanks
   
150.005   Fees
Codes Adopted by Reference
   
150.020   Public Works Construction Standard Specifications
   
150.021   International Energy Conservation Code
   
150.022   International Fuel Gas Code
   
150.023   International Mechanical Code
   
150.024   International Residential Code
   
150.025   International Existing Building Code
   
150.026   International Swimming Pool and Spa Code
National Electrical Code
   
150.040   Adopted
   
150.041   Inspector
   
150.042   Duties
   
150.043   Permits
   
150.044   Inspection
   
150.045   Standards
   
150.046   Licensing of electricians
   
150.047   Qualifications
   
150.048   Failure to comply
International Plumbing Code
   
150.060   Adopted
   
150.061   Inspection and supervision
   
150.062   Street openings
Fire Prevention and Fire Limits
   
150.075   Fire limits
   
150.076   Permit required
   
150.077   Incombustible construction required within fire limits
   
150.078   Frame buildings
   
150.079   Gas connections
   
150.080   Fees required
   
150.081   Adoption of International Fire Code
Building Code
   
150.095   International Building Code
   
150.096   Establishment of office of Building Official
   
150.097   Qualifications of Building Official
   
150.098   Duties of Building Official
   
150.099   Liability
   
150.100   Right of entry
   
150.101   Definitions
Minimum Housing Code
   
150.115   Adoption of Minimum Housing Code
   
150.116   Establishment of the office of Housing Enforcing Official
   
150.117   Right of entry
Demolition, Moving, Relocation and Installation of Buildings Not Built On-Site
   
150.130   Permit required
   
150.131   Application for permit
   
150.132   Investigation of application by Building Official
   
150.133   Issuance of permit
   
150.134   Insurance and bonding requirements
   
150.135   Escort required
   
150.136   House mover to make all arrangements
   
150.137   Notice to utility companies
   
150.138   Police escort
   
150.139   Water and sewer connection mandatory
   
150.140   Parking on public property
   
150.141   Issuance of certificate of occupancy
   
150.142   Liability of the municipality under this subchapter
   
150.143   Exceptions
Substandard, Unsafe or Dangerous Buildings
   
150.155   Purpose and scope
   
150.156   Definitions
   
150.157   Enforcement
   
150.158   Substandard buildings declared
   
150.159   Determination by Building Inspector
   
150.160   Public hearing for abatement of substandard buildings
   
150.161   Order of the City Council
   
150.162   Notice of orders of the City Council
   
150.163   Enforcement of orders of the City Council
   
150.164   Performance of work by the city
   
150.165   Recovery of cost of securing, repair, removal or demolition
   
150.166   Additional authority to secure certain substandard buildings prior to
public hearing and to secure, demolish, repair or remove certain dangerous
buildings
   
150.167   Authority not limited
   
150.168   Priority over Standard Housing Code
   
150.169   Summary of substandard building enforcement procedures
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 MINIMUM SQUARE FOOTAGE FOR RESIDENCES AND RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Generally. Any structure to be used as a single-family residence to be
built on-site, constructed off-site and moved onto a location inside the city,
or moved from one location to another within the city that is to be used as a
single-family residence or converted from a alternate use to a single-family
residence, shall have a minimum of 1,000 square feet of living space.
   (B)   Withholding of building permits and/or certificates of occupancy. No
building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the City
Building Officials for any structure, whether built on-site or moved on-site
that does not comply with this section.
(Ord. 1108-2, passed 11-10-2008) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.002 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No business or commercial activity shall be allowed or permitted in
any business, building or structure within the city limits that has been
remodeled, repaired, renovated or reconstructed at a cost that totals $500, or
more, without an inspection and issuance of a certificate of occupancy that
shows compliance with the City Building Code. No utilities shall be delivered
to the building or structure without a certificate of occupancy being issued
that covers that location.
   (B)   Fee for certificate of occupancy. The fee for issuance of a
certificate of occupancy for any business or commercial activity in a building
or structure within the city limits that has been remodeled, repaired,
renovated or reconstructed as required by division (A) above shall be the sum
of $75. That fee shall be paid to the city prior to issuance of the described
certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 0506-1, passed 5-8-2006)
§ 150.003 EXPEDITED PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Expedited plat approval. When the City Engineer certifies that a tract
of land which is proposed for development has access to public roadways and
public utilities and where no public improvement is being dedicated and no
additional significant drainage or water use issues are present, the City
Council authorizes the City Engineer and City Secretary to file the plat of the
described property without submission of the other requirements of the
subdivision ordinance. The City Council will review to ratify such action at
their next regularly scheduled meeting.
   (B)   Application. This section shall apply only to those tracts within the
city limits that shall be approved by the City Engineer.
   (C)   Fees. Fees charged by the city for approval of plats under this
section, including fees charged by the City Engineer, may be waived by the City
Council upon a finding that such a waiver is in the best interests of the city.
(Ord. 1209-2, passed 12-14-2009)
§ 150.004 LIQUID PETROLEUM GAS TANKS.
   (A)   Compliance with state and federal manufacturing standards. All
liquefied petroleum gas equipment and containers used within the city shall be
manufactured, installed and maintained in compliance with then current state
and federal standards and must be installed by properly trained and licensed
personnel.
   (B)   Use of L.P.G. Liquefied petroleum gas as a source of fuel for heating
and cooling residential and commercial buildings and structures within the city
shall be permitted only where natural gas service is not available. For the
purposes of this section, NOT AVAILABLE shall mean that natural gas service is
not available within 200 feet of the property line on which the residence or
commercial building where L.P.G. is sought to be used as a source of heating or
cooling fuel is located.
   (C)   Location of L.P.G. containers. Where permitted, L.P.G. tanks for use
in heating or cooling or for storage shall be installed in strict compliance
with the International Fire Code wherein the owner must be aware of the
distance from building, streets or alleys, churches, schools and lot lines for
the various size tank capacities as provided in the 2003 International Fire
Code, Chapter 38.
   (D)   Building permit required. Prior to the construction of any building
requiring the installation of any L.P.G. tanks or the later installation of
such tanks within the city for use as a source for heating and cooling for any
residential or commercial building as described in division (B) above, the
owners shall by required to obtain a building permit from the city as provided
by the City Building Code.
   (E)   Exceptions. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting
use of L.P.G. for construction purposes or temporary heating or for
recreational use such as in recreational vehicles or portable gas grills so
long as the containers and the gas appliances are manufactured in compliance
with state and federal standards.
(Ord. 0207-1, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.005 FEES.
   (A)   Zoning fees.
      (1)   Zoning application fees - standard zoning. Zoning application or
rezoning fees shall be $600 on a tract of land up to ten acres and $800 on a
tract of land more than ten acres, to be paid at the time such application is
submitted to the City Secretary.
      (2)   Zoning application fees - planned development. Planned development
application fees shall be $500 on a tract of land plus $30 per acre up to a
maximum of $15,000. A planned development amendment shall be $350 on a tract of
land plus $10 per acre up to a maximum of $5,000.
      (3)   Specific use permit fees. Specific use permit application fees
shall be $600 on a tract of land up to ten acres and $800 on a tract of land
more than ten acres, per request, to be paid at the time such application is
submitted to the City Secretary.
      (4)   Variances and appeals to the Board of Adjustments. The fee for an
appeal or variance request shall be $400 per consideration, to be paid at the
time the appeal or variance request is filed with the City Secretary.
      (5)   Site plan review. The fee for review of site plans shall be $350
for site plans covering one acre or less and shall be $450 for site plans for
more than one acre to be paid at the time the site plan is filed with the City
Secretary.
      (6)   Zoning verification letter. The fee for a zoning verification
letter is $100.
      (7)   The fee for a zoning compliance inspection shall be $200.
      (8)   The fee for a landscape inspection shall be $200.
      (9)   The fee for submission of a comprehensive plan amendment shall be
$300 to be paid at the time the amendment is requested and filed with the City
Secretary.
   (B)   Building permits; other permits.
Building Permits Rates                       Effective
Commercial and Multi-Family Plan Review Only
Building Permits                                            Rates      Effective
Commercial and Multi-Family Plan Review Only
$1 to $50,00                                                $500       June 2021
                                                            $500.00
                                                            for the
                                                            first
$50,001 to $100,000                                         $50,000    June 2021
                                                            plus $2.00
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
                                                            $750.00
                                                            for the
                                                            first
$100,001 to $500,000                                        $100,000   June 2021
                                                            plus $1.50
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
                                                            $1,000 for
                                                            the first
                                                            $500,000
$500,001 to $1,000,000                                      plus $1.30 June 2021
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
                                                            $1,650.00
                                                            for the
                                                            first
$1,000,001 and up                                           $1,000,000 June 2021
                                                            plus $1.00
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
Residential Plan Review and Inspection; Commercial and Multi-Family     
Inspection Only
$1 to $50,000                                               $500       June 2021
                                                            $500 for
                                                            the first
                                                            $50,000
$50,001 to $100,000                                         plus $2.80 June 2021
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
                                                            $750 for
                                                            the first
                                                            $100,000
$100,001 to $500,000                                        plus $2.50 June 2021
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
                                                            $1,515 for
                                                            the first
                                                            $500,000
$500,001 to $1,000,000                                      plus $2.10 June 2021
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
                                                            $2,565 for
                                                            the first
                                                            $1,000,000
$1,000,001 and up                                           plus $1.20 June 2021
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
Minimum permit fee                                          $500       June 2021
                                                            $0.85/
0 square feet - 1,999 square feet                           square     June 2021
                                                            foot +
                                                            $500
                                                            $0.85/
2,000 square feet - 2,499 square feet                       square     June 2021
                                                            foot +
                                                            $500
                                                            $0.85/
2,500 square feet - 2,999 square feet                       square     June 2021
                                                            foot +
                                                            $500
                                                            $0.85/
3,000 square feet and up                                    square     June 2021
                                                            foot +
                                                            $500
                                                            $0.50/
Remodel                                                     square     June 2021
                                                            foot
Commercial and Multi-Family Inspections
$1.00 to $50,000                                            $500
                                                            $500 for
                                                            the first
                                                            $50,000
$50,001 to $100,000                                         plus $2.80 June 2021
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
                                                            $750 for
                                                            the first
                                                            $100,000
$100,001 to $500,000                                        plus $2.50 June 2021
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
                                                            $1,515 for
                                                            the first
                                                            $500,000
$500,001 to $1,000,000                                      plus $2.10 July 2019
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
                                                            $2,565 for
                                                            the first
                                                            $1,000,000
$1,000,001 and up                                           plus $1.20 July 2019
                                                            for each
                                                            additional
                                                            $1,000
Other Permit Fees
   Accessory building                                    $200       June 2021
   Fence                                                 $130       July 2019
   Swimming pool                                         $650       July 2023
   Signs                                                 $90/sign   July 2019
   Certificate of occupancy inspection                   $200       July 2023
   Backflow prevention devices/sprinkler systems and the $130       July 2019
like
   Electrical, plumbing, and mechanical                  $90        July 2019
   Septic system                                         $500       July 2023
   Golf cart/off-highway vehicle
   Registration permit/decal                             $50        June 2021
   (Governmental entities are exempt from this fee)
   Golf cart/off-highway vehicle
   Re-inspection                                         $25        June 2021
   (if it fails initial inspection)
   (Governmental entities are exempt from this fee)
   Replacement permit/decal                              $25        June 2021
   (Governmental entities are exempt from this fee)
   After hours shut-off or reconnects                    $100       June 2021
Trade Permits
Electrical (new construction)                               $25        May 2008
Mechanical (new construction)                               $25        May 2008
Minimum fee for plumbing, electrical and mechanical to      $76.52     May 2008
existing homes or businesses
Plumbing (new construction)                                 $25.00     May 2008
 
(Ord. 0905-3, passed 9-12-2005; Ord. 1205-1, passed 9-12-2005; Ord. 0907-2,
passed 9-10-2007; Ord. 0208-1, passed 2-11-2008; Ord. 0508-3, passed 5-19-2008;
Ord. 1118-1, passed 11-12-2018; Ord. 0719-1, passed 7-8-2019; Ord. 0919-
4 passed 9-9-2019; Ord. 1120-1, passed 11-3-2020; Ord. 0621-01, passed 6-1-
2021; Ord. 0721-1, passed 7-6-2021; Ord. 1221-1, passed 11-14-2021; Ord. 0222-
1, passed 2-8-2022; Ord. 0723-1, passed 7-27-2023; Ord. 1023-1, passed 10-10-
2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
§ 150.020 PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION STANDARD SPECIFICATIONS.
   The North Central Texas Council of Governments Public Works Construction
Standards, as revised, and schedule of inspection fees is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 1012-2, passed 10-8-2012) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021 INTERNATIONAL ENERGY CONSERVATION CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2018 edition
of the International Energy Conservation Code, as published by the
International Code Council, except as it may be in conflict with the provisions
of another ordinance of the city with authority to adopt policies thereto as
set forth in this section and as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The city has adopted local amendments to the International Energy
Conservation Code, and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 0406-5, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 1221-2, passed 11-14-2021)
§ 150.022 INTERNATIONAL FUEL GAS CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2018 edition
of the International Fuel Gas Code, as published by the International Code
Council, except as it may be in conflict with the provisions of another
ordinance of the city with authority to adopt policies thereto as set forth in
this section and as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The city has adopted local amendments to the International Fuel Gas
Code, and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 0406-4, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 1221-2, passed 11-14-2021)
§ 150.023 INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2018 edition
of the International Mechanical Code, as published by the International Code
Council, except as it may be in conflict with the provisions of another
ordinance of the city with authority to adopt policies thereto as set forth in
this section and as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The city has adopted local amendments to the International Mechanical
Code, and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 0406-3, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 1221-2, passed 11-14-2021)
§ 150.024 INTERNATIONAL RESIDENTIAL CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2018 edition
of the International Residential Code, as published by the International Code
Council, except as it may be in conflict with the provisions of another
ordinance of the city with authority to adopt policies thereto as set forth in
this section and as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The city has adopted local amendments to the International Residential
Code, and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 0406-1, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 1221-2, passed 11-14-2021)
§ 150.025 INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2018 edition
of the International Existing Building Code, as published by the International
Code Council, except as it may be in conflict with the provisions of another
ordinance of the city with authority to adopt policies thereto as set forth in
this section and as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The city has adopted local amendments to the International Existing
Building Code, and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 1221-2, passed 11-14-2021)
§ 150.026 INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING POOL AND SPA CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2018 edition
of the International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, as published by the
International Code Council, except as it may be in conflict with the provisions
of another ordinance of the city with authority to adopt policies thereto as
set forth in this section and as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The city has adopted local amendments to the International Swimming
Pool and Spa Code, and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 1221-2, passed 11-14-2021)
NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.040 ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2017 edition
of the National Electrical Code, as published by the National Fire Protection
Association, except as it may be in conflict with the provisions of another
ordinance of the city with authority to adopt policies thereto as set forth in
this section and as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The fees for all electrical permits for new construction shall be $25
per unit for a residential permit and $50 per unit for a commercial permit or
as subsequently amended by ordinance.
   (C)   The city has adopted local amendments to the National Electric Code,
and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 05-66, passed 5-16-1966; Ord. 0406-6, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 0617-1,
passed 5-22-2017; Ord. 1221-2, passed 11-14-2021) Penalty, see § 
150.999
§ 150.041 INSPECTOR.
   There is hereby created the office of Electrical Inspector who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the confirmation of the City Council. The
Electrical Inspector shall have had at least two years experience as an
electrician, shall be of good moral character, shall be versed in the approved
method of electrical construction for safety of life and property and the
National Electrical Code. He or she shall receive such compensation as the
Council may decide.
(Ord. 05-66, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.042 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspector, who for the purpose of this subchapter shall
be known as the City Electrician, and hereinafter referred to as such, shall
have the duty and is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to regulate and
determine the placing of electric wires or others, appliances for electric
lights, heat or power in the city, and to cause all such wires, appliances or
apparatus to be placed, constructed and guarded as not to cause fires or
accidents, endangering life or property, and to be constructed as to keep to a
minimum the loss or waste of electric current.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Electrician to enforce all provisions
of this section and he or she is hereby granted the authority to enter all
buildings in the city, in the performance of his or her duties between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. daily, except that in emergency and within the
limits of reason, the City Electrician may enter buildings for such purposes at
other than the designated hours.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Electrician to inspect and/or test
all electrical work and equipment or apparatus for compliance with the Code
whenever electric wiring, appliances or apparatus shall be defective or
hazardous through improper manufacture of improper or insufficient insulation
or for any other reason, he or she shall at once cause the removal of such
defect or defects, at the expense of the owners of such wiring, appliance or
apparatus.
(Ord. 05-66, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.043 PERMITS.
   No installation, alteration or removal shall be made in, or of the wiring of
any building or structure for light, heat or power or to increase the load of
energy carried by such wires or equipment, nor shall any building or structure
be wired for electric lights, appliances, motors, apparatus or heating devices,
nor alterations made thereto without a written permit therefor being first
obtained from the city license issuing clerk by the person, firm or corporation
having direct charge of such installation.
(Ord. 05-66, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.044 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Upon the completion of the wiring, installation or alteration of any
building or structure for light, heat, power, appliance or apparatus, it shall
be the duty of the person, firm or corporation having direct charge of such to
notify the City Electrician who shall, as early as possible, inspect such
wiring, installation, appliance and apparatus and if installed, altered and
constructed in compliance with the permit and in accordance with the
requirements of this subchapter, he or she shall execute a certificate of
satisfactory inspection, which shall contain the date of such inspection and
the result of his or her examination, but no such certificate shall be issued
unless such electric wiring, motors, heating devices, appliances and apparatus
be in strict accord with the rules and requirements and the spirit of this
section, nor shall current be turned on such installment, equipment, appliance,
motors, heating device and apparatus until said certificate be issued.
   (B)   The amount of fee or charge to be made for such inspections and
certificate to be fixed and determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 05-66, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.045 STANDARDS.
   (A)   All electrical construction, all materials, appliances, motors,
heating devices and apparatus used in connection with electrical work and the
operation of all electrical apparatus within the city shall conform to the
rules and requirements of the current National Electrical Code when work is
performed or equipment and apparatus installed; however, the necessity, good
service and said results often require larger sizes of wire, more branch
circuits and better types of equipment than the minimum which is specified in
the National Electrical Code.
   (B)   Therefore, the City Electrician supervising the enforcement of this
Code will have the responsibility and authority for making interpretations of
the rules, for deciding upon the approval of equipment, materials, construction
and for granting the special permission contemplated in a number of the rules
and the City Electrician, where necessary, shall follow the Code procedure for
securing official interpretations of the Code.
(Ord. 05-66, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.046 LICENSING OF ELECTRICIANS.
   Any persons, firm or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
electrical construction or of the installation of wiring and apparatus for
electric lights, appliances, heating or power in the city shall, before doing
so, obtain a license therefor.
(Ord. 05-66, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.047 QUALIFICATIONS.
   No license shall be issued until the party applying for the same has given
satisfactory evidence to the City Electrician of his, her or their ability to
do said electrical work in a safe and satisfactory manner. No permit for
installation or alteration of any wiring, heating devices, motors, appliances
and apparatus shall be issued until the license and bond herein required have
been obtained.
(Ord. 05-66, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.048 FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to correct any defect or
defects in his or her work or to meet the required standards after having been
given notice of the unfit condition by the City Electrician, within a
reasonable time, shall be refused any other permit until such defect or defects
have been corrected and shall be subject to revocation of license for continual
defective work or either upon conviction for violation of the provision of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 05-66, passed 5-16-1966)
INTERNATIONAL PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.060 ADOPTED.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2018 edition
of the International Plumbing Code, as published by the International Code
Council, except as it may be in conflict with the provisions of another
ordinance of the city with authority to adopt policies thereto as set forth in
this section and as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The city has adopted local amendments to the International Plumbing
Code, and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 016, passed 5-16-1966; Ord. 04-72, passed 2-7-1972; Ord. 010401, passed
1-12-2004; Ord. 0406-9, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 1221-2, passed 11-14-2021)
§ 150.061 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Council to enforce all provisions of
this subchapter, and such Council is hereby granted the authority to enter all
buildings within or without the corporate limits of the city when such
buildings are connected, or to be connected to the municipal water and/or
sewage system.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Council to inspect and test all
plumbing work for compliance with this subchapter and its adopted Plumbing
Code, and to enforce changing of such installations that does not meet the
requirements. It further shall be its duty to see that all persons installing
or altering plumbing shall be qualified by state law.
(Ord. 016, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.062 STREET OPENINGS.
   (A)   All openings made in the public streets or alleys to install plumbing
must be made as carefully as possible and all materials excavated from the
trenches shall be removed or placed where the least inconvenience to the public
will be caused.
   (B)   All openings must be replaced in precisely the same condition as
before the excavation started and all rubbish and materials must be removed at
once, leaving the street or sidewalks clean and in perfect repair.
(Ord. 016, passed 5-16-1966)
FIRE PREVENTION AND FIRE LIMITS
§ 150.075 FIRE LIMITS.
   The following shall be and are hereby declared to be the fire limits of the
City of Lindsay, Texas, to-wit:
   The North half of Block No. 18 and the South half of Block No. 11;
   BEGINNING at a point where the south right-of-way line of U.S. Highway 82
intersects the west right-of-way line of farm to Market Road No. 1199 of that
road’s eastern most entrance into the City of Lindsay, Texas;
   THENCE in southerly direction along said west right-of-way line of said farm
to Market Road 150 feet to a point;
   THENCE in a westerly direction parallel with said south right-of-way line of
U.S. Highway 82 to a point on the east right-of-way line of said farm to Market
Road’s western most entrance into the City of Lindsay, Texas;
   THENCE northerly along said right-of-way line of said farm to Market Road’s
western entrance and continuing across U.S. Highway 82 to a point 200 feet
north of the north right-of-way line of said Highway 82 which point shall be
located on a continuing straight line of said right-of-way line of said farm to
Market Road’s western entrance;
   THENCE in an easterly direction parallel with the north right-of-way line of
U.S. Highway 82 to a point 200 feet north of said right-of-way line of U.S.
Highway 82 which point shall be located on a continuing straight line of the
west right-of-way line of farm to Market Road No. 1199 of that road’s eastern
most entrance into the City of Lindsay, Texas; and
   THENCE in a southerly direction along said continuing straight line to the
place of beginning.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-22-1960; Ord. 014, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 06-93, passed 6-1-
1993)
§ 150.076 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No wall, structure, building or part thereof shall be hereafter built,
enlarged or altered, until a plan of the proposed work together with a
statement of the materials to be used shall have been submitted to the City
Secretary, who shall, if in accordance with the provisions herein contained,
issue a permit for the proposed construction. Structures hereafter erected
without permit or not in conformity with this chapter shall be removed.
   (B)   No building shall be moved from one location to another within the
fire limits until a permit has been obtained therefor. A permit shall be issued
only in case the construction is in accordance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-22-1960; Ord. 014, passed 12-1-1964) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.077 INCOMBUSTIBLE CONSTRUCTION REQUIRED WITHIN FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Every building hereafter erected, altered or enlarged within the fire
limits, shall be enclosed on all sides with walls constructed wholly of stone,
well burned brick, or reinforced concrete eight inches, and shall have the
roof, also the roof and sides of all roof structures, covered with
incombustible material. All cornices shall be of incombustible materials.
   (B)   Note: the purpose of this section is to prohibit the erection within
the fire limits of wooden, ironclad, stucco and veneer type buildings.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-22-1960; Ord. 014, passed 12-1-1964)
§ 150.078 FRAME BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No structure whose walls are wholly, or in part, constructed of wood,
hereafter, to be built hereafter be established as follows:
      (1)   Temporary one-story frame buildings for the use of builders; and
      (2)   Small outhouses not exceeding 100 square feet in area and eight
feet in height, not located within 30 feet of any other building nor within
five feet of any lot lines.
   (B)   Any existing frame or iron clad building within the fire limits, which
may hereafter be damaged by fire, decay or otherwise to an amount greater than
one-half its present value exclusively of the foundation shall not be repaired
or rebuilt, but shall be removed.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-22-1960; Ord. 014, passed 12-1-1964) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.079 GAS CONNECTIONS.
   Gas connections to stoves and similar heating devices shall be made of rigid
metal pipes. For small portable heating devices, flexible metal or rubber
tubing may be used when there is no valve or shutoff on the device.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-22-1960; Ord. 014, passed 12-1-1964)
§ 150.080 FEES REQUIRED.
   Building permits will be required on all construction of residential or
commercial buildings built or moved within the limits of the city.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-22-1960; Ord. 014, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. passed - -)
§ 150.081 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2018 edition
of the International Fire Code, as published by the International Code Council,
except as it may be in conflict with the provisions of another ordinance of the
city with authority to adopt policies thereto as set forth in this section and
as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The city has adopted local amendments to the International Fire Code,
and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 05-66-2, passed 5-16-1966; Ord. 0406-2, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 1221-2,
passed 11-14-2021)
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.095 INTERNATIONAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   There is hereby adopted by the city for the purpose of establishing
rules and regulations for the construction, alteration, removal, demolition,
equipment, use and occupancy, location and maintenance of buildings and
structures, within the city, including permits and penalties, the 2018 edition
of the International Building Code, as published by the International Code
Council, except as it may be in conflict with the provisions of another
ordinance of the city with authority to adopt policies thereto as set forth in
this section and as amended in division (B) below.
   (B)   The city has adopted local amendments to the International Building
Code, and the local amendments are on file in City Hall.
(Ord. 120302, passed 12-8-2003; Ord. 0408-1, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 1221-2,
passed 11-14-2021) Penalty, see § 
150.999
§ 150.096 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The office of Building Official is hereby created and the executive
official in charge shall be known as the Building Official.
   (B)   The Building Official shall be appointed by City Council. His or her
appointment shall continue during good behavior and satisfactory service. He or
she shall not be removed from office except for cause after full opportunity
has been given him or her to be heard on specific charges.
   (C)   During temporary absence or disability of the Building Official, the
appointing authority shall designate an acting Building Official.
(Ord. 05-66-1, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.097 QUALIFICATIONS OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   He or she shall be in good health, physically capable of making the
necessary examinations and inspections. He or she shall not have any interest
whatever, directly or indirectly, in the sale or manufacture of any material,
process or device entering into or used in or in connection with building
construction, alterations, removal and demolition.
(Ord. 05-66-1, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.098 DUTIES OF BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   He or she shall receive applications required by this Code, issue
permits and furnish the prescribed certificates. He or she shall examine the
premises for which permits have been issued and shall make necessary
inspections to see that the provisions of law are compiled with and that
construction is prosecuted safely. He or she shall enforce all provisions of
the Building Code. He or she shall, when requested by proper authority, or when
the public interest so requires, make investigations in connection with matters
referred to in the Building Code and render written reports on the same. To
enforce compliance with law, to remove illegal or unsafe conditions, to secure
the necessary safeguards during construction, or to require adequate exit
facilities in buildings and structures, he or she shall issue such notices or
orders as may be necessary.
   (B)   Inspections required under the provisions of the Building Code shall
be made by the Building Official or his or her duty appointed assistant. The
Building Official may accept reports of inspectors of recognized inspection
services, after investigation of their qualifications and reliability. No
certificates called for by any provision of the Building Code shall be issued
on such reports unless the same are in writing and certified to by a
responsible officer of such service.
   (C)   The Building Official shall keep comprehensive records of
applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections made,
of reports rendered and of notices or orders issued.
   (D)   All such records shall be open to public inspection for good and
sufficient reasons at the stated office hours, but shall not be removed from
the office of the Building Official without his or her written consent.
   (E)   The Building Official shall make written reports to his or her
immediate superior once each month, or oftener if requested, including
statements of permits and certificates issued, and orders promulgated.
(Ord. 05-66-1, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.099 LIABILITY.
   Any officer or employee, or member of the Board of Adjustments and Appeals,
charged with the enforcement of this Code, acting for the city in the discharge
of his or her duties, shall not thereby render himself or herself liable
personally, and he or she is hereby relieved from all personal liability for
any damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act
required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties. Any suit brought
against any officer or employee because of such act performed by him or her in
the enforcement of any provision of this Code shall be defended by the
Department of Law until the final termination of the proceedings.
(Ord. 05-66-1, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.100 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Building Official, in the discharge of his or her official duties, and
upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building,
structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
(Ord. 05-66-1, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.101 DEFINITIONS.
   The codes adopted by reference in Title XV: Land Usage, Chapter 150:
Building are hereby amended as follows:
   (A)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in Chapter 150:
Building, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in Chapter 150: Building,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      PERMANENT TOILET FACILITIES. A room in an existing building (including a
construction trailer) or in the building being constructed with a water closet
installed in such room which conforms to the plumbing code and is continuously
available to all workers involved in a construction project.
      TEMPORARY TOILET FACILITIES. A portable, fully enclosed, chemically
sanitized toilet which is serviced and cleaned at least once each week.
   (B)   Every construction project requiring a permit within the city shall
have adequate toilet facilities for workers associated with the project. The
following shall be considered adequate facilities.
      (1)   Residential construction projects. At least one permanent toilet
facility shall be maintained in each subdivision for the employees or
subcontractors of each builder holding a permit for a building in that
subdivision. A toilet facility must be provided by each builder as long as the
builder holds an active permit in the subdivision.
(Ord. 05-66-1, passed 5-16-1966; Ord. 1221-2, passed 11-14-2021)
MINIMUM HOUSING CODE
§ 150.115 ADOPTION OF MINIMUM HOUSING CODE.
   There is hereby adopted by the City Council, that certain health and housing
standards known as the National Building Code, of which not less than one copy
has been and is now filed in the office of the Secretary of the city, and the
same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein, and from the date on which this subchapter shall take effect, the
provisions thereof shall be controlling on all dwellings and premises within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 05-66-3, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.116 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE OF HOUSING ENFORCING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   The office of Housing Enforcing Official is hereby created.
   (B)   The Building Official shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to
confirmation of the City Council. His or her appointment shall continue during
good behavior and satisfactory service. He or she shall not be removed from
office except for cause after full opportunity has been given him or her to be
heard on specific charges.
(Ord. 05-66-3, passed 5-16-1966)
§ 150.117 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Housing Enforcing Official, in the discharge of his or her official
duties, and upon proper identification, shall have authority to enter any
building, structure or premises at any reasonable hour.
(Ord. 05-66-3, passed 5-16-1966)
DEMOLITION, MOVING, RELOCATION AND INSTALLATION
OF BUILDINGS NOT BUILT ON-SITE
§ 150.130 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport, demolish, move or relocate
a building, structure or portion thereof, except portable storage buildings not
greater than 12 feet in width, 24 feet in length and 12 feet in height, on any
city street other than U.S. Highway 82 within the corporate limits of the
municipality without first obtaining a building transportation/relocation/
installation/demolition permit from the city.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 0510-1, passed 4-19-2010) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.131 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person desiring to demolish, move or relocate any house, building
or structure within the corporate limits shall file any application with the
City Secretary requesting that he or she be permitted to do so. Written
application for such permit shall be filed at least seven days prior to the
actual moving of the structure. Upon filing an application for the permit, the
applicant shall pay such fees as provided for in the building permit of fee
schedule.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant:
      (2)   Description and size of the house, building or structure to be
moved along with its present location, together with a picture thereof;
      (3)   Legal description of the lot and the local address upon which the
house, building or structure is to be moved or relocated if a permit is
granted;
      (4)   A drawing or plat plan showing the dimensions of the lot or tract
of land upon which the house, building or structure is to be moved or
relocated, the location of existing buildings or structures upon the lot, if
any, and the location of existing buildings or structures upon adjoining lots;
      (5)   The proposed route, including the time and date when the applicant
proposes to move or relocate the house, building or structure; and
      (6)   Intended use of the house, building or structure.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 150.132 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Upon filing of the application, the Building Official shall
investigate the application by inspecting the house, building or structure to
be moved or relocated upon the lot or tract of land, and the lot or tract of
land upon which the house, building or structure, if allowed to be moved onto
the designated lot or tract of land, would meet all of the requirements of the
Building Code and other applicable regulations of the municipality.
   (B)   A deposit as provided for in the building permit of the fee schedule
is required for each building or structure to be moved from a lot or tract
within the corporate limits of the municipality. This deposit is to be refunded
when the following requirements have been met:
      (1)   Water lines capped and meters removed;
      (2)   Sewer lines capped; and
      (3)   All debris shall be removed from the lot and it shall be left in a
sanitary state.
   (C)   If the Building Official shall determine that the house, building or
other structure, or part thereof, is to be transported through the city on any
city street other than U.S. Highway 82, but not installed or placed in the
city, the Building Official shall determine that the route, time and date of
the transport is made clear on the permit application so that a police escort
is provided if required by Police Department policy.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 0510-1, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 150.133 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   A permit shall not be issued if:
   (A)   The house, building or structure to be moved does not or cannot meet
all the requirements of all applicable ordinances of the municipality;
   (B)   The lot or tract of land with the house, building or structure thereon
would not meet all of the requirements of the applicable ordinances of the
municipality;
   (C)   The moving of such house, buildings or structure upon or from the lot
or tract of land would cause injury to persons or property or damage to the
streets or other public improvements;
   (D)   The applicant cannot ensure that he or she has the financial resources
to bring the building and grounds up to municipal standards within 90 days
after completion of the move; and
   (E)   The applicant cannot ensure that the grounds from which a building is
demolished or removed will be completely cleared, leveled and cleaned within 90
days after the permit is issued.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 150.134 INSURANCE AND BONDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued unless the applicant shall file with the
City Secretary a surety bond by a surety acceptable to the municipality in the
sum of not less than $5,000. In the event the conditions of §
150.133 are not completed within the 90 days, the city may file on the
applicant’s bond in order to complete the conditions thereof.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall procure and keep in full force and affect a
policy of public liability and property damage insurance issued by a causality
insurance company authorized to do business in this state and in the standard
form approved by the State Board of Insurance Commissioners. Such policy shall
contain a provision that the municipality shall be fully indemnified.
      (2)   Such insurance policy shall insure the public from any loss or
damage that may arise to any person or property by the reason of the moving of
a building or structure by the applicant and providing that the following
recovery limits be not less that the following:
         (a)   For damages arising from bodily injury to or death of one person
in any one accident $100,000;
         (b)   For damages arising from bodily injury to or death of two or
more persons in any one accident, $300,000; and
         (c)   For injury to or destruction of property in any one accident,
$50,000.
   (C)   The Council may waive any insurance or bonding requirements provided
for herein or may require a lesser amount of coverage if in its opinion the
public will be adequately protected.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 150.135 ESCORT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move any building or structure across or along any public
way within the municipal limits without an escort. All escort vehicles shall be
adequately marked and lighted as the Police Chief may require. If the mover
does not have an approved escort, he or she may request that a police escort be
made available. The fee for such escort by the Police Department shall be as
provided for by the City Council and is payable at the time when the permit is
issued.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.136 HOUSE MOVER TO MAKE ALL ARRANGEMENTS.
   Upon the issuance of a permit, the house mover shall make all arrangements
with the public utilities, railroads and other persons, firms or corporations
whose facilities as involved in such movement, for the removal, relocation and
replacement of wires, poles, or other improvements, to enable the building or
structure to be moved without causing damage.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 150.137 NOTICE TO UTILITY COMPANIES.
   (A)   Before the moving of a building is commenced, it shall be the duty of
the permit holder to give notice of the move to all companies maintaining
overhead wires across or along any street or alley included in the designated
route and to secure written clearance from such companies.
   (B)   If it is necessary to temporarily move any such wires to accommodate
the moving of the building, the same shall be at the expense of the building
mover, if the wires are 18 feet above the right-of-way. If the wires are less
than 18 feet above the right-of-way, they shall be moved at the expense of the
utility company. The shortest measurement between the overhead wire and the
center point of the right-of-way shall be used for the purposes of this
section.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 150.138 POLICE ESCORT.
   No person shall move a building or structure as described herein across or
along any street, public way or public place within the municipality unless
accompanied by police escort, if required by the Police Department policies.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007; Ord. 0510-1, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 150.139 WATER AND SEWER CONNECTION MANDATORY.
   Any building or structure moved into the municipality shall be connected to
the water and sewer system of the municipality or to a septic tank approved by
the municipality before a certificate of occupancy can be issued for the
building or structure if the building or structure is to be used for any
purpose other than storage.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.140 PARKING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No building or structure for which a permit has been granted shall be
allowed to remain, park or stand upon the public streets or other public
property within the municipality for more than 24 hours, except in cases of
emergency in which event the building or structure must be removed from the
public streets or public property within 48 hours after the emergency has
arisen.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.141 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No person shall occupy such house, building, or structure permitted to
be moved until the Building Official issues the permittee a certificate of the
occupancy.
   (B)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the house, building
or structure complies with all conditions of the permit and all requirements of
all applicable ordinances of the municipality.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 150.142 LIABILITY OF THE MUNICIPALITY UNDER THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Neither the municipality nor any authorized agent acting under the terms of
this subchapter shall be liable or have any liability by reason of orders
issued or work done in compliance with the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 150.143 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to the movements of oversized
equipment or buildings or structures of a temporary nature, when such
equipment, building or structures are within the legal road limit as required
by state law.
   (B)   Portions of this subchapter will not apply to buildings or structures
being moved out of the city.
(Ord. 0307-2, passed 3-12-2007)
SUBSTANDARD, UNSAFE OR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.155 PURPOSE AND SCOPE.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide a just,
equitable and practical method, to be cumulative with and in addition to any
other remedy provided by the Building Code, Tex. Loc. Gov’t Code, Chapter 214
or otherwise available at law, whereby buildings, as defined herein, which from
any cause endanger the life, limb, health, morals, property, safety or welfare
of the general public or their occupants may be required to be repaired,
vacated, demolished, removed or secured. The purpose of this subchapter is also
to provide minimum standards for the continued use and occupancy of all
structures to safeguard life, limb, health, property and public welfare.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all buildings
which are hereinafter defined as dangerous or substandard buildings whether now
in existence or whether they may hereafter become dangerous.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.156 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any building, fence, awning, canopy, sign, shed, garage, house,
tent or other structure whatsoever and the enumeration of specific types of
structures shall not be deemed to exclude other types of structures to which
the sense and meaning of the provisions hereof in context reasonably have
application.
   BUILDING CODE. The Standard Building Code promulgated by the International
Building Code Council, Inc., as adopted and amended by the city.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. The Building Inspector of the city or his or her
authorized agents assistants, deputies or representatives.
   ELECTRIC CODE. The National Electrical Code of the National Fire Protection
Association, as adopted and amended by the city.
   FIRE CODE. The Standard Fire Code promulgated by the international Building
Code Council, Inc, as adopted and amended by the city.
   FIRE MARSHAL. The Fire Marshal of the City Fire Department or his or her
authorized agents, assistants, deputies or representatives.
   MECHANICAL CODE. The Standard Mechanical Code as published by the
International Building Code Council, Inc., as adopted and amended by the city.
   PLUMBING CODE. The Standard Plumbing Code as published by the International
Building Code Council, Inc., as adopted and amended by the city.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.157 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   General.
      (1)    Administration. The Building Inspector is hereby authorized to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter. The Building Inspector shall have
the power to render interpretations of this subchapter and to adopt and enforce
rules and supplemental regulations in order to clarify the application of its
provisions. Such interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformity
with the intent and purpose of this subchapter.
      (2)   Inspections. The Building Inspector and the Fire Marshal or their
designees are hereby authorized to make such inspections and take such actions
as may be required to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   Right of entry. When it is necessary to make an inspection to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter, or when the Building Inspector or
his or her designee has a reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a
building or upon a premises a condition which is contrary to or in violation of
this subchapter which makes the building or premises unsafe, dangerous or
hazardous, the Building Inspector or his or her designee may enter the building
or premises at reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties imposed by
this subchapter, provided that, if such building or premises be occupied,
credentials be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If such building
or premises be unoccupied, the Building Inspector or the Building Inspector’s
designee shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or other
person having charge or control of the building or premises and request entry.
If entry is refused, the Building Inspector shall have recourse to the remedies
provided by law to secure entry.
   (B)   Abatement of dangerous or substandard buildings. All buildings or
portions thereof which are determined after inspection by the Building
Inspector to be dangerous or substandard as defined by this subchapter are
hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair, vacation,
demolition, removal or securing in accordance with the procedures specified in
this subchapter.
   (C)   Unlawful to violate subchapter. It shall be unlawful for any person,
firm or corporation to erect, construct, or use, occupy or maintain any
building or cause or permit the same to be done in violation of this
subchapter.
   (D)   Inspection authorized. All buildings within the scope of this
subchapter and all construction or work for which a permit is required shall be
subject to inspection by the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.158 SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS DECLARED.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, any building, regardless of the date of
its construction, which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter
described to the extent that the life, limb, health, property, safety or
welfare of the public or occupants thereof are endangered shall be deemed to be
a substandard building:
   (A)   Any building that is dilapidated, substandard or unfit for human
habitation and a hazard to the public health, safety and welfare;
   (B)   Any building that, regardless of its structural condition, is
unoccupied by its owners, lessees or other invitees and is unsecured from
unauthorized entry to the extent that it could be entered or used by vagrants
or other uninvited persons as a place of harborage or could be entered or used
by children;
   (C)   Any building that is boarded up, fenced or otherwise secured in any
manner if either of the following apply:
      (1)    The building constitutes a danger to the public even though
secured from entry; or
      (2)   The means used to secure the building are inadequate to prevent
unauthorized entry or use of the building in the manner described by division
(B) above.
   (D)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
is not of sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and
adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (E)   Whenever the walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway or
other means of exit is so warped, worn, loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as not
to provide safe and adequate means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (F)   Whenever the stress in any materials, or members or portion thereof,
due to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed in the Building Code for new buildings of similar
structure, purpose or location;
   (G)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements of the Building Code for
new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location;
   (H)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, or to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure
persons or damage property;
   (I)   Whenever any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified in the
Building Code for new buildings of similar structure, purpose or location
without exceeding the working stresses permitted in the Building Code for such
buildings;
   (J)   Whenever any portion thereof has wracked, warped, buckled or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
   (K)   Whenever the building, or any portion thereof, is likely to collapse
partially or completely because of any of the following:
      (1)    Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
      (2)   Faulty construction;
      (3)   The removal, movement or instability of any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      (4)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      (5)   Any other cause.
   (L)    Whenever, for any reason, the building, or any portion thereof, is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
   (M)   Whenever, the exterior walls or other vertical structural members
list, lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the
center of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
   (N)   Whenever the building, exclusive of the foundation, shows 33% or more
damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50% or more
damage or deterioration of its non-supporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
   (O)   Whenever the building has been so damaged by fire, wind, earthquake,
flood or other causes, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to
become either;
      (1)    An attractive nuisance to children; or
      (2)   A harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons.
   (P)   Whenever any building has been constructed, exists or is maintained in
violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable to such
building provided by the building regulations of this city, as specified in the
Building Code, or of any law or ordinance of this state or city relating to the
condition, location or structure of buildings;
   (Q)   Whenever any building which, whether or not erected in accordance with
all applicable laws and ordinances, has in any non-supporting part, member or
portion less than 50%, or in any supporting part, member or portion less than
60% of the:
      (1)   Strength;
      (2)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
      (3)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law in
the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy in
the same location.
   (R)   Whenever a building, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay, damage,
faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, air or sanitation
facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the Building Inspector to be
unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely to
cause sickness or disease for reasons including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)    Lack of, or improper water closet, lavatory, bathtub or shower in
a dwelling unit or lodging house;
      (2)   Lack of, or improper water closets, lavatories and bathtubs or
showers per number of guests in a hotel;
      (3)   Lack of, or improper kitchen sink in a dwelling unit;
      (4)   Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a hotel;
      (5)   Lack of hot and cold running water to plumbing fixtures in a
dwelling unit or lodging house;
      (6)   Lack of adequate heating facilities;
      (7)   Lack of, or improper operation of, required ventilating equipment;
      (8)   Lack of minimum amounts of natural light and ventilation required
by this code;
      (9)   Room and space dimensions less than required by this code and the
Building Code;
      (10)   Lack of required electrical lighting;
      (11)   Dampness of habitable rooms;
      (12)   Infestation of insects, vermin or rodents;
      (13)   General dilapidation or improper maintenance;
      (14)   Lack of connection to required sewage disposal system; and
      (15)   Lack of adequate garbage and rubbish storage and removal
facilities.
   (S)   Whenever any building, because of obsolescence, dilapidated condition,
deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of sufficient fire-resistive
construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections or heating apparatus, or
other cause, is determined by the Fire Marshal to be a fire hazard;
   (T)   Whenever any building is in such a condition as to make a public
nuisance known to the common law or in equity jurisprudence;
   (U)   Whenever any portion of a building remains on a site after the
demolition or destruction of the building;
   (V)   Whenever any building is abandoned so as to constitute such building
or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public; and
   (W)   Any building constructed and still existing in violation of any
provision of the Building Code, Fire Code, Plumbing Code, Mechanical Code or
Electrical Code to the extent that the life, health or safety of the public or
any occupant is endangered.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.159 DETERMINATION BY BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   When the Building Inspector has inspected or caused to be inspected any
building and has found and determined that the building is substandard, the
Building Inspector may take any or all of the following actions, as the
Building Inspector deems appropriate:
   (A)   Issue notice to the record owner that the building is substandard and
must be repaired or demolished;
   (B)   Issue citation(s) for violations(s) of this subchapter;
   (C)   Secure the building if permitted; and
   (D)   Recommend to the City Council that abatement proceedings be commenced
pursuant to §
150.160.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.160 PUBLIC HEARING FOR ABATEMENT OF SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Commencement of proceedings. When the Building Inspector has found and
determined that a building is a substandard building, the Building Inspector
shall commence proceedings to cause the repair, vacation, relocation of
occupants, removal, demolition or securing of the building.
   (B)   Public hearing to be held. Except when the City Council finds that a
building is likely to immediately endanger persons or property, a public
hearing before the City Council shall be held to determine whether a building
complies with the standards set out in §
150.158. If the City Council determines that the building constitutes an
immediate danger, the procedures set forth in §
150.161 shall be followed.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   Not less than ten days prior to the date for which the hearing is
set, the Building Inspector shall issue a notice of the public hearing directed
to the record owner of the building, and to all mortgagees and lienholders. The
city shall use best efforts to determine the identity and address of any owner,
lienholder or mortgagee of the building through the records of the County Clerk
in the county in which the building is located and through any other source
available to the city.
      (2)   The notice shall contain all of the following:
         (a)    The name and address of the record owner;
         (b)   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located;
         (c)   A statement that the Building Inspector has found the building
to be substandard or dangerous, with a brief and concise description of the
conditions found to render the building dangerous or substandard under the
provisions of §
150.158;
         (d)   A statement that the owner, lienholder or mortgagee will be
required to submit at the hearing proof of the scope of any work that may be
required to comply with the subchapter, and the reasonable time it will take to
perform the work;
         (e)   Notice of the time and place of the public hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the building is found to be in violation of
this subchapter, the City Council may order that the building be vacated,
secured, repaired, removed or demolished within a reasonable time.
   (D)   Additional notice of public hearing. Prior to the public hearing, the
city may file a copy of the notice mailed pursuant to division (C) above in the
public records of real property in which the property is located. If such
notice is not filed of record, each identified mortgagee and lienholder must be
notified of any abatement order issued by the city at the public hearing, prior
to any remedial action by the city.
   (E)   Burden of proof. At the public hearing, the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee has the burden of proof to demonstrate the scope of any work that may
be required to comply with this subchapter, and the time it will take
reasonably to perform the work.
   (F)   Conduct of public hearing. At the public hearing, the owner of the
building and all other interested persons may make their appearance and be
heard. Any evidence shall be received and considered by the City Council. The
Mayor, or in his or her absence, any officer designated by rules adopted by the
City Council to preside at meetings, shall preside and shall determine all
questions of order. The hearing may be adjourned from day to day or continued
upon a majority vote of the City Council.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.161 ORDER OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Findings of the City Council. If the City Council, by a majority vote,
finds upon evidence presented at the public hearing that the building is in
violation of standards set out in §
150.158, the City Council may order that the building be repaired, vacated,
removed, demolished, secured or that the occupants be relocated by the owner,
mortgagee or lienholder within a reasonable time as provided herein.
   (B)   Time allowed to complete work.
      (1)    The order must require the owner, lienholder or mortgagee of the
building to do either or both of the following within 30 days:
         (a)   Secure the building for unauthorized entry; and/or
         (b)   Repair, remove or demolish the building unless the owner or
lienholder establishes at the hearing that the work cannot reasonably be
performed within 30 days.
      (2)   If the City Council allows the owner, lienholder or mortgagee more
than 30 days to repair, remove or demolish the building, the City Council shall
establish specific time schedules for the commencement and performance of the
work and shall require the owner, lienholder or mortgagee to secure the
property in a reasonable manner from unauthorized entry while the work is being
performed, as determined by the City Council.
      (3)   The City Council may not allow the owner, lienholder or mortgagee
more than 90 days to repair, remove or demolish the building or fully perform
all work required to comply with the order unless the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee does both of the following:
         (a)   Submits, at the hearing, a detailed plan and time schedule for
the work; and
         (b)   Establishes, at the hearing, that the work cannot reasonably be
completed within 90 days because of the scope and complexity of the work.
      (4)   If the City Council allows the owner, lienholder or mortgagee more
than 90 days to complete any part of the work required to repair, remove or
demolish the building, the City Council shall require the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee regularly to submit progress reports to the Building Inspector to
demonstrate that the owner, lienholder or mortgagee has complied with the time
schedules established for commencement and performance of the work. The order
may require that the owner, lienholder or mortgagee appear before the City
Council or the Building Inspector to demonstrate compliance with the time
schedules.
   (C)   Contents of order. The order of the City Council must contain, at
minimum, all of the following:
      (1)    An identification, which is not required to be a legal
description, of the building and the property on which it is located;
      (2)   A description of the violation of minimum standards present in the
building;
      (3)   A description of the ordered actions, including a statement that
the owner may repair, if feasible, or demolish or remove at his or her option;
      (4)   A statement that the city will vacate, secure, remove or demolish
the building or relocate the occupants of the building if the ordered action is
not taken within the time allowed, and charge the cost to the property; and
      (5)   If the City Council has determined that the building will endanger
persons or property, or if the building is a dwelling with ten or fewer
dwelling units, a statement that the city may repair the building and charge
the costs to the property if the ordered action is not taken within the time
allowed.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.162 NOTICE OF ORDERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Order shall be mailed. After the public hearing, the Building
Inspector shall promptly mail, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a
copy of the order to the record owner of the building, and each identified
lienholder and mortgagee of the building.
   (B)   Order shall be filed with City Secretary. Within ten days after the
date that the order is issued by the City Council, the Building Inspector shall
file a copy of the order in the office of the City Secretary.
   (C)   Order shall be published. Within ten days after the date the order is
issued by the City Council, the Building Inspector shall publish in a newspaper
of general circulation within the city a notice stating all of the following:
      (1)   The street address or legal description of the property;
      (2)   The date the hearing was held;
      (3)   A brief statement indicating the results of the order; and
      (4)   Instructions stating where a complete copy of the order may be
obtained.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.163 ENFORCEMENT OF ORDERS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   If order not complied with, city may take action. If the building is
not vacated, secured, repaired, removed or demolished within the time specified
by the order, the city may vacate, secure, repair, remove or demolish the
building or relocate the occupants at its own expense, provided however:
      (1)    The city may not act to remove or demolish a building until after
the City Council has found either of the following:
         (a)   Such defects or conditions exist to the extent that the life,
health, property or safety of the public or the occupants of the building are
endangered and the building is infeasible to repair; or
         (b)   There is no reasonable probability that the building will be
repaired within a reasonable period of time if additional time is given.
      (2)   The city may only repair a building as provided herein to the
extent necessary to correct the conditions which render the building dangerous,
and may not act to repair a building unless both of the following apply:
         (a)   The City Council has made a determination that the building is
likely to endanger person or property; and
         (b)   The building is a residential dwelling with ten or fewer
dwelling units.
   (B)   Posting of notice to vacate building. If the order requires vacation
or if compliance is not had with the order within the time specified therein,
the Building Inspector is authorized to require that the building be vacated.
Notice to vacate shall be mailed by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the occupant of the building and it shall be posted at or upon each entrance
to the building and shall be in substantially the following form:
 
SUBSTANDARD BUILDING
DO NOT ENTER
UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
It is a misdemeanor to occupy this building or to remove or deface this notice.
Building Inspector City of Lindsay
 
   (C)   Remedial action by city. Any repair or demolition work, or securing of
the building, shall be accomplished and the cost thereof paid and recovered in
the manner hereinafter provided. Any surplus realized from the sale of such
building, or from the demolition thereof, over and above the cost of demolition
and cleaning of the lot, shall be paid over to the person or persons lawfully
entitled thereto.
   (D)   Failure to obey order. Any person to whom an order pursuant to §
150.161 is directed who fails, neglects or refuses to comply with such order
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be prosecuted in Municipal Court in
addition to any other remedies available to the city provided herein.
   (E)   Interference prohibited. No person shall obstruct, impede or interfere
with any officer, employee, contractor or authorized representative of the city
or with any person who owns or holds any estate or interest in the building
which has been ordered repaired, vacated, demolished, removed or secured under
the provisions of this subchapter; or with any person to whom such building has
been lawfully sold pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter, whenever such
officer, employee, contractor or authorized representative of the city, person
having an interest or estate in such building, or purchaser is engaged in the
work of repairing, vacating and repairing, or demolishing, removing or securing
any such building pursuant to the provision of this subchapter, or in
performing any necessary act preliminary to or incidental to such work or
authorized or directed pursuant to this subchapter.
   (F)   Permit required. Any work of closure, repair, removal or demolition by
the property owner or any lienholder or mortgagee or their agents must be
performed pursuant to valid unexpired permits issued by the city. All permits
issued pursuant to an order of the City Council shall expire upon expiration of
the time for compliance set forth in the order.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.164 PERFORMANCE OF WORK BY THE CITY.
   (A)   Procedure. When any work of repair, removal, demolition or securing is
to be performed by the city pursuant to the provisions of any order of the City
Council, the work may be accomplished by city personnel or by private contract
as may be deemed necessary. Rubble and debris shall be removed from any
premises and the lot cleaned if removal or demolition is ordered. The building
or building materials may be sold if removal or demolition is ordered, and the
proceeds shall be used to offset other costs of the work.
   (B)   Costs. The cost of such work shall be paid from city funds and shall
constitute a special assessment and a lien against such property to secure
payment thereof, together with 10% interest on such amount from the date on
which the work is performed.
   (C)   Repair to minimum standards only. The city may repair the building at
its own expense and assess the expenses on the land on which the building
stands or is attached to only to the extent necessary to bring the building
into compliance with minimum standards.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.165 RECOVERY OF COST OF SECURING, REPAIR, REMOVAL OR DEMOLITION.
   (A)   Itemized account and notice of lien.
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall keep an itemized account of the
expenses incurred by the city in the securing, repair, removal or demolition of
any building pursuant to this subchapter.
      (2)   Upon completion of the work, the Building Inspector shall prepare
and file with the City Secretary a sworn account and notice of lien containing
all of the following information:
         (a)    The name and address of the owner if that information can be
determined with a reasonable effort;
         (b)   A legal description of the real property on which the building
is or was located;
         (c)   The type of work performed; and
         (d)   The amount of expenses incurred by the city in performing the
work and the balance due.
   (B)   Notice filed in county records. The City Secretary shall file the
notice of lien along with a copy of the order of abatement issued by the City
Council in the deed records of the county in which the premises are located.
   (C)   Personal obligation of property owner. The expenses incurred by the
city as set forth in the sworn account of the Building Inspector shall be a
personal obligation of the property owner in addition to a priority lien upon
the property. The City Attorney may bring an action in any court of proper
jurisdiction against the owner or property to recover the costs incurred by the
city.
   (D)   Lien shall be valid and privileged. Upon filing of the notice of lien
in the Deed Records of the county, the lien shall be valid against the property
so assessed. The lien shall be privileged and subordinate only to tax liens,
existing special assessment liens, and shall be paramount to all other liens.
The lien shall continue until the assessment and all interest due and payable
thereon has been paid.
   (E)   Assessment must be paid. No utility service, building permit or
certificate of occupancy shall be allowed on any such property until the
assessment is paid and such lien is released by the city.
   (F)   Release of lien. After the expenses incurred by the city, as set forth
in the sworn account of the Building Inspector, have been fully paid with
interest of 10% per annum from the date the work was performed, the Building
Inspector shall execute a release of lien which shall be filed in the Deed
Records of the county.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.166 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO SECURE CERTAIN SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS PRIOR TO
PUBLIC HEARING AND TO SECURE, DEMOLISH, REPAIR OR REMOVE CERTAIN DANGEROUS
BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Securing of unoccupied substandard buildings. Notwithstanding any
other provisions of this subchapter, the city may secure a building if the
Building Inspector determines that both of the following apply:
      (1)    The building violates the minimum standards set forth in §
150.158; and
      (2)   The building is unoccupied or is occupied only by persons who do
not have the right of possession to the building.
   (B)   If building creates immediate danger. Notwithstanding any other
provisions of this subchapter, if the City Council finds that a building is
likely to immediately endanger persons or property the City Council may do
either of the following:
      (1)   Order the owner of the building, the owner’s agent, or the owner or
occupant of the property on which the structure is located to repair, remove or
demolish the structure, or the dangerous part of the structure, within a
specified time; or
      (2)   Repair, remove or demolish the structure, or the dangerous part of
the structure, at the expense of the city, on behalf of the owner of the
structure or the owner of the property on which the structure is located, and
assess the repair, removal or demolition expenses on the property on which the
structure was located.
   (C)   Before the eleventh day after the date the building is secured
pursuant to division (A) above, or action is ordered pursuant to division (B)
(1) above, or the building is repaired, removed or demolished pursuant to
division (B)(2) above, the Building Inspector shall do both of the following:
      (1)    Give notice to the owner by one or more of the following methods:
         (a)   Personally serving the owner with written notice;
         (b)   Depositing the notice in the Unites States mail addressed to the
owner at the owner’s post office address;
         (c)   Publishing the notice at least twice within a ten-day period in
a newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the building is
located, if personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office
address is unknown; and
         (d)   Posting the notice on or near the front door of the building if
personal service cannot be obtained and the owner’s post office address is
unknown.
      (2)   Give notice to all lienholders and mortgagees by depositing such
notice in the United States mail to all lienholders and mortgagees who can be
determined from a reasonable search of instruments on file in the office of the
County Clerk.
   (D)   The notice required by division (C) above must contain all of the
following:
      (1)    An identification, which is not required to be a legal
description, of the building and the property on which it is located;
      (2)   A description of the violation of the minimum standards present in
the building;
      (3)   A statement that the city will secure or has secured, as the case
may be, the building, or that the city has taken or will take the action
ordered pursuant to division (B) above; and
      (4)   An explanation of the owner’s entitlement to request a hearing
about any matter relating to the city’s securing, removing, demolishing or
repairing of the building.
   (E)   The City Council shall conduct a hearing at which the owner may
testify or present witnesses or written information about any matter relating
to the city’s securing, repairing, removing or demolishing of the building, if,
within 30 days after the date the city has taken action pursuant to divisions
(A) or (B) above, the owner files with the city a written request for a
hearing. The hearing shall be conducted within 20 days after the date the
request is filed.
   (F)   If the city incurs expenses under this section, such expenses incurred
shall be a personal obligation of the property owner in addition to a priority
lien upon the property, and costs shall be recovered as provided by §
150.164.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful to fail to comply with an order issued pursuant
to this section.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.167 AUTHORITY NOT LIMITED.
   Notwithstanding all other provisions of this subchapter, nothing herein
shall be deemed a limitation on the duty of the city to summarily order the
demolition of any building or structure where it is apparent that the immediate
demolition of such building or structure is necessary to the protection of
life, property or general welfare of the people in the city.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.168 PRIORITY OVER STANDARD HOUSING CODE.
   The procedures established by this subchapter for use, occupancy and
abatement of substandard structures shall prevail over those set forth in the
International Building Code, adopted in this chapter.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.169 SUMMARY OF SUBSTANDARD BUILDING ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Building Inspector and/or Fire Marshal identifies building
that is substandard or dilapidated or unsafe according to the specific
standards outlined in §
150.158.
   (B)   The City Building Inspector and/or Fire Marshal should attempt to
correct the problem by asking the record owner to repair, replace, demolish and
the like, in a verbal, followed by written, request for repairs and the like
that is documented as to date and the like.
   (C)   If the owner either fails to make repairs or refuses to make repairs,
the Building Inspector should request a public hearing by the City Council to
determine that the building is substandard, dilapidated or dangerous according
to the standards in §
150.158. Notice of the hearing must be sent to the owner, lienholder or
mortgagee of the property, giving them at least ten days’ notice of the
hearing, containing the information set out in §
150.160(C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(f).
   (D)   At the hearing, the Building inspector should explain, show and
demonstrate in a brief and concise description the conditions found to render
the building dangerous or substandard under §
150.158.
   (E)   The property owner or lienholder and all other interested persons can
be heard at the Council meeting to explain, contest or otherwise be informed
about the building and what is required by the city.
   (F)   Following the hearing, the City Council must determine if the building
is in violation of the standards established by this subchapter. If the Council
finds the building to be substandard, it (the Council) may allow the owner time
to make the repairs, set a schedule for repairs (if appropriate) or, under
certain conditions, order the building to be secured, repaired or demolished.
   (G)   After the City Council issues an order regarding the building, a copy
of the order shall be mailed to the property owner, lienholder and mortgagee; a
copy shall be filed with the City Secretary and a copy shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city.
   (H)   After the City Council has issued an order, if the order is not
complied with, the city can take the action specified in §
150.163 to enforce the order, including (in some cases) repair by the city and/
or demolition of the building.
   (I)   If the city is forced to either do the work to repair the building or
to demolish it, the city should keep an itemized account that can be used to
file a notice of lien on the property. No utility service, building permit or
certificate of occupancy shall be allowed until the assessment is paid.
   (J)   If the City Council determines that the building creates an immediate
danger, the city may take the action set out in §
150.166 to secure or repair or remove or demolish the structure after giving
notice to the owner and any lienholders of the intent to do so.
   (K)   Under some circumstances (as outlined in §
150.999(I)(1)) the city may impose civil penalties against the property owner.
(Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
150.004, which is designed to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens and residents of the city, shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
$2,000.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
150.005(B) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon final conviction
thereof fined in an amount not exceeding $2,000 for violations of all
provisions that govern fire safety, public health and sanitation, and not
exceeding $500 for all other violations. Each and every day any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense punishable hereunder.
   (D)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
150.020 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon final conviction
thereof fined in an amount not exceeding $2,000 for violations of all
provisions that govern fire safety, public health and sanitation, and not
exceeding $500 for all other violations; provided, however, that no penalty
shall be greater or less than the penalty provided for the same or similar
offense under the laws of the state. Each and every day any such violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense punishable hereunder.
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
150.095(B)(5) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500. Each day of violation shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (F)   A violation of any provision of §
150.040 shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, such
violation shall be punishable by a fine in an amount not to exceed $2,000. Each
day of violation shall constitute a separate offense. Neither allegation nor
evidence of culpable mental state is required for the proof of an offense
defined by §
150.040.
   (G)   Any person firm or corporation who shall construct or attempt to
construct any building or other structure within said city without a permit
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by fine of not less than $5 and
not more than $100; and that each and every day that §§
150.076 through
150.080 may be violated shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
150.130 through
150.143 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.
   (I)   (1)   Civil penalty, §§
150.155 through
150.169.
         (a)   Civil penalty authorized. In addition to any other enforcement
authority provided by law, the City Council may, by order, at an administrative
hearing, assess a civil penalty against a property owner as provided for herein
for failure to comply with an order issued by and pursuant to §
150.161.
         (b)   Showing required. The civil penalty may be assessed if it shown
at the administrative hearing that both of the following apply:
            1.   The property owner was notified of the contents of the order
issued pursuant to §
150.162; and
            2.   The property owner committed an act in violation of the order
or failed to take an action necessary for compliance with the order.
         (c)   Amount of penalty. The civil penalty may be assessed in an
amount not to exceed $1,000 per day for each violation or, if the owner shows
that the property is the owner’s lawful homestead, in an amount not to exceed
$10 per day for each violation.
         (d)   Notice of administrative hearing.
            1.   Not less than ten days prior to the date on which the
administrative hearing is set, the property owner shall be sent a notice of the
hearing by certified mail, return receipt requested.
            2.   The notice shall contain all of the following:
               a.   A copy of the order issued by the City Council pursuant to
§
150.161;
               b.   A statement that the Building Inspector has determined that
the property owner committed an act in violation of that order, or failed to
take an action necessary for compliance with that order;
               c.   A statement that at the administrative hearing the City
Council may assess a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000 per day for each
violation or, if the owner shows that the property is the owner’s lawful
homestead, in an amount not to exceed $10 per day for each violation; and
               d.   Notice of the time and place of the hearing.
         (e)   Copy of order filed with District Clerk. After the civil penalty
is assessed, the City Secretary shall file with the District Clerk of the
county in which the property is located a certified copy of the order assessing
the civil penalty stating the amount and duration of the penalty.
         (f)   Enforcement. The civil penalty may be enforced by the city in a
suit brought by the city in a court of competent jurisdiction for a denial
judgment in accordance with the assessed penalty. A civil penalty under this
section is final and binding and constitutes prima facie evidence of the
penalty in any suit.
      (2)   Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of any
of the provisions of §§
150.155 through
150.169 shall be fined not more than $2,000 for each offense. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-22-1960; Ord. 014, passed 12-1-1964; Ord. 1104-1, passed 11-
8-2004; Ord. 0406-6, passed 4-10-2006; Ord. 0207-1, passed 2-12-2007; Ord.
0408-1, passed 4-14-2008; Ord. 0510-1, passed 4-19-2010; Ord. 1012-2, passed
10-8-2012; Ord. 0617-1, passed 5-22-2017)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED, MOBILE AND MODULAR HOMES
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Storage prohibited
   
151.03   Occupancy requirements
   
151.04   Existing structures
   
151.05   HUD-Code manufactured home parks
   
151.06   Requirements for manufactured home parks
   
151.07   Operating rules and regulations for parks
   
151.08   Lawfully connected to utilities
   
151.09   Fuel
   
151.10   Utility connections
   
151.11   Exceptions
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, constructed on or after June 15,
1976, meeting the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards
Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq., as administered by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, transportable in one or more
sections, which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40
body feet or more in length, or when erected on-site is 320 or more square
feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a
dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required
utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
systems. The term does not include mobile homes or recreational vehicles as
defined in this section.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A HUD-Code manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A tract of land not less than five acres in size
under single ownership, which is designed and improved to contain two or more
spaces available for long-term lease or rent to the public for the placement of
manufactured homes, and which may include private streets, buildings, and other
facilities and services for common use by the residents, in conformance with
the applicable provisions of this chapter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A division of land not less than five acres
in size for the purpose of sale of two or more lots intended to be developed
with residential units including manufactured homes, and having all necessary
public utilities, streets and other facilities as required by other ordinances
of the city.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure that was constructed before June 15, 1976,
transportable in one or more sections, which in the traveling mode is eight
body feet or more in width of 40 body feet or more in length, or when erected
on-site is 320 or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis
and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation
when connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating,
air conditioning, and electrical systems. The term does not include
recreational vehicles as defined in this chapter.
   MODULAR HOME. A prefabricated home assembled on a permanent foundation that
is not a manufactured home, and that has been constructed and inspected so that
it complies with the Standard Building Code as currently adopted by the city.
   NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL BARRIER. Any river, pond, canal, railroad, levee,
embankment, fence or hedge or road or alley.
   OWNER OCCUPIED. A mobile home or HUD-Code manufactured home that is occupied
by the lawful owner of the mobile home and the lot or land upon which it is
placed.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicular-type portable structure without a
permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled or driven which is designed as a
temporary living accommodation for recreational, camping and travel use, and
which includes, but is not limited to, travel-trailers, truck-campers, camping
trailers and self-propelled motor homes.
   SKIRT. A device for the concealment of the undercarriage of a HUD-Code
manufactured home or mobile home from view, which shall be constructed of
either prefabricated metal or wood siding.
   STORAGE. The placement or maintenance of a vacant HUD-Code manufactured home
or mobile home within the city, whether in a manufactured home park or not,
without lawfully connecting or subscribing to city electric, water, sewer or
garbage services.
   TIE DOWNS. Metal bands or other sufficient material, attached to the HUD-
Code manufactured home or mobile home and to the ground for the purpose of
holding the structure down, which must be in compliance with state and federal
laws and regulations.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 151.02 STORAGE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to store a HUD-Code manufactured home or
mobile home within the city limits. HUD-Code manufactured homes and mobile
homes existing prior to the adoption of this chapter are not exempt from this
chapter.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.03 OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to occupy a recreational vehicle
outside a manufactured home park for more than 72 hours unless said occupancy
is in conjunction with a related city sponsored event.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, occupy or connect to
city utilities, a HUD-Code manufactured home or a mobile home outside a
manufactured home park without conforming with the following provisions.
      (1)   Application.
         (a)   An application must be submitted to the City Secretary
containing the following information:
            1.   The name and address of the applicant;
            2.   The location and legal description of the property on which
the HUD-Code manufactured home or mobile home will be located;
            3.   An affidavit by the applicant regarding the type of dwelling
(whether HUD-Code manufactured home or mobile home) applied for and averring
that the structure will be owner occupied; and
            4.   The requisite information to ensure that the installation and
maintenance of the HUD-Code manufactured home or mobile home will be in
accordance with the rules and regulations required by this chapter.
         (b)   The application shall be accompanied by the application fee in
the amount of $100.
      (2)   Requirements for installation of HUD-Code manufactured homes or
mobile homes on individual lots. The installation of HUD-Code manufactured
homes or mobile homes on individual residential lots not within a manufactured
home park shall comply with the following standards.
         (a)   Prior to placement, the structure shall be inspected by the
Building Official or his or her designee to ensure the structure is habitable
and complies with 24 C.F.R. part 3280b Manufactured Home Construction and
Safety Standards.
         (b)   The minimum horizontal dimension of the main structure after
installation on the site shall not be less than 24 feet.
         (c)   Except where limited by the width of the lot and the lot
dimensions, the widest horizontal dimension of the structure must face the
street.
         (d)   The frame shall be supported by and tied to a permanent concrete
foundation and anchoring system meeting the current requirements of the Texas
Manufactured Housing Standards Act, Tex. Occupations Code, Chapter 1201, as
ministered by the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs,
Manufacturing Housing Division, or successor agency, and must otherwise comply
with all federal and state laws concerning manufactured housing.
         (e)   Axle and hitch assemblies shall be removed at the time of
placement on the foundation.
         (f)   The floor of the manufactured home shall be no more than 18
inches above the average adjacent ground level at the foundation on all sides
visible from an abutting street or from a lot containing a site built single-
family dwelling.
         (g)   A stoop, porch, patio or deck must be provided at each entrance
to the structure.
         (h)   The space between the ground level and the floor level of the
structure shall be skirted with non-degradable materials compatible in color,
style and texture with the exterior of the home if the concrete foundation does
not already enclose that space.
         (i)   The roof of the main structure shall have a pitch equal to or
greater than 2:12, and shall overhang the exterior walls at least six inches.
         (j)   1.   Site-built attached additions, and detached structures in
the front or side yards, must be compatible in color, style and materials with
the exterior of the manufactured structure.
            2.   Detached structures that are not compatible in color, style
and materials must be located in the rear yard.
         (k)   Electrical power service shall be obtained through a city
approved meter installed on the exterior of the manufactured home, if the meter
base was preinstalled by the home manufacturer.
         (l)   The owner shall cancel the personal property title on the
manufactured home so that it can be rendered as real property for the purpose
of ownership, taxes, insurance and financing.
         (m)   The land and structure shall be under the same ownership.
         (n)   All of the lot area requirements and building setback
requirements for residential housing within the city shall be complied with.
         (o)   All rules and regulations of the city regarding the water and
sewer service and the installation and maintenance thereof shall be complied
with.
         (p)   The owner/occupier shall also subscribe to the city garbage
collection service.
      (3)   Review of application by Mayor. The Mayor or his or her designee
shall review the application to ensure that all city regulations are complied
with, including, but not limited to, Ord. 1105-2, Subdivisions, of the city
ordinances. The Mayor or his or her designee shall also ensure that all
utilities are readily available. In the event that the application does not
comply with the provisions of this code, the City Manager or his or her
designee shall cause a written notice to be issued to the applicant indicating
the deficiencies and requirements for curing the same. The applicant shall have
a period of 30 days in which to cure the deficiencies noted. Otherwise, a new
application and application fee will be required. If the application does meet
all city regulations, the license shall be issued to allow placement of the
manufactured home.
      (4)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy. No person shall occupy a
manufactured home and no utility services shall be provided to a manufactured
home until the Building Official issues a certificate of occupancy. No
certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the manufactured home complies
with all placement requirements contained in this section and with all other
applicable requirements in the city ordinances.
      (5)   Transfers of title. A mobile home license may be transferred by its
owner along with a conveyance of the lot upon which it is situated by the
owner. A copy of the document transferring the license shall be filed with the
City Manager.
      (6)   Changes in occupancy. Although no application for the establishment
of a mobile home or manufactured home to be located outside of a mobile home
park shall be granted if the intent is to rent or lease the mobile home or
manufactured home, a moratorium shall exist for presently existing mobile homes
or manufactured homes for rental purposes, which shall begin upon the passage
of the ordinance amending this chapter to so provide and shall end 60 days from
such date. Within such 60-day period, the owner of a mobile home or
manufactured home which is presently located within the city which is intended
to be used for rental purposes shall be entitled to apply for a license for
such mobile home or manufactured home. After the expiration of such 60-day
period, no applications shall be considered for mobile homes or manufactured
homes that are intended to be rented or leased. It shall also be unlawful for
any mobile home or manufactured home to be occupied by more than a single
family and all mobile homes or manufactured homes located inside or outside of
mobile home parks shall be limited to single-family occupancy. Except for those
mobile homes or manufactured homes that are rented or leased and have obtained
licenses pursuant to the moratorium set forth herein, it shall also be unlawful
for any mobile home or manufactured home to be occupied by anyone other than
its owner or members of the owner’s immediate family. In the event that any
existing licensed mobile home or manufactured home changes occupancy in a
manner that makes the occupancy of the same a violation of the terms of the
ordinances of the city, such occupancy shall constitute grounds for the
cancellation of the license previous issued and, after a written notice of ten
days to cease the violation, the City Manager shall have the authority to
cancel the license and order the mobile home or manufactured home to be
vacated.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.04 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   HUD-Code manufactured home and mobile homes that are presently being
occupied in compliance with previous regulations of the city shall not be
required to comply with the provisions of §
151.03, but if an existing structure is moved or substantially rebuilt or if
its occupancy or ownership or the ownership of the land upon which it is
situated is changed, the license procedure must be followed prior to its
occupancy.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 151.05 HUD-CODE MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, occupy or connect to city
utilities a manufactured home park without conforming with the following
standards and provisions.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   An application must be submitted to the City Secretary containing
the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant;
         (b)   The location and legal description of the property on which the
park is to be located;
         (c)   A complete plan of the park showing compliance with §
151.06;
         (d)   The application must be accompanied by copies of plans and
specifications of all buildings and other improvements to be constructed,
including water, sewer, gas, electricity, telephone, garbage disposal and other
such facilities; and
         (e)   The requisite information to ensure that the establishment of
the park shall comply with all rules and regulations applicable to such parts.
      (2)   The application must be accompanied by an application fee in the
amount of $100.
   (B)   Review of application by Mayor. The Mayor shall review the application
to ensure that all city regulations are complied with. The Mayor shall also
ensure that all utilities are readily available.
   (C)   Public hearing and issuance of license.
      (1)   After review of the application, if the application otherwise
complies with the rules and regulations for establishment of a manufactured
home park, then the City Manager shall notify in writing the applicant and all
property owners owning property, according to the most recent city tax rolls,
within 200 feet of the land for which an application has been submitted, of a
public hearing to be held on the application. A public hearing shall be held by
the City Council not less than ten days nor more than 30 days after such
notification, at which time the City Council shall determine whether the
provisions of this code have been complied with. In cases of unavoidable
necessity, the City Council shall have the right to grant a variance to the
applicant. The City Council may also refuse to issue a license to the applicant
if the City Council reasonably determines that the effect on the surrounding
property and the appearance of the neighborhood will be adversely affected
because of the size, appearance, relative placement or expected use of the
structure. In the event of such refusal, the City Council shall authorize the
Mayor to state in writing to the applicant the reasons for such refusal, in
terms containing such specifics as will allow the applicant to correct any
deficiencies, where possible. The city shall issue a license for the placement
of the structure only after a favorable vote by the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council may also establish reasonable conditions of
approval, such as:
         (a)   Requirements for special yards, lot sizes, open spaces, buffers,
fences, walls or screening;
         (b)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of landscaping or
erosion control measures;
         (c)   Requirements for street improvements and dedications;
         (d)   Control of vehicular access, parking and traffic circulation;
         (e)   Limits on signage;
         (f)   Limits on hours or other characteristics of operation;
         (g)   Establishment of development schedules or time limits for
completion or for the duration of the permit; and
         (h)   Any other conditions the Council may deem necessary to ensure
compatibility with surrounding uses and to preserve the public health, safety
and general welfare.
   (D)   Transfers of title. A mobile home license may be transferred by its
owner along with a conveyance of the park upon which it is situated by the
owner. A copy of the document transferring the license shall be filed with the
city.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.06 REQUIREMENTS FOR MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Manufactured home park plan. Manufactured home parks shall conform to
the following requirements.
      (1)   The park shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded
to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
      (2)   Manufactured home lots shall be at least 4,000 square feet in area
and shall not be less than 35 feet wide and shall be clearly defined.
Manufactured homes or recreational vehicles shall be so harbored on each lot
that there shall be at least a 25 feet clearance between manufactured homes or
recreational vehicles. No manufactured home or recreational vehicle shall be
closer than 25 feet from any building within the park or 25 feet from any
property line bounding the park.
      (3)   All manufactured home lots shall either abut upon a city street or
shall abut upon a driveway of not less than 20 feet in width which shall have
unobstructed access to a public street or highway. All driveways shall be
constructed with, at a minimum, a limestone base to a depth of three inches or
equivalent.
      (4)   Walkways not less than two feet wide shall be provided from the
manufactured home lots to the service buildings. The walkway shall be hard-
surfaced, as that term is defined in division (A)(3) above, well-marked in the
daytime and lighted at night.
      (5)   For each manufactured home lot there shall be two off-street
parking spaces provided.
      (6)   All dependent manufactured home parks and/or subdivisions shall
provide restroom and shower facilities in a central location.
      (7)   The structure of each HUD-Code manufactured home or mobile home in
a park shall be supported by and tied to a foundation and anchoring system
meeting the current requirements of the Texas Manufactured Housing Standards
Act, Tex. Occupation Code, Chapter 1201, as administered by the Texas
Department of Housing and Community Affairs, Manufactured Housing Division, or
successor agency, and the installation and maintenance of the structure shall
otherwise be in accordance with federal and state laws and regulations.
      (8)   A stoop, porch, patio or deck must be provided at each entrance to
the manufactured home.
      (9)   The space between ground level and the manufactured home’s floor
level shall be skirted with non-degradable materials compatible in color, style
and texture with the exterior of the home if the concrete foundation does not
already enclose that space.
      (10)   All spaces for recreational vehicles shall be of hard surface
construction of an adequate width and length to provide adequate space for the
location of the recreational vehicle.
   (B)   Location. Manufactured home parks may be located only in conformity
with the regulations of the city, and in addition to the requirements contained
therein each boundary of the park must be at least 200 feet from any permanent
residential building located outside the park, unless separated therefrom by a
natural or artificial barrier, or unless a majority of the property owners
according to area within said 200 feet consent in writing to the establishment
of the park.
   (C)   Maintenance. Every person owning or operating a manufactured home park
shall maintain such park, and any facilities, fixtures and permanent equipment
in connection therewith, in a clean and sanitary condition and shall maintain
said equipment in a state of good repair.
   (D)   Additional construction. It shall be unlawful for any person operating
a manufactured home park or occupying a manufactured home or recreational
vehicle to construct, or permit to be constructed in such park, or in
connection with such manufactured home or recreational vehicle, any additional
structure, building or shelter in connection with or attached to a manufactured
home or recreational vehicle, except, however, awnings of canvass or metal,
suitably constructed, may be attached to said manufactured home or recreational
vehicle, as well as portable, prefabricated, temporary rooms, for the express
purpose of increasing manufactured home or recreational vehicle living area,
commonly called “cabana”, which meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Of metal only, fire-resistive, double wall, mechanical joint panels
(no welded points between panels permitted);
      (2)   Strength of materials and structure to meet minimum standards of
the City Building Code;
      (3)   Capable of being dismantled when moved;
      (4)   Such rooms shall be completely dismantled and removed from the site
at the time the manufactured home or recreational vehicle to which it is
accessory is moved;
      (5)   Finish and appearance to be as near the same as possible to the
manufactured home or recreational vehicle to which it is accessory;
      (6)   The length must not exceed the length of the manufactured home or
recreational vehicle to which it is accessory; and
      (7)   Only one such room per manufactured home and recreational vehicle
shall be permitted.
   (E)   Office building. Each manufactured home park shall be provided with a
building to be known and clearly designated as the office, in which shall be
kept copies of all records pertaining to the management and supervision of the
park, as well as all rules and regulations of the park, and such records, rules
and regulations shall be available for inspection by the residents or the city.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.07 OPERATING RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PARKS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner and, his or her agent,
representative or manager to prescribe rules and regulations for the management
of the park; to make adequate provisions for the enforcement of such rules; and
to publish any such rules and regulations to the residents of such park.
   (B)   Copies of all such rules and regulations shall be furnished to the
City Council, in addition thereto, it shall be the duty of the owner, his or
her agent, representative or manager to comply strictly with the following:
      (1)   Provide for regular inspection of the water and sanitary
conveniences;
      (2)   Provide for the collection and removal or garbage and other waste
material;
      (3)   Prohibit the placing or storage of unsightly material or vehicles
of any kind;
      (4)   Provide or demand that all manufactured homes or recreational
vehicles have skirts and tie downs within 60 days of placement; and
      (5)   Tie downs shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations of
the state and the United States.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 LAWFULLY CONNECTED TO UTILITIES.
   All structures licensed under this chapter shall be connected to city
electric, water and sewer and subscribe to city garbage services.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 151.09 FUEL.
   (A)   Bottled gas for cooking purposes shall not be used at individual
manufactured homes or recreational vehicle lots unless the containers are
properly connected by copper or suitable metallic tubing.
   (B)   Bottled gas cylinders shall be securely fastened in place. No cylinder
containing bottled gas shall be located in a manufactured home or recreational
vehicle within five feet of a door thereof.
   (C)   State and local regulations applicable to the handling of bottled gas
and fuel oil must be followed.
   (D)   The maximum number of gallons of bottled gas per manufactured home or
recreational vehicle shall be no more than one five gallon and one 15 gallon
container. The maximum amount of fuel oil per manufactured home or recreational
vehicle shall not be more than 55 gallons.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 151.10 UTILITY CONNECTIONS.
   No city utilities shall be connected to property containing a manufactured
home or mobile home which has not received a license pursuant to the provisions
of this code. If any utility connections have been made to property containing
a manufactured home or mobile home which has not received a license, then the
owner of such property shall have a period of 60 days from the date such owner
receives written notice from the city in which to fully comply with the code of
ordinances of the city and obtain an appropriate license for the manufactured
home or mobile home. If such owner has not complied with the code of ordinances
and obtained a license within such period of time, then all utilities to the
property shall be disconnected and shall remain disconnected until a license
has been acquired in conformance with this code. The notice to be given
hereunder shall given in writing by the building official or City Manager and
shall be personally delivered to the property address or delivered by certified
mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner of the property at the
address of the owner as shown by the city records.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 151.11 EXCEPTIONS.
   The City Council reserves the right, upon receipt of an appropriate
application in a form to be prescribed by the Mayor and City Secretary, to
grant qualified exceptions to the requirements of this chapter, where the
exceptions sought and granted do not defeat the overall purposes of this
chapter to control density of population, parking, the need for open space and
fire hazards within the city which may interfere with the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. 0408-3, passed 4-14-2008)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
Statutory Authorization, Findings of Fact, Purpose and Methods
   
152.001   Statutory authorization
   
152.002   Findings of fact
   
152.003   Statement of purpose
   
152.004   Methods of reducing flood losses
Definitions
   
152.015   Definitions
General Provisions
   
152.030   Lands to which this chapter applies
   
152.031   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.032   Establishment of development permit
   
152.033   Compliance
   
152.034   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
152.035   Interpretation
   
152.036   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
152.050   Designation of Floodplain Administrator
   
152.051   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
   
152.052   Permit procedures
   
152.053   Variance procedures
Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction
   
152.065   General standards
   
152.066   Specific standards
   
152.067   Standards for subdivision proposals
   
152.068   Standards for areas of shallow flooding (AO/AH Zones)
   
152.069   Floodways
 
   
152.999   Penalty
STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT, PURPOSE AND METHODS
§ 152.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has in the Flood Control Insurance Act, Tex.
Water Code, § 16.315, delegated the responsibility of local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Therefore, the City
Council does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation,
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the
public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of
obstructions in floodplains which cause an increase in flood heights and
velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to
floods and hazardous to other lands because they are inadequately elevated,
floodproofed or otherwise protected from flood damage.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Protect human life and health;
   (B)   Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood control
projects;
   (C)   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and
gas mains, electric, telephone and sewer lines, streets and bridges located in
floodplains;
   (F)   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize future flood
blight areas; and
   (G)   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood
area.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.004 METHODS OF REDUCING FLOOD LOSSES.
   In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following
methods:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or
property in times of flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or
velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase flood damage; and
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
DEFINITIONS
§ 152.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING. Flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan
or similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-
velocity flows; active processes of erosion, sediment transport and deposition;
and unpredictable flow paths.
   APEX. A point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow
path of the major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial
fan flooding can occur.
   APPURTENANT STRUCTURE. A structure which is on the same parcel of property
as the principal structure to be insured and the use of which is incidental to
the use of the principal structure
   AREA OF FUTURE CONDITIONS FLOOD HAZARD. The land area that would be
inundated by the 1% annual chance (100-year) flood based on future conditions
hydrology.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO, AH, AR/AO, AR/AH, or VO zone on a
community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1% or greater annual chance
of flooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly defined
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable and where
velocity flow may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or
sheet flow.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may
be designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed
rate making has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone
A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, AR/AE,
AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   BASEMENT. Any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground
level) on all sides.
   BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the
building and is intended through its design and construction to collapse under
specific lateral loading forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion
of the building or supporting foundation system.
   CRITICAL FEATURE. An integral and readily identifiable part of a flood
protection system, without which the flood protection provided by the entire
system would be compromised.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved and unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of
equipment or materials.
   ELEVATED BUILDING. For insurance purposes, a non-basement building, which
has its lowest elevated floor, raised above ground level by foundation walls,
shear walls, posts, piers, pilings or columns.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. For the purposes of determining rates, structures for
which the start of construction commenced before the effective date of the FIRM
or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that date. EXISTING
CONSTRUCTION may also be referred to as EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY. An examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community on which the
Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the special flood
hazard areas and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). See FLOOD ELEVATION STUDY.
   FLOODPLAIN or FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area susceptible to being inundated
by water from any source (see definition of FLOODING).
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage, including, but not limited to,
emergency preparedness plans, flood control works and floodplain management
regulations.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. Zoning ordinances, subdivision
regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
(such as a floodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control
ordinance) and other applications of police power. The term describes such
state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards
for the purpose of flood damage prevention and reduction.
   FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds
have been authorized, appropriated and expended and which have been constructed
specifically to modify flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area
within a community subject to a special flood hazard and the extent of the
depths of associated flooding. Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These specialized flood modifying
works are those constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards.
   FLOODPROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
   FLOODWAY. See REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE. A use, which cannot perform its intended purpose
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term
includes only docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the
loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, and ship building and ship repair
facilities, but does not include long-term storage or related manufacturing
facilities.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface
prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure that is:
      (1)   Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a
listing maintained by the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined
by the Secretary of the Interior as meeting the requirements for individual
listing on the National Register;
      (2)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
Interior as contributing to the historical significance of a registered
historic district or a district preliminarily determined by the Secretary to
qualify as a registered historic district;
      (3)   Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in
states with historic preservation programs which have been approved by the
Secretary of the Interior; or
      (4)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in
communities with historic preservation programs that have been certified
either:
         (a)   By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of
the Interior; or
         (b)   Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without
approved programs.
   LEVEE. A human-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control,
or divert the flow of water so as to provide protection from temporary
flooding.
   LEVEE SYSTEM. A flood protection system which consists of a levee, or
levees, and associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which
are constructed and operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking or vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement area is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided that such
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirement of § 60.3 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MEAN SEA LEVEL. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 or other datum, to which base
flood elevations shown on a community’s Flood Insurance Rate Map are
referenced.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. For the purpose of determining insurance rates, structures
for which the start of construction commenced on or after the effective date of
an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes
any subsequent improvements to such structures. For floodplain management
purposes, NEW CONSTRUCTION means structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of a floodplain management regulation
adopted by a community and includes any subsequent improvements to such
structures.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood
without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
designated height.
   RIVERINE. Relating to, formed by or resembling a river (including
tributaries), stream, brook and the like.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. See AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. No. 97-348),
includes substantial improvement and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, addition placement or other improvement was within 180 days of
the permit date. The ACTUAL START means either the first placement of permanent
construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings,
the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the ACTUAL START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as
well as a manufactured home.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or other improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure before start of construction of the improvement. This term
includes structures which have incurred substantial damage, regardless of the
actual repair work performed.
      (2)   The term does not, however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a historic structure, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
historic structure.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief by a community from the terms of a floodplain
management regulation. (For full requirements see § 60.6 of the National Flood
Insurance Program regulations.)
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with the community’s floodplain management regulations. A structure
or other development without the elevation certificate, other certifications,
or other evidence of compliance required in § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)
(3), (e)(2), (e)(4) or (e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program
regulations is presumed to be in violation until such time as that
documentation is provided.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the National Geodetic
Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929 (or other datum, where specified), of floods of
various magnitudes and frequencies in the floodplains of coastal or riverine
areas.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.030 LANDS TO WHICH THIS CHAPTER APPLIES.
   The chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazard within the
jurisdiction of city.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.031 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency in the current scientific and engineering report entitled,
The Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for Cooke County, Texas and Incorporated Areas,
Volume 1, dated September 29, 2006, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
and/or Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps (FIRM and/or FBFM) dated September 29,
2006, and any revisions thereto are hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this chapter.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.032 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required to ensure conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.033 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be located, altered or have its use
changed without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.034 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.035 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.036 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations.
   (B)   On rare occasions greater floods can and will occur and flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special
flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or
flood damages.
   (D)   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the community
or any official or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.050 DESIGNATION OF FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Engineer is hereby appointed the Floodplain Administrator to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and other appropriate
sections of C.F.R. Title 44 (Emergency Management and Assistance; National
Flood Insurance Program Regulations) pertaining to floodplain management.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.051 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE FLOODPLAIN ADMINISTRATOR.
   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include,
but not be limited to, the following:
   (A)   Maintain and hold open for public inspection all records pertaining to
the provisions of this chapter;
   (B)   Review permit application to determine whether to ensure that the
proposed building site project, including the placement of manufactured homes,
will be reasonably safe from flooding;
   (C)   Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits
required by adoption of this chapter;
   (D)   Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies (including § 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required;
   (E)   Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the areas of special flood hazards (for example, where there
appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions)
the Floodplain Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation;
   (F)   Notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the State
Coordinating Agency prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and
submit evidence of such notification to the Federal Emergency Management
Agency;
   (G)   Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or
relocated portion of any watercourse is maintained;
   (H)   When base flood elevation data has not been provided in accordance
with §
152.031, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
utilize any base flood elevation data and floodway data available from a
federal, state or other source, in order to administer the provisions of §§
152.065 through
152.069;
   (I)   When a regulatory floodway has not been designated, the Floodplain
Administrator must require that no new construction, substantial improvements
or other development (including fill) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30 and
AE on the community’s FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the
base flood more than one foot at any point within the community; and
   (J)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 65.12, of the National
Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain
development in Zones A1-30, AE, AH, on the community’s FIRM which increases the
water surface elevation of the base flood by more than one foot, provided that
the community first completes all of the provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.052 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be presented to
the Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her and may include,
but not be limited to, plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the location,
dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations, existing and
proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the
location of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard.
Additionally, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any nonresidential
structure shall be floodproofed;
      (3)   A certificate from a registered professional engineer or architect
that the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing
criteria of §
152.066(B);
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural
drainage will be altered or relocated as a result of proposed development; and
      (5)   Maintain a record of all such information in accordance with §
152.051(A).
   (B)   Approval or denial of a floodplain development permit by the
Floodplain Administrator shall be based on all of the provisions of this
chapter and the following relevant factors:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
      (2)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (3)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
      (4)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
      (5)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
      (6)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and bridges, and public
utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
      (7)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site;
      (8)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable; and
      (9)   The availability of alternative locations, not subject to flooding
or erosion damage, for the proposed use.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.053 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Appeal Board, as established by the community, shall hear and
render judgment on requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Appeal Board shall hear and render judgment on an appeal only when
it is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination
made by the Floodplain Administrator in the enforcement or administration of
this chapter.
   (C)   Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board
may appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction.
   (D)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions
involving an appeal and shall report variances to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency upon request.
   (E)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this chapter.
   (F)   Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous
to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below the base
flood level, providing the relevant factors in §
152.052(B) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
   (G)   Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this
chapter, the Appeal Board may attach such conditions to the granting of
variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and objectives of this
chapter (§
152.003).
   (H)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
   (I)   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure and
the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the historic character and
design of the structure.
   (J)   Prerequisites for granting variances.
      (1)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (2)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing a good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
      (3)   Any application to which a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation, and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
   (K)   Variances may be issued by a community for new construction and
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the conduct of
a functionally dependent use provided that:
      (1)   The criteria outlined in divisions (A) through (I) above are met;
and
      (2)   The structure or other development is protected by methods that
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no additional threats
to public safety.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 152.065 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards the following provisions are required
for all new construction and substantial improvements.
   (A)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
including the effects of buoyancy.
   (B)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials resistant to flood damage.
   (D)   All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed
with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air conditioning equipment
and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
flooding.
   (E)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (F)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and
discharge from the systems into flood waters.
   (G)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007) Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.066 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has
been provided as set forth in §§
152.031,
152.051(H) or
152.067(C), the following provisions are required.
   (A)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial improvement
of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor (including basement),
elevated two feet to or above the base flood elevation. A registered
professional engineer, architect or land surveyor shall submit a certification
to the Floodplain Administrator that the standard of this division (A) as
proposed in §
152.052(A)(3) is satisfied.
   (B)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvements of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated two feet to or
above the base flood level or together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, be designed so that below the base flood level the structure is
watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and
with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer
or architect shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications and
plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of
construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
in this division (B). A record of such certification which includes the
specific elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained by the Floodplain Administrator.
   (C)   Enclosures.
      (1)   New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed
areas below the lowest floor that are usable solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which are
subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
floodwaters.
      (2)   Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
registered professional engineer or architect or meet or exceed the following
minimum criteria.
         (a)   A minimum of two openings on separate walls having a total net
area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding shall be provided.
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot
above grade.
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters.
   (D)   Manufactured homes.
      (1)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes
must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
      (2)   Require that manufactured homes that are placed or substantially
improved within Zones A1-30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM on sites:
         (a)   Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision:
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood, be
elevated on a permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the
manufactured home is elevated two feet to or above the base flood elevation and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement.
      (3)   Require that manufactured homes be placed or substantially improved
on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones A1-30,
AH and AE on the community’s FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
this division (D) be elevated so that either:
         (a)   The lowest floor of the manufactured home is two feet at or
above the base flood elevation; or
         (b)   The manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers
or other foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less
than 36 inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
   (E)   Recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Require that recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-
30, AH and AE on the community’s FIRM either:
         (a)   Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use; or
         (c)   Meet the permit requirements of §
152.052(A) and the elevation and anchoring requirements for manufactured homes
in division (D) above.
      (2)   A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its
wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.067 STANDARDS FOR SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall be consistent with §§
152.002,
152.003 and
152.004.
   (B)   All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the
placement of manufactured home parks and subdivisions shall meet floodplain
development permit requirements of §§
152.032,
152.052 and
152.065 through
152.069.
   (C)   Base flood elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions which is greater than 50 lots or five acres, whichever
is lesser, if not otherwise provided pursuant to §§
152.031 or
152.051(H).
   (D)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure
to flood hazards.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home
parks and subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to minimize or
eliminate flood damage.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.068 STANDARDS FOR AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING (AO/AH ZONES).
   (A)   Located within the areas of special flood hazard established in §
152.051, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These areas have special
flood hazards associated with flood depths of one to three feet where a clearly
defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable,
and where velocity flow may be evident.
   (B)   Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefor, the
following provisions apply:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated two feet to or
above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as high
as the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least two
feet if no depth number is specified);
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated two feet to
or above the base flood elevation or the highest adjacent grade at least as
high as the depth number specified in feet on the community’s FIRM (at least
two feet if no depth number is specified); or
         (b)   Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be
designed so that below the base specified flood depth in an AO Zone, or below
the base flood elevation in an AH Zone, level the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads of effects of buoyancy.
      (3)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a
certification to the Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this
section, as proposed in §
152.052 are satisfied; and
      (4)   Require within Zones AH or AO adequate drainage paths around
structures on slopes, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed
structures.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.069 FLOODWAYS.
   (A)   Floodways located within areas of special flood hazard established in
§
152.031, are areas designated as floodways.
   (B)   Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of flood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion
potential, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory
floodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic
analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the
proposed encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within
the community during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
      (2)   If division (B)(1) above is satisfied, all new construction and
substantial improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard
reduction provisions of §§
152.065 through
152.069.
      (3)   Under the provisions of 44 C.F.R. Chapter 1, § 65.12 of the
National Flood Insurance Program regulations, a community may permit
encroachments within the adopted regulatory floodway that would result in an
increase in base flood elevations, provided that the community first completes
all of the provisions required by § 65.12.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located,
extended, converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this
court order and other applicable regulations. Violation of the provisions of
this court order by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with
conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who violates this court order or fails to comply with any
of its requirements shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $500
or imprisoned for not more than 30 days, or both, for each violation, and in
addition shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the case.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
(Ord. 0307-1, passed 3-12-2007)
CHAPTER 153: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
Section
   
153.01   Definition
   
153.02   Location
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSIONS SYSTEMS, NONCOMMERCIAL. A machine (sometimes known
as a wind turbine or windmill) designed for converting kinetic energy in the
wind to mechanical or electrical energy, for the primary purpose of on-site use
and not for resale or transmission off-site. WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
include tower and all directly connected facilities and associated control
equipment, but not including any wired connections stemming from the tower.
(Ord. 1111-1, passed 1-23-2012)
§ 153.02 LOCATION.
   Wind energy conversion systems are allowed as accessory structures in all
zoning districts, provided the following standards are met.
   (A)   All wind turbines must be approved by specific use permit.
   (B)   Wind energy conversion systems shall not exceed a maximum height of
100 feet measured from average natural ground level, to the highest point of
the arc of the wind blades’ elevation above such ground level.
   (C)   Wind energy conversion systems shall be prohibited from the entire
front yard of all lots, that is, from all that space between each lot’s front
boundary and the closest wall of the principal building on that lot.
   (D)   (1)   Wind energy conversion systems shall be set back from all
boundaries of any lot, by a distance equal to at least 100% of the tower’s
height, as measured from the average natural ground level, to the highest point
of the arc of the wind blades’ elevation above such ground level.
      (2)   Setback distance shall be measured from the base of each tower, at
natural ground level, to the closest boundary of the lot.
   (E)   Wind energy conversion systems shall be separated from all unguarded
(uninsulated) energized overhead electric power lines, by a distance equal to
at least ten feet as measured between such power lines and the furthest lateral
extent of the arc of the wind blades.
   (F)   Multiple wind energy conversion systems are allowed on any lot,
provided they are separated by a distance equal to at least the height of the
tallest such tower, as measured from average natural ground level to the
highest point of the wind blades’ elevation above such ground level.
   (G)   The tower for any wind energy conservation system shall be either of
monopole type construction (with no guy wires for stabilizing support) or of
lattice-type construction having either a triangular or rectangular shaped
cross-section.
   (H)   The color of all wind energy conversion systems shall be of neutral
tones or of earth tones such as subdued green or brown. Grey, including
naturally darkening galvanized grey, is also an acceptable neutral tone. Wind
energy conversions shall not be finished in bright or vivid colors intended to
draw attention to the structure.
   (I)   (1)   It is an offense to install or operate any wind energy
conversion system without first having obtained a building permit from the
city.
      (2)   An application for a building permit to install a wind energy
conversion system shall be accompanied by illustrations drawn in sufficient
detail to clearly describe the features indicated:
         (a)   A site plan showing boundaries and physical dimensions of the
lot, as well as the exact planned location of (that is, setback from lot
boundaries and separation between) each existing and proposed wind energy
conversion system on the lot, at the base of each respective system’s tower;
         (b)   An elevation view of the proposed wind energy conversion system,
indicating its height, the type of construction (monopole or latticework), the
width of its base at ground level, and the extent of the wind blades’ arc; and
         (c)   Standard drawings of structural components of each proposed wind
energy conversion system including support structures, tower, base and footings
in sufficient detail to allow for a determination that structure conforms to
the applicable Building Code adopted by the city. Drawings and any necessary
calculations shall be certified in writing by a professional engineer and shall
affirmatively state the proposed system will comply with such Building Code.
   (J)   (1)   Abatement: if a wind energy conversion system is not maintained
in operational condition or in any way poses a potential safety hazard, the
owner or operator shall take expeditious action to remedy the situation. If the
city determines that a wind energy conversion system has been abandoned or does
pose a safety hazard, the system shall be removed within 45 days of written
notice to the owner or operator of the system.
      (2)   The city reserves the authority to abate any hazardous situation
involving a wind energy conversion system, and to pass the cost of such
abatement on to the owner or operator of the system.
(Ord. 1111-1, passed 1-23-2012) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined a sum not exceeding $2,000. Each day that a
provision of this chapter is violated shall constitute a separate offense. An
offense under this chapter is a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 1111-1, passed 1-23-2012)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Adopted by reference
§ 154.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The subdivision ordinance, copies of which are on file at the City Hall, is
adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set
out at length herein.
(Ord. 06-66, passed 6- -1966; Ord. 11-72, passed 11-6-1972; Ord. 05-79, passed
5-7-1979; Ord. 04-93-02, passed 4-13-1993; Ord. 1105-2, passed 2-13-2006; Ord.
0506-3, passed 5-23-2006; Ord. 1208-2, passed 12-15-2008; Ord. 1211-1, passed
12-12-2011)
CHAPTER 155: AIRPORT ZONING
Section
   
155.01   Joint Airport Zoning Board
§ 155.01 JOINT AIRPORT ZONING BOARD.
   (A)   Subject to like provisions being made by the City Council of the City
of Gainesville, Texas, and the Commissioner’s Court of Cooke County, Texas, by
proper order, duly promulgated and entered on their minutes, and as authorized
by the provisions of Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Chapter 241, there is hereby
created a Joint Airport Zoning Board, to be known as the Gainesville-Lindsay-
Cooke County Joint Airport Zoning Board, which shall have the powers and
exercise the duties set forth in Tex. Local Gov’t Code, Chapter 241.
   (B)   The Gainesville-Lindsay-Cooke County Joint Airport Board shall be
composed of seven members, two to be appointed by the City Council of the City
of Lindsay, Texas, two to be appointed by the City Council of the City of
Gainesville, Texas and two members to be appointed by the Commissioner’s Court
of Cooke County, Texas. The seventh member shall be elected by a majority of
the members so appointed and said seventh member shall serve as Chairperson of
the said Gainesville-Lindsay-Cooke County Joint Airport Zoning Board.
(Ord. 02-83, passed 7-5-1982)
CHAPTER 156: ZONING
Section
   
156.01   Adopted by reference
§ 156.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance, copies of which are on file at the City Hall, is
adopted and incorporated as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set
out at length herein.
(Ord. 04-93-01, passed - -; Ord. 120301, passed 3-8-2004; Ord. 1004-1, passed
10-11-2004; Ord. 0105-1, passed 1-10-2005; Ord. 1105-1, passed 11-14-2005; Ord.
0907-1, passed 9-10-2007; Ord. 0508-1, passed 5-19-2008; Ord. 0510-2, passed 4-
19-2010; Ord. 0810-1, passed 8-9-2010; Ord. 1211-2, passed 12-12-2011; Ord.
1211-3, passed 12-12-2011; Ord. 0612-2, passed 6-18-2012; Ord. 0315-2, passed
3-9-2015; Ord. 0617-1, passed 6-5-2017; Ord. 1218-1, passed 1-14-2019; Ord.
0219-1, passed 3-11-2019; Ord. 0422-1, passed 5-10-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   BUDGETS
      
III.   TAX RATE CHANGES
      
IV.   TIME WARRANTS
      
V.   BONDS
      
VI.   TAX AND REVENUE CERTIFICATES
      
VII.   STREETS AND ALLEYS
      
VIII.   FRANCHISES
      
IX.   CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
05-68    5-6-1968    Extends city limits with property in the Daniel Martin
                     Survey (Abstract 618).
05-76    5-3-1976    Ordinance executing quit claim deed 20 foot strip of land
                     to Stephen Zimmerer for street.
12-77    12-5-1977   Annexing 97.75 acres to the city limits in the David
                     Sackett Survey.
8-95-1   8-15-1995   Ordinance executing quit claim deed to Stanley Hess for
                     portion of Maple Street.
06-97    6-2-1997    Annexing 5.41 acres to the city limits in the Henry Wilkey
                     Survey (Abstract 1090).
                     Annexing the parcel of land situated in the D. Martin
                     Survey (Abstract 618), the H. Wilkey Survey (Abstract
02-99    2-11-1999   1090) and the D.B. Dickinson Survey (Abstract 339), being
                     part of a 196.329 acre tract conveyed by Katherine Gieb to
                     Walter Norman.
                     Annexing 140.76 acres of land to the city limits in the D.
04-02-03 5-12-2003   Dickson Survey (Abstract 339) and D. Martin Survey
                     (Abstract 618).
                     Annexing property to the north city limits in the H.
                     Wilkey Survey (Abstract 1090), T. Jessup Survey (Abstract
                     0523), J. Bradshaw Survey (Abstract 0032), and the A.
0607-1   6-1-2007    Myers Survey (Abstract 0640) and to the south city limits
                     D.D. Sackett Survey (Abstract 0940), B.F. Carpenter Survey
                     (Abstract 0229), J. Rose Survey (Abstract 0843), C.E.
                     Anderson Survey (Abstract 1657), and the E. Yeaman Survey
                     (Abstract 1174).
                     Annexing a two acre tract of land conveyed by John P.
0212-1   2-13-2012   Sprouse to Stanley Hess, situated in Henry Wilkey Survey
                     (Abstract 1090)
                     Annexing 2.367 acres of land to the city, situated in the
0512-1   5-14-2012   Henry Wilkey Survey (Abstract 1090) and the Allan Elston
                     Survey (Abstract 350).
                     Annexing 31.669 acres of land to the city, and extending
                     the boundary limits of said city so as to include
1212-1   12-10-2012  described property within the city limits and adopting a
                     service plan for said territory and its inhabitants
                     (Lindsay Independent School District).
0317-1   3-13-2017   Annexing territory to the city comprising approximately
                     five acres more or less, by Greg and Stacey Martin.
0317-2   3-13-2017   Annexing territory to the city comprising approximately
                     7.013 acres by Kevin and Marilyn Sebade.
                     Annexing territory to the city comprising approximately
0323-2   3-21-2023   27.307 acres of land situated in the Henry Wilkey Survey,
                     abstract number 1090.
                    
 
TABLE II: BUDGETS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
0905-4   9-12-2005   Adopting the 2005-2006 budget.
1105-3   11-14-2005  Amending the 2004-2005 budget.
0906-3   9-11-2006   Adopting the 2006-2007 budget.
0907-4   9-10-2007   Adopting the 2007-2008 budget.
0808-2   8-19-2008   Adopting the 2008-2009 budget.
1008-1   10-13-2008  Amending 2007-2008 budget.
0909-1   9-22-2009   Adopting the 2009-2010 budget.
1009-1   10-12-2009  Amending 2008-2009 budget.
0910-1   9-13-2010   Amending 2009 budget.
0910-3   9-13-2010   Adopting the 2010-2011 budget.
0911-1   9-19-2011   Adopting the 2011-2012 budget.
1011-2   10-10-2011  Amending the 2010-2011 budget.
0912-1   9-10-2012   Adopting the 2012-2013 budget.
0913-1   9-10-2013   Adopting the 2013-2014 budget.
0914-1   9-8-2014    Adopting the 2014-2013 budget.
0915-1   9-21-2015   Adopting the 2015-2016 budget.
0916-1   9-27-2016   Adopting the 2016-2017 budget.
1017-1   10-10-2017  Amending the 2016-2017 budget.
0919-1   9-9-2019    Adopting the 2019-2020 budget.
0320-03  3-9-2020    Amending the 2019-2020 budget.
0920-1   9-1-2020    Adopting the 2020-2021 budget.
0621-2   6-1-2021    Adopting the 2020-2021 budget.
0921-1   9-14-2021   Adopting the 2021-2022 budget.
0921-3   9-14-2021   Adopting the 2021-2022 budget.
0922-1   9-13-2022   Adopting the 2022-2023 budget.
0922-3   9-13-2022   Amending the 2021-2022 budget.
0923-1   9-12-2023   Adopting the 2023-2024 budget.
0923-3   9-12-2023   Amending the 2022-2023 budget.
                    
 
TABLE III: TAX RATE CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
0905- 9-12-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2005 as follows:
5     2005   0.222400.
0906- 9-11-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2006 as follows:
4     2006   0.212000.
0907- 9-10-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2007 as follows:
5     2007   0.221600.
0907- 9-10-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
6     2007   budget by $7,387.44.
0808- 8-19-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2008 as follows:
3     2008   0.245700.
0808- 8-19-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
4     2008   budget by 17.559809%.
0909- 9-22-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2009 as follows:
2     2009   0.245700.
0909- 9-22-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
3     2009   budget by 6.36%.
0910- 9-13-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
4     2010   budget by 19.24%.
0910- 9-13-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2009 as follows:
5     2010   0.28194.
0911- 9-19-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2009 as follows:
2     2011   0.280300.
0912- 9-10-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2009 as follows:
2     2012   0.348500.
0912- 9-10-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
3     2012   budget by 21.79%.
0913- 9-10-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2014 as follows:
2     2013   0.386200.
0913- 9-10-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
3     2013   budget by 12.9874%.
0914- 9-8-   Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2014 as follows:
2     2014   0.386200.
0914- 9-8-   Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
3     2014   budget by 6.186417%.
0915- 9-21-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
1     2015   budget by 0.599114%.
0915- 9-21-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2015 as follows:
2     2015   0.386200.
0915- 9-21-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
3     2015   budget by 0.599114%.
0916- 9-27-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
1     2016   budget by 18.3770%.
0916- 9-27-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2016 as follows:
2     2016   0.436200.
0916- 9-27-  Proposed tax rate will raise more total property taxes than last year’s
3     2016   budget by 18.3770%.
0918- 9-10-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for tax year 2018 as follows:
3     2018   0.486200.
0919- 9-9-   Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for the tax year 2019 as follows:
3     2019   0.486200.
0920- 9-1-   Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for the tax year 2020 as follows:
3     2020   0.486200.
0921- 9-14-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for the tax year 2021 as follows:
2     2021   0.486200.
0922- 9-13-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for the tax year 2022 as follows:
2     2022   0.432900.
0923- 9-12-  Adopting a tax rate of $100 valuation for the tax year 2023 as follows:
2     2023   0.40335.
            
 
TABLE IV: TIME WARRANTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing the issuance of a time warrant in the total
1008-2   10-13-2008  amount of $240,000 to Landmark Bank, for the purpose of
                     constructing a street system improvement project.
                     Authorizing the issuance of a time warrant in the total
1109-1   11-9-2009   amount of $200,000 to Landmark Bank, N.A., for the purpose
                     of refinancing existing water and sewer debt at Greater
                     Texoma Utility Authority.
                    
 
TABLE V: BONDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
03-68    3-9-1968    Authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds.
-        - -1980     Authorizing the issuance of revenue bonds.
                     Relating to Greater Texoma Utility Authority contract
0710-1   7-12-2010   revenue bonds, Series 2010; approving the issuance
                     thereof.
                    
 
TABLE VI: TAX AND REVENUE CERTIFICATES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
0713-1   7-8-2013    Authorizing issuance and sale tax/revenue certificates of
                     obligation series 2013.
1014-2   10-28-2014  Authorizing issuance and sale tax/revenue certificates of
                     obligation series 2014.
1117-2   12-11-2017  Authorizing issuance and sale tax/revenue certificates of
                     obligation series 2018.
                    
 
TABLE VII: STREETS AND ALLEYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
04-84    4-9-1984    Closing certain unopened and unused street that were laid
                     out and platted in J.M. Lindsay Subdivision.
                     Providing that all the alleys located in Block 5 of the
006-86   9-8-1986    city between Sixth and Seventh Streets be vacated,
                     abandoned and closed.
09-89    9-11-1989   Abandoning a portion of Third Street.
                     Closing, vacating and abandoning a street located
10-02-03 10-7-2002   alongside Block 2 of the original town plat and executing
                     a quit claim deed to John R. Hoberer and Jaime Sweeney for
                     street.
                     Closing, vacating and abandoning streets along Block 1 of
05-01-03 5-12-2003   the original town plat and executing quit claim deeds to
                     adjoining property owners.
                     Closing, vacating and abandoning a 20 ft. by 150 ft.
0305-1   5-16-2005   portion of Main Street (now known as Maple Street) in the
                     original town plat and authorizing execution of a
                     quitclaim deed to the adjoining property owner.
0206-1   2-13-2006   Closing, vacating and abandoning alleys located in Blocks
                     3, 11, 12, 18, 19, 20 and 24 of the original town plat.
                     Closing, vacating and abandoning a 15 ft. by 110 ft.
0506-2   5-8-2006    utility easement on Lot 30, Section 3, Nortman Estates and
                     executing a quit claim deed to the property owner, Tim
                     Fogle.
                     Vacating and abandoning a portion of a 20-foot utility
0706-1   7-17-2006   easement and granting a variance to the plat setback
                     requirement on Lot 22, Community Estates and executing a
                     quit claim deed to the property owner, Doug Drescher.
                     Closing, vacating and abandoning alleys that were platted
1107-1   11-12-2007  but unused located with Blocks 2, 4, 9, 10, 13, 23, 33 and
                     34 of the original town plat.
                     Closing, vacating and abandoning a 15 ft. by 110 ft.
0109-1   1-12-2009   utility easement situated adjacent and parallel to east
                     line of Lot 27 Section 3, Nortman Estates Addition.
                    
 
TABLE VIII: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date     Description
No.    Passed
                Fixing and determining the general service rate to be charged
-      - -      for sales of natural gas to residential and commercial
                consumers in the city (Enserch Corp.).
1      3-17-    Approving rate schedule for Texas Power and Light Co.
       1960
2      3-17-    Granting Texas Power and Light Company an electric light, heat
       1960     and power franchise.
3      3-24-    Granting Lone Star Gas Company a franchise to furnish and
       1960     supply gas to the general public.
-      6-30-    Repealing franchise agreement with Cooke County Rural
       1960     Electrification Association.
       7-22-    Agreement with Southwestern Bell Telephone Company to continue
8      1960     to erect and maintain its piles, wires, anchors, cables,
                manholes, conduits and other plant construction.
001A   8-6-1963 Imposing charges on Texas Power and Light Co.
024    2-2-1970 Determining rate charges for natural gas charged by Lone Star
                Gas Co.
04-77  4-4-1977 Determining rates for natural gas charged by Lone Star Gas Co.
03-81  3-2-1981 Amending Ord. 3; definitions.
04-81  4-6-1981 Suspending effective date of revision to rate schedules by
                Texas Power and Light.
09-81  9-14-    Approving rate schedule for Texas Power and Light Co.
       1981
09-82  9-13-    Fixing and determining rates for natural gas by Enserch Corp.
       1982
06-84  6-7-1984 Establishing a new main line extension rate.
03-85  1-7-1985 Granting Lone Star Gas Co. a 25 year franchise to furnish and
                supply gas to the general public.
-      2-4-1985 Granting Lone Star Gas Company enforcement of § 11 of Ord. 03-
                85.
       2-24-    Agreement with Southwestern Bell to do telecommunications
02-93  1993     business in the city and construct the necessary facilities to
                carry out that business.
07-96  7-25-    Granting cable franchise to North Texas Communications Co.
       1993
09-02- 9-9-2002 Amending franchise agreement for electricity with Oncor
01              Electric.
09-02- 9-9-2002 Amending franchise agreement for gas with TXU Gas.
02
1109-2 11-9-    Granting Oncor Electric Company LLC a franchise agreement.
       2009
0910-6 9-13-    Approving new rates for Atmos Energy.
       2010
0611-1 6-13-    Granting a gas franchise to Atmos Energy Corp.
       2011
0911-3 9-19-    Amending gas franchise between the city and Atmos Energy Corp.
       2011
0716-1 12-12-   Establishing a solid waste franchise with Progressive Waste
       2016     Solutions of Texas.
               
 
TABLE IX: CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving and authorizing execution and delivery of
0610-1   6-14-2010   contract for water supply services with the Greater Texoma
                     Utility Authority.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Texas Codes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO TEXAS CODES
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Title 25 Ch. 228     117.01
                     
 
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Title 25 Ch. 228     117.01
                     
 
AGRICULTURE CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
52.002               72.01
                     
 
CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Chapter 62           131.01
Article 102.017      34.15
Article 102.017(d)   34.15
Article 102.0172     34.30,
                     34.32
                     
 
FAMILY CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
71.004               50.13
                     
 
GOVERNMENT CODE
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References           Code Section
Title 8 Sub. G 852.004         36.10
Title 8 Sub. G 854.601—854.6036.10
Title 8 Sub. G 855.314         36.10
Title 8 Sub. G 855.408         36.10
Title 8 Sub. G 855.502         36.10
30.00014                       90.51
                               
 
 
HEALTH AND SAFETY CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Chapter 146          114.01
481.134              131.01
                     
 
HUMAN RESOURCES CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
51.002               50.13
                     
 
INSURANCE CODE
 
Statutory Refrences Code Section
544.251             131.01
                    
 
LOC. GOV’T CODE
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References Code Section
Chapter 53           10.01
Chapters 201—205   35.17—
                     35.19
Chapter 214          150.155
217.002              10.99
229.001              130.02
229.002              130.02
Chapter 241          155.01
Chapter 243          112.01
Chapter 283          98.04
43.028               50.60
54.001               10.99
54.004               112.01
215.075              112.01
                     
 
OCCUPATION CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Chapter 1201         151.03,
                     151.06
1202.253             150.095
Chapter 1702         90.57
                     
 
PENAL CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Chapter 21           112.05
Chapter 22           112.05
Chapter 25           112.05
Chapter 43           112.05
21.01                112.09
                     
 
TAX CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
11.253(a)(2)         33.01
321.210(a)           33.36
321.210(b)           33.36
                     
 
TRANSPORTATION CODE
Statutory References Code Section
Statutory References Code Section
                     70.01,
541.201              71.01,
                     Ch. 73 Sch. V,
                     Ch. 74 Sch. I
521.001(3)           72.06
521.021              72.06
547.104              72.01
547.703              72.01
601.051              72.02
Chapter 621          Ch. 73 Sch. III
623.071              70.02
                     
 
UTILITIES CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
Chapter 251          98.10,
                     98.14
                     
 
WATER CODE
 
Statutory References Code Section
11.039               53.10
13.002               51.32
16.315               152.001
                     
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO VIII
-        - -         150.080
04-93-01 - -         156.01
1        3-17-1960   TSO VIII
2        3-17-1960   TSO VIII
3        3-24-1960   TSO VIII
                     150.075 
5        4-22-1960   150.080,
                     150.999
                     110.01 
6        6-9-1960    110.08,
                     110.99
-        6-30-1960   TSO VIII
8        7-22-1960   TSO VIII
08-62    8-7-1962    94.02
                     51.01 
-        2- -1963    51.16,
                     51.99
001A     8-6-1963    TSO VIII
                     110.01 
12-64    12-1-1964   110.08,
                     110.99
                     150.075 
014      12-1-1964   150.080,
                     150.999
15       8-3-1965    130.02,
                     130.99
05-66    5-16-1966   150.040 
                     150.048
05-66-1  5-16-1966   150.096 
                     150.101
05-66-2  5-16-1966   150.081
05-66-3  5-16-1996   150.115 
                     150.117
016      5-16-1966   150.060 
                     150.062
06-66    6- -1966    154.01
03-68    3-9-1968    TSO V
05-68    3-9-1968    54.01
05-68    5-6-1968    TSO I
024      2-2-1970    TSO VIII
04-72    2-7-1972    150.060
11-72    11-6-1972   154.01
05-76    5-3-1976    TSO I
009-76   12-6-1976   97.01,
                     97.99
04-77    4-4-1977    TSO VIII
12-77    12-5-1977   TSO I
05-79    5-7-1979    154.01
-        - -1980     TSO V
                     51.01 
12-80    11-3-1980   51.16,
                     51.99
03-81    3-2-1981    TSO VIII
04-81    4-6-1981    TSO VIII
09-81    9-14-1981   TSO VIII
                     92.01,
81-103   11-2-1981   92.02,
                     92.99
02-83    7-5-1982    155.01
09-82    9-13-1982   TSO VIII
11-83-01 11-7-1983   Ch. 73 Sch. III
11-83-02 11-7-1983   Ch. 73 Sch. III
25       11-7-1983   Ch. 74 Sch. I
04-84    4-9-1984    TSO VII
06-84    6-7-1984    TSO VIII
                     96.01 
06-84    6-7-1984    96.09,
                     96.99
03-85    1-7-1985    TSO VIII
-        2-4-1985    TSO VIII
07-86    8-4-1986    30.03
006-86   9-8-1986    TSO VII
                     91.01 
01-87    3-2-1987    91.07,
                     91.99
                     33.35,
04-87    4-4-1987    35.36 
                     33.38
                     91.20 
02-88    4-4-1988    91.24,
                     91.99
02-89    4-4-1989    94.01,
                     94.99
09-89    9-11-1989   TSO VII
01-90    1-8-1990    51.17
11-3-90  12-7-1990   110.10,
                     110.99
7-92     7-6-1992    Ch. 73 Sch. II
02-93    2-24-1993   TSO VIII
04-93-02 4-13-1993   154.01
06-93    6-1-1993    150.075
07-96    7-25-1993   TSO VIII
09-93    9-7-1993    Ch. 74 Sch. I
4-94     4-19-1994   93.07
9-06-94  9-6-1994    54.01
8-95-1   8-15-1995   TSO I
9-95     9-5-1995    Ch. 73 Sch. V
                     112.01 
11-95    11-6-1995   112.19,
                     112.99
01-96    1-8-1996    Ch. 73 Sch. I
                     111.01,
                     111.02,
                     111.15 
04-97    4-7-1997    111.20,
                     111.35 
                     111.39,
                     111.99
06-97    6-2-1997    TSO I
02-99    2-11-1999   TSO I
06-99    6-14-1999   52.55,
                     52.99
                     53.01 
11-00    11-6-2000   53.12,
                     53.99
8-01     8-6-2001    Ch. 74 Sch. I
                     90.25 
10-01    10-1-2001   90.28,
                     90.99
09-02-01 9-9-2002    TSO VIII
09-02-02 9-9-2002    TSO VIII
09-02-03 9-9-2002    30.15
09-02-04 9-9-2002    31.01 
                     31.03
09-02-05 9-9-2002    111.16
10-02-02 10-7-2002   30.02
10-02-03 10-7-2002   TSO VII
03-01-03 3-3-2003    Ch. 74 Sch. I
04-01-03 4-14-2003   Ch. 73 Sch. I,
                     Ch. 73 Sch. II
04-02-03 5-12-2003   TSO I
05-01-03 5-12-2003   TSO VII
09031    9-8-2003    112.02,
                     112.99
                     91.01 
09032    9-8-2003    91.07,
                     91.99
0905-1   9-12-2003   Ch. 73 Sch. I
120302   12-8-2003   150.095
                     52.35 
120303   12-8-2003   52.42,
                     52.99
010401   1-12-2004   150.060
120301   3-8-2004    156.01
                     115.01 
704-1    7-12-2004   115.14,
                     115.99
0904-1   9-13-2004   35.01
1004-1   10-11-2004  156.01
                     150.155 
1104-1   11-8-2004   150.169,
                     150.999
1204-1   12-13-2004  35.15 
                     35.19
                     33.15 
1204-2   12-13-2004  33.23,
                     33.99
                     114.01 
0105-1   1-10-2005   114.03,
                     114.99,
                     156.01
                     93.01 
0105-2   1-10-2005   93.05,
                     93.99,
                     Ch. 93 App. A
0305-1   5-16-2005   TSO VII
0805-1   8-8-2005    130.01,
                     130.99
0805-2   8-8-2005    54.01
0805-3   8-8-2005    50.60,
                     50.99
                     52.01 
0805-4   8-8-2005    52.21,
                     52.99
0905-2   9-12-2005   54.01
0905-3   9-12-2005   150.005
0905-4   9-12-2005   TSO II
0905-5   9-12-2005   TSO III
1205-1   9-12-2005   150.005
1105-1   11-14-2005  156.01
1105-3   11-14-2005  TSO II
0206-1   2-13-2006   TSO VII
1105-2   2-13-2006   154.01
0406-1   4-10-2006   150.024
0406-2   4-10-2006   150.081
0406-3   4-10-2006   150.023
0406-4   4-10-2006   150.022
0406-5   4-10-2006   150.021
0406-6   4-10-2006   150.040,
                     150.999
0406-7   4-10-2006   34.15
0406-8   4-10-2006   34.30 
                     34.32
0406-9   4-10-2006   150.060
0506-1   5-8-2006    150.002
0506-2   5-8-2006    TSO VII
0506-3   5-23-2006   154.01
0706-1   7-17-2006   TSO VII
0906-1   9-11-2006   30.01
0906-2   9-11-2006   54.01
0906-3   9-11-2006   TSO II
0906-4   9-11-2006   TSO III
1006-1   10-9-2006   Ch. 73 Sch. V
1006-2   10-9-2006   Ch. 73 Sch. VI
1006-3   10-9-2006   Ch. 73 Sch. IV
0207-1   2-12-2007   150.004,
                     150.999
                     152.001 
                     152.004,
                     152.015,
                     152.030 
0307-1   3-12-2007   152.036,
                     152.050 
                     152.053,
                     152.065 
                     152.069,
                     152.999
0307-2   3-12-2007   150.130 
                     150.143
0607-1   6-1-2007    TSO I
                     71.15,
0707-1   8-13-2007   71.16,
                     71.99
0907-1   9-10-2007   156.01
0907-2   9-10-2007   150.005
0907-3   9-10-2007   54.01
0907-4   9-10-2007   TSO II
0907-5   9-10-2007   TSO III
0907-6   9-10-2007   TSO III
1007-1   10-8-2007   30.30
1107-1   11-12-2007  TSO VII
0208-1   2-11-2008   150.005
0408-1   4-14-2008   150.095,
                     150.999
                     151.01 
0408-3   4-14-2008   151.11,
                     151.99
                     90.01 
0408-2   5-19-2008   90.10,
                     90.99
0508-1   5-19-2008   156.01
0508-3   5-19-2008   150.005
0808-1   8-19-2008   54.01
0808-2   8-19-2008   TSO II
0808-3   8-19-2008   TSO III
0808-4   8-19-2008   TSO III
1008-1   10-13-2008  TSO II
1008-2   10-13-2008  TSO IV
1108-1   11-10-2008  Ch. 73 Sch. V
1108-2   11-10-2008  150.001
1208-1   12-15-2008  Ch. 73 Sch. V
1208-2   12-15-2008  154.01
0109-1   1-12-2009   TSO VII
0909-1   9-22-2009   TSO II
0909-2   9-22-2009   TSO III
0909-3   9-22-2009   TSO III
1009-1   10-12-2009  TSO II
1109-1   11-9-2009   TSO IV
1109-2   11-9-2009   TSO VIII
                     35.30 
1209-1   12-14-2009  35.37,
                     35.99
1209-2   12-14-2009  150.003
                     150.130,
0510-1   4-19-2010   150.132,
                     150.138,
                     150.999
0510-2   4-19-2010   156.01
0610-1   6-14-2010   TSO IX
0710-1   7-12-2010   TSO V
0810-1   8-9-2010    156.01
0910-1   9-13-2010   TSO II
0910-2   9-13-2010   54.01
0910-3   9-13-2010   TSO II
0910-4   9-13-2010   TSO III
0910-5   9-13-2010   TSO III
0910-6   9-13-2010   TSO VIII
                     50.01 
0910-7   9-27-2010   50.45,
                     50.99
0910-9   9-27-2010   52.22
                     51.30 
0211-2   2-21-2011   51.38,
                     51.99
0611-1   6-13-2011   TSO VIII
0811-1   8-8-2011    34.01
0911-1   9-19-2011   TSO II
0911-2   9-19-2011   TSO III
0911-3   9-19-2011   TSO VIII
1011-2   10-10-2011  TSO II
1011-3   11-14-2011  33.01
1211-1   12-12-2011  154.01
1211-2   12-12-2011  156.01
1211-3   12-12-2011  156.01
1211-4   12-20-2011  54.01
                     153.01,
1111-1   1-23-2012   153.02,
                     153.99
0212-1   2-13-2012   TSO I
0212-2   2-13-2012   50.41,
                     50.99
0512-1   5-14-2012   TSO I
0612-2   6-18-2012   156.01
                     113.01 
0612-1   7-16-2012   113.05,
                     113.99
0912-1   9-10-2012   TSO II
0912-2   9-10-2012   TSO III
0912-3   9-10-2012   TSO III
0912-4   9-10-2012   54.01
1012-2   10-8-2012   150.020,
                     150.999
1212-1   12-10-2012  TSO I
0113-1   1-14-2013   Ch. 73 Sch. I
0713-1   7-8-2013    TSO VI
0913-1   9-10-2013   TSO II
0913-2   9-10-2013   TSO III
0913-3   9-10-2013   TSO III
0913-4   9-10-2013   54.01
0913-5   9-10-2013   Ch. 73 Sch. I
1013-1   10-14-2013  Ch. 73 Sch. I
1113-1   11-11-2013  52.19
0514-1   5-12-2014   52.37
0914-1   9-8-2014    TSO II
0914-2   9-8-2014    TSO III
0914-3   9-8-2014    TSO III
0914-4   9-8-2014    54.01
1014-1   10-13-2014  36.01 
                     36.09
1014-2   10-28-2014  TSO VI
1114-2   11-10-2014  31.15 
                     31.21
0115-1   1-12-2015   54.01
0315-2   3-9-2015    156.01
                     110.01 
0615-1   6-22-2015   110.08,
                     110.99
0715-1   7-13-2015   50.11,
                     50.99
0715-2   7-27-2015   32.01,
                     32.02
0915-1   9-21-2015   TSO II,
                     TSO III
0915-2   9-21-2015   TSO III
0915-3   9-21-2015   TSO III
0716-2   7-18-2016   50.13
0916-4   9-26-2016   54.01
                     95.01,
0816-1   9-27-2016   95.02,
                     95.99
0916-1   9-27-2016   TSO II,
                     TSO III
0916-2   9-27-2016   TSO III
0916-3   9-27-2016   TSO III
0716-1   12-12-2016  TSO VIII
0317-1   3-13-2017   TSO I
0317-2   3-13-2017   TSO I
0617-1   5-22-2017   150.040,
                     150.999
0617-1   6-5-2017    156.01
0917-4   9-11-2017   54.01
1017-1   10-10-2017  TSO II
1017-3   10-10-2017  70.01,
                     70.99
1017-4   10-10-2017  71.01,
                     71.99
1017-5   10-10-2017  Ch. 74 Sch. I
1117-2   12-11-2017  TSO VI
0718-1   - -2018     35.31,
                     35.99
0118-1   1-15-2018   Ch. 73 Sch. I
0118-2   1-15-2018   50.46
0318-2   3-18-2018   30.31
0318-3   3-18-2018   30.45
0318-4   3-18-2018   50.47
0318-1   3-19-2018   30.30
0518-1   5-14-2018   93.06
0618-1   6-11-2018   30.31
0618-2   6-11-2018   30.30
0818-1   8-13-2018   Ch. 73 Sch. II
                     92.15 
0818-3   8-13-2018   92.19,
                     92.99
0818-4   8-13-2018   33.35 
                     33.39
0818-5   8-13-2018   Ch. 74 Sch. I
0818-6   8-13-2018   70.02,
                     70.99
0918-3   9-10-2018   TSO III
0918-4   9-10-2018   54.01
                     116.01,
1018-1   11-12-2018  116.02,
                     116.99
1118-1   11-12-2018  54.01,
                     150.005
1118-2   10-12-2018  117.01 -
                     117.08
1118-3   1-14-2019   36.10
0119-1   1-14-2019   Adopting Ordinance
1218-1   1-14-2019   156.01
                     98.01 -
1018-2   2-11-2019   98.20,
                     98.99
0219-1   3-11-2019   156.01
0719-1   7-8-2019    150.005
0919-1   9-9-2019    TSO II
0919-3   9-9-2019    TSO III
0919-4   9-9-2019    54.01,
                     150.005
1019-2   10-14-2019  35.30
                     50.17,
1119-1   11-11-2019  50.18,
                     50.48,
                     50.49
                     72.01 -
0120-2   2-10-2020   72.10,
                     72.99
0320-03  3-9-2020    TSO II
                     90.01,
                     90.45 -
0620-1   6-15-2020   90.57,
                     90.65 -
                     90.68
0920-1   9-1-2020    TSO II
0920-3   9-1-2020    TSO III
1020-1   10-6-2020   131.01 -
                     131.06
1120-1   11-3-2020   54.01,
                     150.005
1120-2   11-3-2020   50.05,
                     50.48
0621-01  6-1-2021    54.01,
                     150.005
0621-2   6-1-2021    TSO II
0721-1   7-6-2021    54.01,
                     150.005
0921-1   9-14-2021   TSO II
0921-2   9-14-2021   TSO III
0921-3   9-14-2021   TSO II
                     90.11,
0921-4   9-14-2021   91.40,
                     91.41
0921-5   9-14-2021   Ch. 74, Schs. I, II
1221-1   11-14-2021  54.01,
                     150.005
                     150.021 -
                     150.026,
                     150.040,
1221-2   11-14-2021  150.060,
                     150.081,
                     150.095,
                     150.101
0222-1   2-8-2022    54.01,
                     150.005
0422-1   5-10-2022   156.01
0522-1   5-10-2022   70.02
0922-1   9-13-2022   TSO II
0922-2   9-13-2022   TSO III
0922-3   9-13-2022   TSO II
1222-1   1-10-2023   32.10 -
                     32.17
0323-2   3-21-2023   TSO I
0723-1   7-27-2023   54.01,
                     150.005
0923-1   9-12-2023   TSO II
0923-2   9-12-2023   TSO III
0923-3   9-12-2023   TSO II
1023-1   10-10-2023  54.01,
                     150.005
                    
 
 
