 City of Longview, Texas
Code of Ordinances
This code is current through Ordinances 4549 passed 03.27.25
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: 800.445.5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Charter
Article I. Incorporation - Form of Government - Powers
Sec.
1.01.   Incorporation.
Sec.
1.02.   Form of government.
Sec.
1.03.   Powers of the city.
Sec.
1.04.   City limits; extension of boundaries.
Sec.
1.05.   Public improvements.
Article II. The City Council
Sec.
2.01.   Composition of Council.
Sec.
2.02.   Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem.
Sec.
2.03.   Council qualifications.
Sec.
2.04.   Forfeiture of office.
Sec.
2.05.   Council quorum.
Sec.
2.06.   Council rules.
Sec.
2.07.   Vacancies in the City Council; how filled.
Sec.
2.08.   Prohibiting holding or running for other office.
Sec.
2.09.   City Council may summon witnesses, etc.
Sec.
2.10.   No interference by Council.
Sec.
2.11.   Investigations.
Sec.
2.12.   Regular meetings.
Sec.
2.13.   Special meetings.
Sec.
2.14.   Open meetings.
Sec.
2-14 [2-151].   Financial loss by elected city officials.
Article III. Municipal Elections
Sec.
3.01.   Holding of municipal elections.
Sec.
3.02.   Qualifications of voters.
Sec.
3.03.   General election.
Sec.
3.04.   Election of Council members.
Sec.
3.05.   District limits.
Sec.
3.06.   Candidate's residence.
Sec.
3.07.   Nomination.
Sec.
3.08.   Designation of official ballot.
Sec.
3.09.   Canvass of election.
Sec.
3.10.   Candidates elected.
Sec.
3.11.   Reserved.
Article IV. Ordinances and Resolutions
Sec.
4.01.   Council action.
Sec.
4.02.   Style of ordinances and resolutions.
Sec.
4.03.   Passage.
Sec.
4.04.   Voting.
Sec.
4.05.   Effective date.
Sec.
4.06.   Enrollment.
Sec.
4.07.   Publication of ordinances.
Sec.
4.08.   Codification of ordinances.
Sec.
4.09.   How plead.
Sec.
4.10.   Approval of Mayor not necessary.
Article V. The City Manager
Sec.
5.01.   Appointment; qualifications; compensation.
Sec.
5.02.   Removal.
Sec.
5.03.   Powers and duties of the City Manager.
Article VI. City Secretary
Sec.
6.01.   Appointment; removal; compensation.
Sec.
6.02.   Duties of the City Secretary.
Article VII. Administrative Departments
Sec.
7.01.   General provisions.
Sec.
7.02.   Personnel rules.
Sec.
7.03.   City Attorney.
Sec.
7.04.   Independent audit.
Article VIII. Municipal Court
Sec.
8.01.   Municipal court.
Sec.
8.02.   Judge of the municipal court.
Sec.
8.03.   Clerk of the municipal court.
Sec.
8.04.   Authority, powers and procedures of municipal court.
Article IX. Financial Procedures
Sec.
9.01.   Fiscal year.
Sec.
9.02.   Submission of budget and budget message.
Sec.
9.03.   Budget message.
Sec.
9.04.   Preparation and submission of budget.
Sec.
9.05.   Budget a public record.
Sec.
9.06.   Public hearing on budget.
Sec.
9.07.   Proceeding on adoption of budget.
Sec.
9.08.   Budget, appropriation and amount to be raised by taxation.
Sec.
9.09.   Contingent appropriation.
Sec.
9.10.   Amending the budget.
Sec.
9.11.   Certification; copies made available.
Sec.
9.12.   Defect shall not invalidate the tax levy.
Sec.
9.13.   Finance.
Sec.
9.14.   Accounting supervision and control.
Sec.
9.15.   Lapse of appropriations.
Sec.
9.16.   Fees shall be paid to City of Longview.
Sec.
9.17.   Sale of city property.
Sec.
9.18.   Purchase procedure.
Sec.
9.19.   Disbursement of funds.
Sec.
9.20.   Borrowing in anticipation of property taxes.
Sec.
9.21.   Sale of notes; report of sale.
Sec.
9.22.   Surety bonds.
Article X. Incurring Indebtedness
Sec.
10.01.   Powers to issue.
Sec.
10.02.   Sale of bonds.
Sec.
10.03.   Interest and sinking funds.
Sec.
10.04.   Revenue bonds.
Sec.
10.05.   Execution and registration of bonds.
Sec.
10.06.   Bond register.
Article XI. Tax Administration
Sec.
11.01.   Reserved.
Sec.
11.02.   Power to tax; franchise taxes; occupation taxes.
Sec.
11.03.   Property subject to tax; method of assessment.
Sec.
11.04.   Reserved.
Sec.
11.05.   Reserved.
Sec.
11.06.   Reserved.
Sec.
11.07.   Reserved.
Sec.
11.08.   Taxes; when due and payable.
Sec.
11.09.   Tax liens.
Sec.
11.10.   Arrears of taxes offset to debt against city.
Sec.
11.11.   Additional power of Council.
Article XII. Franchises and Public Utilities
Sec.
12.01.   Powers of the city.
Sec.
12.02.   Franchises; power of Council.
Sec.
12.03.   Franchise value not to be allowed.
Sec.
12.04.   Right of regulations.
Sec.
12.05.   Consent of property owners.
Sec.
12.06.   Extensions.
Sec.
12.07.   Temporary permits.
Sec.
12.08.   Other conditions.
Sec.
12.09.   Franchise records.
Sec.
12.10.   Regulation of rates.
Article XIII. Boards and Commissions
Sec.
13.01.   Boards and commissions.
Article XIV. Initiative, Referendum and Recall
Sec.
14.01.   Power of initiative.
Sec.
14.02.   Power of referendum.
Sec.
14.03.   Frequency of election.
Sec.
14.04.   Form of petition.
Sec.
14.05.   Filing examination and certifications.
Sec.
14.06.   Council consideration and submission to voters.
Sec.
14.07.   Referendum petitions; suspension of effect of ordinances.
Sec.
14.08.   Results of referendum elections.
Sec.
14.09.   Power of recall.
Sec.
14.10.   Public hearing to be held.
Sec.
14.11.   Recall election.
Sec.
14.12.   Results of recall election.
Article XV. General Provisions
Sec.
15.01.   Personal financial interests.
Sec.
15.02.   Official oath.
Sec.
15.03.   Notice of claim.
Sec.
15.04.   Assignment, execution and garnishment.
Sec.
15.05.   Security or bond not required.
Sec.
15.06.   Nepotism.
Sec.
15.07.   Fire limits.
Sec.
15.08.   When provisions take effect.
Sec.
15.09.   Ordinances, rules and regulations validated.
Sec.
15.10.   Separability clause.
Sec.
15.11.   Charter amendment.
Sec.
15.12.   Officers and employees.
Sec.
15.13.   Departments, offices and agencies.
Sec.
15.14.   Pending matters.
Sec.
15.15.   Judicial notice.
Sec.
15.16.   Gender.
Sec.
15.17.   Reserved.
Sec.
15.18.   Reserved.
Sec.
15.19.   Charter to become effective on January 1, 1979.
Article I.
Incorporation - Form of Government - Powers
Section 1.01. Incorporation.
The inhabitants of the City of Longview, within the corporate limits as now
established or as hereafter established in the manner provided by law, shall
continue to be a municipal body politic and corporate in perpetuity under the
name of the "City of Longview."
Section 1.02. Form of government.
The municipal government provided by this Charter shall be known as the
"Council-Manager" form of government. Pursuant to its provisions and subject
only to the limitations imposed by the state constitution and by this Charter
all powers of the city shall be vested in an elective City Council which shall
enact local legislation, adopt budgets, determine policies, and appoint the
City Manager, who shall execute the laws and administer the government of the
city.
Section 1.03. Powers of the city.
The city shall have all powers possible for a city to have under the
constitution and laws of this state, as fully and completely as though they
were specifically enumerated in this Charter. All such powers, whether
expressed or implied, shall be exercised and enforced in the manner prescribed
by this Charter, and, when not prescribed herein, in such manner as may be
provided by ordinance or resolution of the Council of the City of Longview.
The enumeration of particular powers in this Charter shall not be held or
deemed to be exclusive, but in addition to the powers enumerated herein,
implied thereby or appropriate to the exercise thereof, the city may have and
shall exercise all other powers which, under the constitution of the State of
Texas, it would be competent for the Charter specifically to enumerate. The
City of Longview shall have and exercise all the powers conferred upon cities
by what is known as the home rule amendment to the Constitution of the State of
Texas and the enabling act and all other laws passed or which may hereafter be
passed by the legislature in relation to such matters.
The City of Longview may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its
functions, and may participate in the financing thereof, jointly or in
cooperation, by contract or otherwise with the government of Texas or any
agency thereof, or with the federal government or any agency thereof, or with
the government of any county, city, or political subdivision to accomplish any
lawful municipal purpose.
Section 1.04. City limits; extension of boundaries.
(a)   The boundaries of the City of Longview shall be the same as have
heretofore been established, as of this date, which boundaries are more fully
set out on an official map recorded in the city to be kept in the office of the
City Secretary and City Engineer, and here referred to for a more complete
description.
(b)   The boundaries may be altered by extension through annexation or
contraction through disannexation by the procedures set forth in this Charter
and Chapter 43 of the Texas Local Government Code, as amended, or as otherwise
specified by State law.
(c)   Territory adjacent to the city may be annexed by ordinance with or
without the consent of the owners or inhabitants thereof, subject to such
procedural rules as set forth in Chapter 43 of the Texas Local Government Code,
as amended, or as otherwise specified by State law.
(d)   Upon presentation of a petition in writing signed by a majority of
qualified voters of adjacent territory, the City Council after hearing
arguments for and against such action, may by ordinance annex such territory
into the city. Hearing on such petition shall take place not less than five (5)
nor more than thirty (30) days after the date of filing. At any time within
ninety (90) days after the public hearing, an ordinance may be introduced
providing for the annexation of the territory described in such petition.
(e)   Territory lying within the boundary limits of the city and adjacent to
the outer limits may be disannexed from the city upon presentation to the City
Council of a petition in writing signed by a majority of the qualified voters
within the territory. Sparsely inhabited territory containing less than one
hundred (100) residents may be disannexed by the City Council, when the City
Council determines that such disannexation is for the best interests of the
city. The City Council, after hearing the arguments for and against such
proposed disannexation, may grant or deny the request; refunds as to taxes and
fees shall be in accordance with Chapter 43 of the Texas Local Government Code,
as amended, or as otherwise specified by state law.
Section 1.05. Public improvements.
(a)   Streets. The City of Longview shall have exclusive dominion, control and
jurisdiction in, upon, and over and under public streets, avenues, alleys and
highways of the city and may provide for the improvement thereof by paving,
repaving, raising, draining or otherwise in accordance with the provisions of
the general laws of the State of Texas. Such exclusive dominion, control and
jurisdiction in, upon, over and under the public streets avenues, alleys and
highways of the City of Longview shall also include, but not be limited to, the
right to regulate, locate, relocate, remove, or prohibit the location of, all
utility pipes, lines, wires or other property,
(b)   Other improvements. The City of Longview shall have the power to provide
for the improvement of drainage facilities and to extend its water and sewer
systems and assess a part of the cost of such improvements against abutting
property owners as in the case for street improvements according to the
procedures set forth in the general laws of the State of Texas, and fix a lien
to secure the cost of such assessments as therein provided and issue assignable
certificates.
Article II.
The City Council
Section 2.01. Composition of Council.
Except as otherwise provided by the Charter of the city, all powers conferred
on the city shall be exercised by a City Council to be composed of a Mayor and
six (6) members, nominated and elected in the manner provided in Article III of
this Charter, unless otherwise prescribed by law. They shall each be elected
for a term of three (3) years. The Council members so elected shall serve until
their respective successors shall have been elected and shall have qualified.
Beginning with the election to be conducted on the first Saturday in May, 2001,
neither the Mayor nor any member of the City Council elected from and after
said date shall be elected for more than three (3) full consecutive terms of
three (3) years each in the same position on the City Council as a
Councilperson.
Section 2.02. Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem.
The Mayor shall be the official head of the city government. He shall be the
chairman and preside at all meetings of the Council. The Mayor may vote on
every proposition before the Council but shall have no power to veto. He shall
perform duties consistent with this Charter as may be imposed upon him by the
Council.
The Mayor Pro Tem may be elected by the City Council from its membership. The
Mayor Pro Tem shall act as Mayor in the case of the absence or inability of the
Mayor to perform the duties of office and in this capacity shall be vested with
all of the powers conferred upon the Mayor.
Section 2.03. Council qualifications.
The Mayor and each member of the City Council shall have the following
qualifications:
   (a)   be at least twenty-one (21) years of age;
   (b)   have resided within the city and the territory from which the office
is elected for at least twelve (12) months immediately preceding election day;
   (c)   meet all other eligibility requirements of the Texas Election Code;
and
   (d)   have paid a filing fee of one hundred dollars ($100) or have submitted
a petition for candidacy in lieu of a filing fee and said petition must be
signed by not less than the greater of (i) twenty-five (25) qualified voters of
the territory from which the office is elected or (ii) a number of qualified
voters of the territory from which the office is elected equal to one-half of
one percent of the total received in said territory by all candidates for Mayor
in the most recent Mayoral general election.
Section 2.04. Forfeiture of office.
The Mayor or any Councilman shall forfeit his office if he:
   (a)   lacks at any time during his term of office any qualification for the
office prescribed by this Charter or by law;
   (b)   violates any express prohibition of this Charter;
   (c)   is finally convicted of a felony from which he has not been pardoned
or otherwise released from the legal disability; or
   (d)   fails to attend three (3) consecutive regular Council meetings or six
(6) Council meetings in any calendar year without being excused by the Council.
Section 2.05. Council quorum.
A quorum shall consist of four (4) members, which may include the mayor, where
the number of councilmen, including the mayor, due to vacancies, is reduced to
less than five (5), in which event a quorum shall consist of all the remaining
councilmen; but a less number than a quorum may adjourn from time to time and
compel the attendance of absent members in such manner and under such penalties
as may be prescribed by ordinance.
Section 2.06. Council rules.
The Council shall determine its own rules of procedures, and may punish its
members for misconduct, and may compel the attendance of absent members.
Section 2.07. Vacancies in the City Council; how filled.
(a)   If a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor or on the City Council on or
before one hundred twenty (120) days before a regular election for City
Council, the vacancy shall be filled at a special election for that purpose. At
its next regular meeting after the occurrence of the vacancy, the City Council
shall call for a special election to be held on a date that conforms with the
uniform election dates set out in the Texas Election Code, as amended, if a
uniform election date occurs within the one hundred and twenty (120) day period
for the special election. If no such uniform election date is available, then
the date for the special election shall be set within one hundred twenty (120)
days from the date the vacancy occurred; and except as otherwise provided in
this Charter such special election laws as set out in the Texas Election Code,
as amended, shall be applicable to, and control in all such elections.
(b)   A person elected either at a special election or a regular election to
fill a vacancy in the office of Mayor or on the City Council shall serve only
the unexpired term of the Mayor or City Council member whose place has been
declared vacant, as the case may be.
(c)   If a candidate duly elected either to the office of Mayor or to the City
Council at the general election fails to take the oath of office on or before
ten (10) days after the official canvass of the election, then his place shall
be considered a vacancy and filled as herein provided for other vacancies. In
the event such a candidate, elected either to the office of Mayor or to the
City Council at a special election, fails to take the oath of office on or
before ten (10) days after the official canvass of the election, then his place
shall be considered a vacancy and filled as herein provided for other
vacancies.
Section 2.08. Prohibiting holding or running for other office.
(a)   No person elected to the office of Mayor or to the City Council shall,
during the term for which he was elected, be appointed to any office or
position of emolument in the service of the city.
(b)   The Council or any member of the City Council shall forfeit his place on
the Council, as required by Article 11, Section 11 of the Texas Constitution,
if he becomes a candidate for nomination or election to any public office other
than a place on the City Council or if he becomes a candidate for election to
any different place on the City Council which requires him to take office prior
to the end of his elective term.
(c)   The Mayor or any member of the City Council affected by subsection (b)
shall carryover or holdover in his service in the position as permitted by
Article 16, Section 17 of the Texas Constitution.
Section 2.09. City Council may summon witnesses, etc.
The City Council shall have power to summon and compel the attendance of
witnesses and the production of books and papers before it whenever it may be
necessary for the more effective discharge of its duties, and shall have the
power to punish for contempt before it with the same fines and penalties as the
County Judge may punish for contempt before the County Court. All process shall
be signed by the Mayor and attested by the City Secretary and shall be served
by the Chief of Police or any police officer of the City.
The City Secretary shall have authority to administer oaths in any matter
pertaining to municipal affairs.
Section 2.10. No interference by Council.
Subject to the Council's authority to approve all appointments of
administrative officers or directors of departments of the city under Section
5.03(a) of this Charter, neither the Council nor any of its members shall
dictate the appointment by the City Manager of any person to city offices or
employment. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members
shall deal with that part of the administrative service for which the City
Manager is responsible solely through such Manager, and neither the Council nor
any member thereof shall give orders to any of the subordinates of the City
Manager in said departments, either publicly or privately.
Section 2.11. Investigations.
The Council, the City Manager or any person or committee authorized by either
or both of them shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department
or office of the city; to make investigations as to city affairs, and for that
purpose may subpoena witnesses, request the administration of oaths by the City
Secretary for purposes necessary in regards to this section, and compel the
production of books, papers and other evidence material to said inquiry. The
Council may provide by ordinance penalties for contempt in refusing to obey any
such subpoenas or failure to produce books, papers and other evidence, and
shall have the power to punish any such contempt in the manner provided by
ordinance.
Section 2.12. Regular meetings.
On the day the members of the City Council take office, they shall meet at the
building designated as the official city hall and thereafter all regular
meetings of the City Council shall be held in the City Council chamber in such
building at such times as may be prescribed by ordinance or resolution; but not
less than one regular meeting shall be held each month unless postponed or
cancelled for valid reasons, to be recorded in the minutes.
Section 2.13. Special meetings.
Special meetings shall be called by the City Secretary upon the written request
of the mayor, City Manager or three (3) members of the Council. All councilmen
shall be given notice of such meeting at least twelve (12) hours prior thereto
whenever practicable and therein shall be stated the subject to be considered
at the special meeting and such may provide for the taking up of any other
business provided at such meeting.
Section 2.14. Open meetings.
All official meetings, including all regular and special meetings, of the
Council, and all boards, commissions and committees thereof shall be open to
the public as provided by the Texas Open Meetings Act as amended, or as
otherwise specified by state law. The City Council shall provide for reasonable
opportunity for citizens to be heard at all open meetings concerning any
subject considered thereat under such rules as the Council may provide.
Section 2-14 [2-151]. Financial loss by elected city officials.
Duly elected city officials acting in their official capacity shall be
protected by the city from personal financial loss resulting from Council
decisions made while in official sessions as a result of law suits filed
pertaining to such decisions.
Article III.
Municipal Elections
Section 3.01. Holding of municipal elections.
All municipal elections shall be held under the provisions of this Charter
unless the laws of the State of Texas applicable to city elections require
otherwise.
Section 3.02. Qualifications of voters.
All residents of the City of Longview who shall have qualified to vote in
accordance with the provisions of the Texas Election Code shall have the right
to vote in all city elections.
Section 3.03. General election.
No primary election shall be held in the selection of nominees to the City
Council unless specifically required by state law. General elections for the
purpose of electing members of the City Council shall be held on the first
Saturday in May of each year, or as otherwise may be prescribed by the Texas
Election Code, as amended.
Section 3.04. Election of Council members.
All qualified voters of the city shall be entitled to vote for the candidate
for mayor and for one candidate from District Numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6,
corresponding to the district of which the voter is a resident.
Section 3.05. District limits.
The city shall be divided into six (6) districts, known as Districts 1, 2, 3,
4, 5 and 6. The City Council shall, as often as deemed reasonable, determine as
nearly as practicable the population of the respective districts and shall, by
ordinance, revise the boundaries of any or all of said districts to maintain a
substantial equality of population in each. Within sixty (60) days after the
adoption of this Charter, the City Council shall by ordinance designate the
original district limits.
Section 3.06. Candidate's residence.
(a)   No person shall be eligible as a candidate for member of Council District
Numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6, unless he is at the time a bona fide resident of
District 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6, and has resided therein for a period of at least
twelve (12) months immediately preceding election day. Any Council candidate
residing in an area annexed to the city for less than twelve (12) months is
eligible if the candidate resided in the area continuously for twelve (12)
months immediately preceding election day, including time prior to annexation,
and the area of residency is included in the District where the candidate seeks
election as prescribed by the Texas Election Code as amended. He shall
continuously reside in said district during his term of office. The candidate
for Mayor may be a resident of any portion of the city, shall have resided in
the city for a period of twelve (12) months immediately preceding election day,
and shall continuously reside within the city during his term of office. Any
Mayoral candidate residing in an area annexed to the city for less than twelve
(12) months is eligible if the candidate resided in the area continuously for
twelve (12) months immediately preceding election day, including time prior to
the annexation, as prescribed by the Texas Election Code, as amended.
(b)   If the district in which a person will have resided for at least twelve
(12) months immediately preceding election day will change because of a
district boundary, the person is eligible to become a candidate:
   (1)   for the new district assigned to his residence; or
   (2)   for the previous district of his residence if he moves his residence
within the revised boundaries of that district prior to becoming a candidate
for election.
Section 3.07. Nomination.
A person desiring to become a candidate for Mayor or for any place on the City
Council shall be entitled to have his name placed on the official ballot if he
files with the City Secretary, not less than forty-five (45) days nor more than
seventy-five (75) days prior to the election, or as otherwise may be prescribed
by the Texas Election Code, as amended, a sworn application verifying his
qualifications as provided in Section 2.03 of this Charter and stating that he
is a candidate for Mayor or the district number for which he is running, as the
case may be.
Section 3.08. Designation of official ballot.
The Mayor shall be designated on the official ballot as "Mayor."
The districts on the official ballot shall be designated as "Member of Council,
District No. ________," designating the district numbers for which the voters
in each district are eligible to vote, such to be in numerical order, and the
candidate's name shall appear in the district for which he filed his
application. The City Secretary shall make up the official ballot from the
names so presented to him in the manner hereinabove set out. The order in which
the names of the candidates for each district shall appear on the ballot shall
be determined by lot in a drawing held under the supervision of the City
Secretary.
Section 3.09. Canvass of election.
Not earlier than the third day or later than the sixth day following either a
general or special election, or as otherwise may be prescribed by the Texas
Election Code, as amended, the City Council shall convene in a meeting of the
Council Chambers and canvass and certify the results of such election.
Section 3.10. Candidates elected.
A candidate in said election receiving a majority of the votes cast for the
position of mayor and for the position of councilman for the district for which
he is a candidate, as the case may be, shall be declared elected. If none of
the candidates for such position receives a majority vote, then none of the
candidates for that office shall be elected and a run-off election shall be
held among the two (2) candidates who receive the greatest number of votes for
such position. In the event of a run-off, the City Council shall immediately
order a run-off election, which shall be held not less than twenty (20) nor
more than thirty (30) days after the canvass of the election in which a run-off
is required. Notice of such run-off election shall be given and the election
shall be held in the same manner as the general or special election in which
the run-off occurred. At such election, only the names of the two (2)
candidates who received the greatest number of votes for such position shall be
printed on the ballot and any write-in votes cast for any other person shall be
void and shall not be counted for any purpose.
Section 3.11. Reserved.
Article IV.
Ordinances and Resolutions
Section 4.01. Council action.
The City Council shall evidence its official actions by written ordinances,
resolutions or oral motion. The use of one method or the other shall not affect
the validity of the action, except in those instances where one or the other is
required by state law or this Charter.
Section 4.02. Style of ordinances and resolutions.
The style of all ordinances shall be: "Be It Ordained By The City Council Of
The City Of Longview," and the style of all resolutions shall be: "Be It
Resolved By The City Council Of The City Of Longview." In each case words of
like import may be used, but such caption may be omitted when said ordinances
are published in book form, or are revised and digested under the order of the
Council.
Section 4.03. Passage.
All ordinances and resolutions of the City Council, unless otherwise provided
by state law, this Charter, or the ordinance itself, shall be final on the
passage or adoption by the required majority pursuant to one motion duly made,
seconded and passed. Where the state law or this Charter provides for a
different procedure before the action of the Council may become final, then in
that event, the Council shall follow the procedure required.
Section 4.04. Voting.
The vote upon the passage of any ordinance, resolution or motion shall be taken
by voice vote unless otherwise requested by a member of the City Council, in
which case a roll call vote shall be taken. The results of all voting shall be
entered upon the minutes of the proceedings of the Council. Every ordinance,
resolution, or motion shall require on final passage the affirmative vote of a
majority of the members present unless more is required by state law or this
Charter.
Section 4.05. Effective date.
All ordinances and resolutions passed by the City Council shall become
effective immediately from and after final publication, except in the following
instances:
   (a)   where the state law or other provisions of this Charter provide
otherwise, in which case the effective date shall be the earliest time therein
prescribed.
   (b)   where the ordinance or resolution prescribes a different effective
date.
   (c)   where an ordinance or resolution is adopted under the initiative and
referendum provisions of this Charter, in which case the effective date thereof
shall be immediately after the canvass of the election.
Section 4.06. Enrollment.
Each ordinance, resolution and motion passed by the City Council shall be
enrolled by the City Secretary within five (5) days after its passage, or as
soon thereafter as practicable. It shall then be carefully compared with the
original and all amendments, if any, by the City Attorney. If errors exist
therein, they shall be corrected.
Section 4.07. Publication of ordinances.
The descriptive caption or title of each ordinance stating in summary the
purpose of the ordinance and the penalty for violation thereof shall be
published at least once in the official newspaper of the city, unless otherwise
provided by state law or this Charter, in which event the specific provisions
shall be followed.
Section 4.08. Codification of ordinances.
The City Council shall have power to cause the ordinances of the city to be
printed, in Code form, and shall have the same arranged and digested as often
as the Council may deem advisable; however, failure to print the ordinances as
herein provided shall not affect the validity of the same.
Section 4.09. How plead.
In all judicial proceedings, it shall be sufficient to plead any ordinance by
caption, or by the number of sections thereof wanted, and it shall not be
necessary to plead the entire ordinance or section. All ordinances of the city,
when printed and published and bearing on the title page thereof "Ordained and
Published by the City Council of the City of Longview," or words of like
import, shall be prima facie evidence of their authenticity and shall be
admitted and received in all the courts and places without further proof.
Section 4.10. Approval of mayor not necessary.
The approval or signature of the mayor shall not be necessary to make an
ordinance or resolution valid.
Article V.
The City Manager
Section 5.01. Appointment; qualifications; compensation.
The Council shall appoint a City Manager for an indefinite term and fix his
compensation. The Manager shall be appointed solely on the basis of his
executive and administrative qualifications. He need not be a resident of the
city or state at the time of his appointment but shall reside within the City
of Longview while in office.
Section 5.02. Removal.
The Council may remove the Manager from office in accordance with the following
procedures:
   (a)   The Council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of all its
members a preliminary resolution which must state the reasons for removal and
may suspend the Manager from duty for a period not to exceed forty-five (45)
days. A copy of the resolution shall be delivered promptly to the Manager.
   (b)   Within five (5) days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to
the Manager, he may file with the Council a written request for a public
hearing. This hearing shall be held at a Council meeting not earlier than
fifteen (15) days nor later than thirty (30) days after the request is filed.
The Manager may file with the Council a written reply not later than five (5)
days before the hearing.
   (c)   The Council may adopt a final resolution of removal, which may be made
effective immediately, by affirmative vote of a majority of all its members at
any time after five (5) days from the date when a copy of the preliminary
resolution was delivered to the Manager, if he has not requested a public
hearing, or at any time after the public hearing if he has requested one.
The Manager shall continue to receive his salary until the effective date of a
final resolution of removal. The action of the Council in suspending or
removing the Manager shall be final and not subject to review by any court or
agency.
Section 5.03. Powers and duties of the City Manager.
The City Manager shall be the chief executive and administrative officer of the
city. He shall be responsible to the Council for the administration of all city
affairs placed in his charge by or under this Charter. He shall have the
following powers and duties:
   (a)   He shall, with approval of the Council, appoint the administrative
officers or directors of the city's departments which are provided for by or
under this Charter and shall make all appointments of lesser positions in the
city's service on recommendations of the administrative officer or director of
the department affected. When he deems it necessary for the good of the city,
he may suspend or remove any city employee provided, however, that no
administrative officer as head of a department may be suspended or removed
without the consent of the Council.
   (b)   He shall direct and supervise the administration of all departments,
offices and agencies of the city, except as otherwise provided by this Charter
or by statute.
   (c)   He shall attend all Council meetings and shall have the right to take
part in discussion but may not vote.
   (d)   He shall see that all laws, provisions of this Charter and acts of the
Council, subject to enforcement by him or by officers subject to his direction
and supervision, are faithfully executed.
   (e)   He shall prepare and submit the annual budget and capital program to
the Council.
   (f)   He shall be responsible for the submission to the Council and made
available to the public a complete report on the finances and administrative
activities of the city as of the end of each fiscal year.
   (g)   He shall make such other reports as the Council may require concerning
the operations of city departments, offices and agencies subject to his
direction and supervision.
   (h)   He shall keep the Council fully advised as to the financial condition
and future needs of the city and make such recommendations to the Council
concerning the affairs of the city as he deems desirable.
   (i)   He shall perform such other duties as are specified in this Charter or
may be required by the Council.
   (j)   He shall be responsible for the proper handling, disbursement and
reporting on all matters of finance, purchasing, property management and other
acts required under Article IG of this Charter.
   (k)   He shall have additional specific contracting authority as may be
established by ordinance of the City Council.
Article VI.
City Secretary
Section 6.01. Appointment; removal; compensation.
The City Council shall appoint a City Secretary who shall serve at the
discretion of the Council. He shall receive such compensation as shall be fixed
by the Council.
Section 6.02. Duties of the City Secretary.
The City Secretary shall:
   (1)   attend all meetings of the City Council and keep accurate records of
all actions taken by the Council;
   (2)   maintain the official records and files of the city;
   (3)   administer oaths in any matter pertaining to municipal affairs;
   (4)   attest contracts, assessment certificates and other legal instruments
when executed by the authorized officers of the city;
   (5)   serve as the election official for all city elections; and
   (6)   perform such other duties as may be required of him by this Charter,
the City Council, or state law.
Article VI.
Administrative Departments
Section 7.01. General provisions.
(a)   Creation of departments. The Council may by ordinance establish city
departments, offices or agencies in addition to those created by this Charter
and may prescribe the functions of all departments, offices and agencies,
except that no function assigned by this Charter to a particular department,
office or agency may be discontinued or, unless this Charter specifically so
provides, assigned to any other.
(b)   Direction by Manager. All departments, offices and agencies under the
direction and supervision of the City Manager shall be administered by an
officer appointed by and subject to the direction and supervision of the City
Manager. The appointments of the directors of all departments established by
the Council or by this Charter shall be subject to the approval of the Council,
but approval by the Council shall not be required for the heads of subdivisions
of any department, office or agency, or of any other subordinate employee of
the city. The City Manager may serve as head of one or more such departments,
offices or agencies or may appoint one person as the head of two (2) or more of
them.
Section 7.02. Personnel rules.
The City Manager shall prepare personnel rules and the Council may by ordinance
adopt them with or without amendment. These rules shall provide for:
   (a)   the classification of all city positions, based on the duties,
authority and responsibility of each position, with adequate provision for
reclassification of any position whenever warranted by changed circumstances;
   (b)   a pay plan for all city positions;
   (c)   methods for determining the merit and fitness of candidates for
appointment or promotion;
   (d)   the policies and procedures regulating reduction in force and removal
of employees;
   (e)   the hours of work, attendance regulations and provisions for sick and
vacation leave;
   (f)   the policies and procedures governing persons holding provisional
appointments;
   (g)   the policies and procedures governing relationships with employee
organizations;
   (h)   policies regarding in-service training programs;
   (i)   grievance procedures; and
   (j)   other practices and procedures necessary to the administration of the
city personnel system.
Section 7.03. City Attorney.
The City Council shall appoint a City Attorney from recommendations of the City
Manager, or by any member of the City Council, who shall be duly licensed to
practice law in the State of Texas. He shall receive for his services such
compensation as may be fixed by the Council. He may be removed at any time by
majority vote of the City Council.
The City Attorney shall represent the City of Longview in all its litigation.
He shall be the legal advisor of and attorney and counsel for the City of
Longview, the Council and all boards, commissions and agencies, and all
officers and departments thereof.
The City Attorney shall have authority to appoint one or more assistants,
subject to approval of the City Manager, such assistant or assistants to hold
office at the will of the City Attorney so long as he remains as such.
Notwithstanding the above provisions, the Council may engage special legal
counsel to represent the City of Longview in any specific matter or for the
performance of any specifically delineated duties otherwise to be performed by
the City Attorney.
Section 7.04. Independent audit.
The Council shall cause an independent audit to be made of the books of
account, records and transactions of all the administrative departments of the
city at least once yearly. Such audits, during such fiscal year, shall be made
by one or more certified public accountants who, for the three (3) years next
preceding, have held a certificate issued by the State Board of Accountancy of
the State of Texas, or by a state maintaining an equal standard of professional
requirements, which entitled the holder of such certificate to a Texas
certificate. The auditor or auditors to make the audit shall be selected by the
Council, and shall be responsible to the Council. The duties of the auditor or
auditors so appointed shall include the certification of all statements
required of the City Manager in his annual budget estimate, as well as any
additional duties which may be assigned by the City Council to the auditor(s),
as deemed necessary in the carrying out of budgetary responsibilities. Such
statements shall include a balance sheet, exhibiting the assets and liabilities
of the city, supported by departmental schedules, and schedules for each
utility publicly owned or operated, summaries of income and expenditures,
supported by detailed schedules; and also comparisons, in proper
classification, with the last previous year. The report of such auditor or
auditors for the fiscal year shall be printed and a copy thereof shall be
furnished to each member of the Council and the City Manager and a copy shall
be kept available in the office of the City Secretary for inspection by any
citizen upon request. A summary of such report of the auditor or auditors shall
also be published once in the official newspaper. The annual financial
statement, including the auditor's opinion on the statement, shall be filed in
the office of the City Secretary within one hundred and twenty (120) days after
the last day of the fiscal year, or as otherwise may be prescribed by state
law.
ArticleVIII.
Municipal Court
Section 8.01. Municipal court.
There shall be a court known as the municipal court of the City of Longview,
with such jurisdiction, powers and duties as are given and prescribed by the
laws of the State of Texas.
Section 8.02. Judge of the municipal court.
The municipal court shall be presided over by a magistrate who shall be known
as the Judge of the municipal court. The Judge shall be appointed by the
Council to serve at the discretion of the Council.
He shall have been admitted to practice law in the State of Texas for not less
than two (2) years and shall have resided in the City of Longview for a period
of not less than two (2) years immediately preceding his appointment.
In the event the Judge of the municipal court is unable to act for any reason,
the Council shall appoint an attorney possessing the qualifications required
above to act in his place. The Judge, or anyone acting in his place, shall
receive such compensation as may be set by the Council.
The Council shall have the power to create and establish additional municipal
courts, and to appoint more than one judge of each municipal court, whether one
or more, each of whom shall be a magistrate and shall have the qualifications
and serve at the discretion of the Council.
Section 8.03. Clerk of the municipal court.
There shall be a clerk of the municipal court who shall be appointed by the
City Manager. The clerk shall have the power to administer oaths and
affidavits, make certificates, affix the seal of the court thereto, and
otherwise perform any and all acts necessary in issuing process of such court
and conducting the business thereof.
Section 8.04. Authority, powers and procedures of municipal court.
The authority, powers, and procedures specified by Chapter 30, Subchapter A of
Government Code, as amended or as may be hereafter amended, are hereby
incorporated herein and made a part of this Charter for all purposes. If a
provision(s) of Chapter 30, Subchapter A, as amended, of Government Code
conflicts with a specific provision in Chapter 30, Subchapter N, as amended, or
Article VIII of this Charter then the specific provision(s) controls.
Article IX.
Financial Procedures
Section 9.01. Fiscal year.
The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of October and end on
the last day of September of the next succeeding year. Such fiscal year shall
also constitute the budget and accounting year.
Section 9.02. Submission of budget and budget message.
On or before the first day of August of each year, the Manager shall submit to
the Council a budget for the ensuing fiscal year and an accompanying message.
Section 9.03. Budget message.
The Manager's message shall explain the budget both in fiscal terms and in
terms of the work programs. It shall outline the proposed financial policies of
the city for the ensuing fiscal year, describe the important features of the
budget, indicate any major changes from the current year in financial policies,
expenditures, and revenues together with the reasons for such changes,
summarize the city's debt position and include such other material as the
Manager deems desirable.
Section 9.04. Preparation and submission of budget.
The budget shall provide a complete financial plan for the fiscal year, and
shall conform to all requirements of state laws in regards to its preparation,
submission and filing as well as any requirements mandated by the City Council.
The budget shall conform to recommendations for budgets and crediting
procedures as prescribed by the Municipal Finance Officers Association to the
extent possible.
Section 9.05. Budget a public record.
The budget and all supporting schedules shall be filed with the City Secretary
before the 30th day before the date the City Council adopts the tax levy for
the fiscal year or as otherwise specified by State law and shall be opened to
public inspection by anyone interested.
Section 9.06. Public hearing on budget.
At the Council meeting at which time the budget is submitted, the Council shall
name the date and place of a public hearing on the budget and shall cause to be
published in the official newspaper of the city the time and place of the
hearing which may not occur earlier than sixteen (16) days after the budget is
filed with the City Secretary or as otherwise specified by state law. At this
hearing, interested citizens may express their opinions concerning items of
expenditures, giving their reasons for wishing to increase or decrease any
items of expense.
Any public hearings regarding tax rates involved in the preparation of the
budget shall be in accordance with the V.T.C.A. Tax Code, as amended, or as
otherwise specified by state law.
Section 9.07. Proceeding on adoption of budget.
After public hearing, the Council shall analyze the budget, making any
additions or deletions which they feel appropriate, and shall, at least ten
(10) days prior to the beginning of the next fiscal year, adopt the budget by a
favorable majority vote of all members of the Council. Should the Council take
no final action on or prior to such day, the budget as submitted by the City
Manager shall be deemed to have been finally adopted by the Council.
The adoption of the tax rate for the fiscal year shall be in accordance with
the V.T.C.A Tax Code, as amended, or as otherwise specified by state law.
Section 9.08. Budget, appropriation and amount to be raised by taxation.
On final adoption, the budget shall be in effect for the budget year. Final
adoption of the budget by the Council shall constitute the official
appropriations as proposed expenditures for the current year and shall
constitute the basis of official levy of the property tax as the amount of tax
to be assessed and collected for the corresponding tax year. Estimated
expenditures will in no case exceed proposed revenue plus cash on hand. Unused
appropriations may be transferred to any item required for the same general
purpose.
Section 9.09. Contingent appropriation.
Provision shall be made in the annual budget and in the appropriation ordinance
for a contingent appropriation in an amount not more than five (5) per cent of
the total general fund expenditures, to be used in case of unforeseen items of
expenditures. Such contingent appropriation shall be under the control of the
City Manager and distributed by him only after prior approval by the City
Council. The proceeds of the contingent appropriation shall be disbursed only
by transfer to other departmental appropriation, the spending of which shall be
charged to the departments or activities for which the appropriations are made.
Section 9.10. Amending the budget.
Under extreme emergency conditions which may arise and which could not
reasonably have been foreseen in the normal process of planning the budget, the
Council may, by a majority vote of the full membership, amend or change the
budget to provide for any additional expense in which the general welfare of
the citizenry is involved. These amendments shall be by ordinance, shall become
an attachment to the original budget and be in accordance with state law.
Section 9.11. Certification; copies made available.
A certified copy of the budget, as finally adopted, and any ordinance amending
the budget shall be filed with the City Secretary, and such other places
required by state law or as the City Council shall designate. The final budget
shall be printed, mimeographed or otherwise reproduced and sufficient copies
shall be made available for the use of all offices, agencies and for the use of
interested persons and civic organizations.
Section 9.12. Defect shall not invalidate the tax levy.
Errors or defects in the form or preparation of the budget or the failure to
perform any procedural requirements shall not nullify the tax levy or the tax
rate.
Section 9.13. Finance.
A central accounting system shall be established, and insofar as local
conditions will permit, all functions of accounting, financing, inventory, and
budget controls will be centralized therein. The City Manager shall perform, or
delegate to one or more officers designated by him, the following duties and
responsibilities:
   (a)   supervise and be responsible for the disbursement of all moneys and
have control over all expenditures to ensure that budget appropriations are not
exceeded;
   (b)   maintain a general accounting system for the city government and each
of its offices, departments and agencies, keep books for and exercise financial
budgetary control over each office, department and agency, keep separate
accounts for the items of appropriation contained in the city budget, each of
which accounts shall show the amount of the appropriation, the amounts paid
therefrom, the unpaid obligations against it and the unencumbered balance;
require reports of receipts and disbursements from each receiving and spending
agency of the city government to be made daily or at such intervals as he may
deem expedient;
   (c)   submit to the Council a monthly statement of all receipts and
disbursements in sufficient detail to show the exact financial conditions of
the City of Longview;
   (d)   have custody of all public funds belonging to or under the control of
the City of Longview, or any office, department or agency of the city
government, and deposit all funds coming into his hands in such depository or
depositories as may be designated by the City Council, subject to the
requirements of law in force from time to time as to the furnishing of bond,
the deposit of securities, the awarding of the depository contract and the
payment of interest on deposits;
   (e)   have custody of all investments and invested funds of the city
government, or in possession of such government in a fiduciary capacity, and
have the safekeeping of all bonds and notes of the City of Longview and the
receipt and delivery of City of Longview bonds and notes for transfer,
registration or exchange; however, all investments of public funds shall be
governed by the Public Funds Investment Act in Chapter 2256 of the Texas
Government Code, as amended, or as otherwise specified by state law.;
   (f)   supervise and be responsible for the purchase, storage and
distribution of all supplies, materials, equipment and other articles used by
any office, department or agency of the city government and prepare the
periodical inventories of supplies, materials and city-owned property; and
   (g)   approve all proposed expenditures and unless there is an unencumbered
balance of appropriations and available funds, no expenditure shall be made.
Section 9.14. Accounting supervision and control.
The City Manager or such officer or officers designated by him shall have power
and shall be required to:
   (a)   prescribe the forms of receipts, vouchers, bills or claims to be used
by all the offices, departments and agencies of the city government;
   (b)   examine and approve all contracts, orders and other documents by which
the city government incurs financial obligations, having previously ascertained
that moneys have been appropriated and allotted and will be available when the
obligations shall become due and payable;
   (c)   audit and approve before payment all bills, invoices, payrolls and
other evidences of claims, demands or charges against the city government and
with the advice of the City Attorney determine the regularity, legality and
correctness of such claims, demands or charges; and
   (d)   inspect and audit any accounts or records of financial transactions
which may be maintained in any office, department or agency of the city
government apart from or subsidiary to the accounts kept in his office.
Section 9.15. Lapse of appropriations.
All appropriations shall lapse at the end of the fiscal year to the extent that
they shall not have been expended or lawfully encumbered.
Section 9.16. Fees shall be paid to City of Longview.
All fees received by any officer or employee shall belong to the city and shall
be accounted for and paid to the department of finance at such times as
required by the City Manager except as otherwise provided.
Section 9.17. Sale of city property.
In the sale of personal property valued at more than fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00), the property shall be advertised for sale and bids in the local
newspaper. The contract of sale shall be awarded to the highest responsible
bidder, either at auction or upon sealed bids, after such public notice and
competition as may be prescribed, and upon such other terms and conditions not
inconsistent with express provisions of law and of this Charter, as the City
Council may order; provided the City Council shall have the power to reject any
and all bids and advertise again. These same procedures shall be used whenever
the City of Longview acts as transfer agent. Sale or exchange of real property
shall be in accordance with the provisions of V.T.C.A., Local Government Code,
Chapter 272, as amended, and as otherwise specified by state law. Sale of park
land shall be in accordance with the provisions of V.T.C.A., Chapter 253, Local
Government Code, as amended, and as otherwise specified by state law.
Section 9.18. Purchase procedure.
Expenditures shall be made according to procedures established by ordinance of
the City Council for all budgeted items exceeding fifteen thousand dollars
($15,000.00). All contracts or purchases involving more than fifteen thousand
dollars ($15,000.00) shall be let to the lowest and best bid by a responsible
bidder after there has been an opportunity for competitive bidding in
accordance with the requirements of V.T.C.A., Local Government Code Chapter 252
and any present or future amendments relating thereto. Provided, however, the
Council shall have the right to reject any and all bids. Provided, further,
nothing herein shall apply to contracts for personal or for professional
services nor to work done by the city and paid for by the day as such work
progresses nor to the purchase of real estate, nor to any other expenditure
otherwise excepted from the competitive bidding requirements of state law.
Emergency purchases are authorized under circumstances and in accordance with
procedures set forth under V.T.C.A., Local Government Code Chapter 252 and any
present or future amendments relating thereto. Preference to local bidders in
the purchasing of real property or personal property not affixed to real
property is authorized under circumstances and in accordance with procedures
set forth under V.T.C.A., Local Government Code § 271.905 and any present or
future amendments thereto.
Section 9.19. Disbursement of funds.
All checks, vouchers or warrants for the withdrawal of money from the city
depository shall be signed by the City Manager and countersigned by the finance
officer, if there is one officially designated, or, if not, then by the City
Secretary and/or by such other persons as designated by the City Council.
Section 9.20. Borrowing in anticipation of property taxes.
For the purpose of temporary borrowing, the City Council shall have the power
by ordinance to raise money on the credit of the city by the issuance of
warrants, certificates of obligation and/or notes in anticipation of the
collection of taxes, of special assessments, or of other anticipated revenues.
Section 9.21. Sale of notes; report of sale.
All notes issued pursuant to this article may be sold at not less than par and
accrued interest at private sale without previous advertisement, and such sale
shall be authorized by the Council.
Section 9.22. Surety bonds.
The directors of all administrative departments whose duties include the
handling of moneys, and all employees whose duties include the handling of
moneys, belonging to the City of Longview, shall, before entering upon the
duties of their office or employment, make bond in some responsible surety
company authorized to do business in the state, acceptable to the City Council.
Any such surety bond shall be conditioned that the principal thereon will
faithfully perform and/or discharge the duties of his office, account for and
pay over to the city all moneys and property coming into his hands belonging to
the city, and if there are provisions of state law bearing upon the functions
of his office under which the execution of a surety bond is required, it shall
be further conditioned to comply therewith. Premiums for such surety bonds will
be paid by the city.
Article X.
Incurring Indebtedness
Section 10.01. Powers to issue.
In keeping with the constitution of the State of Texas and not contrary
thereto, the City of Longview shall have the power to borrow money on the
credit of the city for any public purpose not now or hereafter prohibited by
the constitution and laws of the State of Texas, and shall have the right to
issue all tax bonds, revenue bonds, funding and refunding bonds, time warrants,
certificates of obligation and other evidence of indebtedness as now authorized
or as may hereafter be authorized to be issued by any city under and in
accordance with the restrictions, conditions and laws of the State of Texas.
Section 10.02. Sale of bonds.
No bonds issued by the City of Longview shall be invalid because they are sold
for less than par value and accrued interest. The Council shall have the right
to reject any or all bids.
Section 10.03. Interest and sinking funds.
It shall be the duty of the Council to levy an annual tax sufficient to pay the
interest on and provide the necessary sinking fund required by law on all
outstanding general obligation bonds, time warrants, and certificates of
obligation of the city. The proportion of ad valorem taxes which are devoted
for debt service shall be subject to the limitations imposed by state law. The
interest and sinking fund shall be deposited in a separate account and shall
not be diverted to or used for any other purpose than to pay the interest and
principal on all such bonds, time warrants, and certificates of obligations
issued by the City of Longview. The sinking fund maintained for the redemption
of any debt may be invested in any interest-bearing security authorized by the
laws of this state. Investments of all sinking funds for interest shall mature
at least fifteen (15) days prior to the date of payment due on bonds issued by
the City of Longview. The Council may invest public funds as authorized by the
Public Funds Investment Act of V.T.C.A., Chapter 2256 Government Code, as
amended, or as to any lawful investment otherwise specifically permitted by
state law.
Section 10.04. Revenue bonds.
The city shall have power to borrow money for the purpose of constructing,
purchasing, improving, extending or repairing of public utilities, recreational
facilities or facilities for any other self-liquidating municipal function not
now or hereafter prohibited by any general laws of the state, and to issue
revenue bonds to evidence the obligation created thereby. Such bonds shall be a
charge upon and payable solely from the properties or interest therein acquired
and the income therefrom, and shall never be a debt of the city. All revenue
bonds issued by the city shall be in accordance with state law.
Section 10.05. Execution and registration of bonds.
All bonds, warrants and certificates of indebtedness shall be signed by the
mayor, countersigned by the City Secretary, and sealed with the seal of the
city in the manner provided by general law, and shall be payable at such times
and place or places as may be fixed therein. It shall be the duty of the mayor,
when such bonds are issued, to forward the same to the attorney general of the
State of Texas for approval and for registration by the comptroller of public
accounts.
Section 10.06. Bond register.
The Director of Finance or other officer of the city designated by the City
Manager shall keep, or cause to be kept, for and on behalf of the city a
complete bond registry and books showing all bonds, warrants and certificates
of indebtedness issued, the date and amount thereof, the rate of interest,
maturity and other information pertinent thereto, of all bonds or other
indebtedness surrendered and all other transactions of the Council having
reference to the refunding of the indebtedness surrendered and all other
transactions of the Council having reference to the refunding of the
indebtedness of said city. When bonds or their coupons are paid, their payment
or cancellation shall be noted in said registry. The books shall be safely kept
among the records of the city.
Article XI.
Tax Administration
Section 11.01. Reserved.
Section 11.02. Power to tax; franchise taxes; occupation taxes.
(a)   The City Council shall have the power under the provisions of state law
to levy, assess and collect an annual tax upon all taxable property within the
city not to exceed the maximum provided by the constitution and general laws of
the State of Texas.
(b)   The City Council shall have the power annually to levy and collect a
street rental charge against any public service corporation, person, or entity
whether holding a franchise or not for the privilege of the use and occupancy
of public streets, alleys or grounds of the city, separately from the tangible
property of such corporations, companies and corporate institutions, as
authorized by the state laws, and shall have the full power to enforce the
collection of such rental charges.
(c)   The City Council shall have the right to assess and collect such
occupation taxes, licenses and franchise taxes upon trades, professions,
occupations and any business transaction carried on in said city as may be
authorized by the general laws of the State of Texas.
(d)   All existing taxes, assessments and charges of whatever kind or nature
heretofore levied by the City of Longview shall remain in full force and effect
until and unless repealed or changed by ordinance.
Section 11.03. Property subject to tax; method of assessment.
All property, real, personal or mixed, lying and being within the corporate
limits of the City of Longview on the first day of January, not expressly
exempted by law, shall be subject to annual ad valorem taxation at its true
market value. The mode and manner of making renditions, tax lists, assessments,
tax rolls, delinquent tax rolls, collections and procedures for enforcing
collection of such taxes shall be in accordance with the state laws governing
the levy and collection of ad valorem taxes by cities, school districts and
counties. The Gregg County Appraisal District shall assess all property which
has been omitted from assessment in prior years upon a current supplemental
assessment roll. The taxes upon such supplemental assessments shall be due at
once, and if not paid within sixty (60) days thereafter, shall be deemed
delinquent, and shall be subject to the same penalty and interest as other
delinquent taxes for such year. If the ownership of any property should be
unknown to the Gregg County Appraisal District shall enter that fact in the
record.
In addition to the powers granted by this section, the city shall have the same
power as county tax assessors and collectors in Texas to make back assessments,
all at the same value and tax rates as such property should have been assessed
and taxed for past years, and indicating the year or years for which it is
assessed.
Section 11.04. Reserved.
Section 11.05. Reserved.
Section 11.06. Reserved.
Section 11.07. Reserved.
Section 11.08. Taxes; when due and payable.
All taxes due the City of Longview shall be payable at the office of the Gregg
County Tax Assessor or as may otherwise be so designated and may be paid at any
time after the tax rolls for the year have been completed and approved, which
shall be not later than October first.
Section 11.09. Tax liens.
The tax levied by the city is hereby declared to be a lien, charge or
encumbrance upon the property upon which the tax is due, which lien, charge or
encumbrance the city is entitled to enforce and foreclose in any court having
jurisdiction over the same, and the lien, charge and encumbrance on the
property in favor of the city, for the amount of the taxes, penalties, interest
and other costs due on such property is such as to give the state courts
jurisdiction to enforce and foreclose said lien on the property on which the
tax is due, not only as against any resident of this state or person whose
residence is unknown, but also as against nonresidents. All taxes upon real
estate shall especially be a lien and a charge upon the property, real,
personal or mixed, upon which the taxes are due, which lien may be foreclosed
in any court having jurisdiction. The city's tax lien shall exist from January
first in each year until the taxes are paid. Such lien shall be prior to all
other claims, and no gift, sale, assignment or transfer of any kind, or
judicial writ of any kind, can defeat such lien.
All persons or corporations owning or holding personal property or real estate
in City of Longview on the first day of January of each year shall be liable
for all municipal taxes levied thereon for such year.
The personal property of all persons owing any taxes to the City of Longview is
hereby made liable for all of said taxes, whether the same be due upon personal
or real property, or upon both.
Section 11.10. Arrears of taxes offset to debt against city.
The city shall be entitled to counterclaim and offset against any debt, claim,
demand or account owed by the city to any person, firm or corporation who is in
arrears to the city for taxes, in the amount of taxes so in arrears, including
all penalties and interest, and no assignment or transfer of such debt, claim,
demand or account after the said taxes are due shall affect the right of the
city to so offset against the same.
Section 11.11. Additional power of Council.
Except as otherwise provided by law, or this Charter, the Council shall have
the power to provide by ordinance for the assessment and collection of all
taxes, and to make such rules, regulations and mode of procedure to enforce the
collection by and payment to the tax assessor-collector as it may deem
expedient, and shall provide such penalties for the failure to pay such taxes
as it may deem expedient.
Article XII.
Franchises and Public Utilities
Section 12.01. Powers of the city.
In addition to the city's power to buy, construct, lease, maintain, operate and
regulate public utilities and to manufacture, distribute and sell the output of
such utility of such utility operations, the city shall have such further
powers as may now or hereafter be granted under the constitution and laws of
the State of Texas.
Section 12.02. Franchises; power of council.
The Council shall have any and all authority and power to grant, amend, renew
or extend by ordinance all franchises of any and all public utilities of every
character, including cable television, operating within the City of Longview,
and for such purposes is granted full power allowed under state and federal law
and the Texas and United States Constitutions. All ordinances granting,
amending, renewing or extending franchises for public utilities shall be read
at two (2) separate regular meetings of the Council and shall not be finally
passed until thirty (30) days after the first reading; and no such ordinance
shall take effect until sixty (60) days after its final passage; and pending
such time, the full text of such ordinance shall be published once each week
for four (4) consecutive weeks in the official newspaper of the City of
Longview, and the expense of such publication shall be borne by the proponent
of the franchise. No public utility franchise shall be transferable except to
persons, firms or corporations taking all or substantially all of the holder's
business in the City of Longview and except with the approval of the Council
expressed by ordinance. No franchise shall be granted for an indeterminate term
nor for a term of more than twenty-five (25) years. No exclusive franchise
shall ever be granted. The City of Longview shall have any and all powers and
authority in regards to any and all franchises allowed under state and federal
law and the Texas and United States Constitutions.
Section 12.03. Franchise value not to be allowed.
In fixing reasonable rates and charges for utility service within the city and
in determining the just compensation to be paid by the city for public utility
property which the city may acquire by condemnation or otherwise, nothing shall
be included as the value of any franchise granted by the city under this
Charter.
Section 12.04. Right of regulations.
All grants, renewals, extensions or amendments to public utility franchises,
whether it be so provided in the ordinance or not, shall be subject to the
right of the city:
   (a)   to repeal the same by ordinance at any time for failure to begin
construction or operation within the time prescribed or for failure otherwise
to comply with the terms of the franchise, such power to be exercised only
after due notice and hearing.
   (b)   to require an adequate and reasonable extension of plant and service,
and the maintenance of the plant and fixtures at the standard necessary to
render the highest reasonable quality of utility service to the public.
   (c)   to establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates.
   (d)   to prescribe the form of accounts kept by each such utility. If the
franchise or ordinance does not prescribe the form of accounts kept by each
utility, then it shall keep its accounts in accordance with the utility system
of accounts for said utility prescribed by the National Association of Railroad
and Public Utility Commissioners, the Texas Railroad Commission, or their
successors or other state or federal utility regulating agencies.
   (e)   to examine and audit the accounts and other records of any such
utility at any time and to require annual and other reports, including reports
on local operations by each such public utility.
   (f)   to impose such reasonable regulations and restrictions as may be
deemed desirable or conducive to the safety, welfare and accommodation of the
public.
   (g)   to regulate any and all franchises as may be allowed under state and
federal law and the Texas and United States Constitutions.
Section 12.05. Consent of property owners.
The consent of abutting and adjacent property owners shall not be required for
the construction, extension, maintenance, or operation of any public utility,
but nothing in this Charter or in any franchise granted thereunder shall ever
be construed to deprive any such property owners of any right of action for
damage or injury to his property as now or hereafter provided by law.
Section 12.06. Extensions.
All extensions of public utilities within the city limits shall become a part
of the aggregate property of the public utility, shall be operated as such, and
shall be subject to all the obligations and reserved rights contained in this
Charter and in any original grant hereafter made. The right to use and maintain
any extension shall terminate with the original grant. In case of an extension
of public utility operated under a franchise hereafter granted, such right
shall be terminable at the same time and under the same conditions as the
original grant.
Section 12.07. Temporary permits.
Permits for minor or temporary privileges in the streets, public ways and
public places of the city may be granted and revoked from time to time,
provided they are unconditionally revocable at the will of the governing body.
Such permits shall not be deemed franchises as the term is used in this
Charter.
Section 12.08. Other conditions.
All franchises heretofore granted are recognized as contracts between the City
of Longview and the grantee, and the contractual rights as contained in any
such franchises shall not be impaired by the provisions of this Charter, except
that the power of the City of Longview to exercise the right of eminent domain
in the acquisition of any utility property is in all things reserved, and
except the general power of the city heretofore existing and herein provided
for to regulate the rates and services of a utility, which shall include the
right to require adequate and reasonable extension of plant and service and the
maintenance of the plant fixtures at the standard necessary to render the
highest reasonable quality of utility service to the public. Every public
utility franchise hereafter granted shall be held subject to all the terms and
conditions contained in the various sections of this article whether or not
such terms are specifically mentioned in the franchise. Nothing in this Charter
shall operate to limit in any way, as specifically stated, the discretion of
the Council or the voters of the city in imposing terms and conditions as may
be reasonable in connection with any franchise grant, including the right to
require such compensation or rental as may be permitted by the laws of the
State of Texas. The City of Longview shall have any and all powers and
authority in contracting for franchises as allowed under state and federal law
and the Texas and United States Constitutions.
Section 12.09. Franchise records.
Within six (6) months after this Charter takes effect, every public utility and
every owner of public utility franchise shall file with the city certified
copies of all franchises owned or claimed, or under which such utility is
operated in the City of Longview. The city shall compile and maintain a public
record of public utility franchises.
Section 12.10. Regulation of rates.
The City Council shall have the power by ordinance to fix and regulate, after
public hearing and reasonable notice, the price of water, gas, electric lights,
electric power, steam heat and cable television, and to regulate and fix the
fares, and charges of local telephone service and charges of all public
transportation of every kind, whether transporting passengers, freight, or
baggage, and generally to fix and regulate the rates and charges of all public
utilities of every kind operating within the corporate limits of the City of
Longview. The City Council shall have any and all powers and authority in
regards to franchise rate regulation allowed under state and federal law and
the Texas and United States Constitutions.
Article XIII.
Boards and Commissions
Section 13.01. Boards and commissions.
The City Council shall have authority to establish by ordinance such boards,
commissions, and committees as it may deem necessary for the conduct of city
business and management of municipal affairs. The authority, functions and
responsibilities of such boards, commissions and committees shall be such as is
spelled out in the ordinance establishing them. All existing boards and
commissions heretofore established shall be continued in accordance with the
ordinances or other acts under which they have been created, or until the City
Council shall by ordinance abolish, modify or alter the ordinances or acts
under which they exist. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Charter the
elected City Council shall have paramount authority over all matters affecting
the budgets, appropriation of funds, expenditures, purchases and sale of
properties and procedures for accounting therefor, consistent with the express
provision of this Charter and applicable provisions of the state constitution
and laws of this state.
Article XIV.
Initiative, Referendum and Recall
Section 14.01. Power of initiative.
The voters shall have power to propose any ordinance except an ordinance
appropriating money or authorizing the levy of taxes, and to adopt or reject
the same at the polls, such power being known as the initiative. Any initiative
ordinance may be submitted to the Council by a petition signed by currently
qualified voters of the city equal in number to at least ten (10) percent of
the total number of the qualified voters registered to vote at the last regular
municipal election. To be valid, a petition be submitted for the purpose of
complying with an initiative election process shall comply with the Texas
Election Code, as amended and shall be for a subject for which the initiative
election process is authorized by state law.
Section 14.02. Power of referendum.
The voters shall have power to approve or reject at the polls any ordinance
passed by the Council or submitted by the Council to a vote of the voters, such
power being known as the referendum, except in cases of bond ordinances and
ordinances making the annual tax levy. Ordinances submitted to the Council by
initiative petition and passed by the Council without change shall be subject
to the referendum in the same manner as other ordinances. Within twenty (20)
days after the enactment by the Council of any ordinance which is subject to a
referendum, a petition signed by currently qualified voters of the city equal
in number to at least ten (10) percent of the total number of the qualified
voters registered to vote at the last preceding regular municipal election may
be filed with the City Secretary requesting that any such ordinance be
submitted to a vote of the voters. To be valid, a petition be submitted for the
purpose of complying with a referendum election process shall comply with the
V.T.C.A., Election Code, as amended and shall be for a subject for which the
referendum election process is authorized by state law.
Section 14.03. Frequency of election.
Special elections on initiated or referred ordinances shall be held on one of
the uniform election dates as specified in the V.T.C.A. Election Code, as
amended, and no ordinance on the same subject as an initiated ordinance which
has been defeated or on the same subject as a referred ordinance which has been
approved at any election may be initiated by the voters within one year from
the date of such election.
Section 14.04. Form of petition.
Initiative petition papers shall contain the full text of the proposed
ordinance. The signatures to initiative or referendum petitions need not all be
appended to one paper, but to each separate petition there shall be attached a
statement of the circulator thereof as provided by this section. Each signer of
any petition paper shall sign his name in ink or indelible pencil, and shall
indicate after his name his place of residence by street and number, or other
description sufficient to identify the place. There shall appear on each
petition the names and addresses of five (5) voters, who, as a committee of the
petitioners, shall be regarded as responsible for the circulation and filing of
the petition. Attached to each separate petition paper there shall be an
affidavit of the circulator thereof that he only personally circulated the
foregoing paper, that it bears a stated number of signatures appended thereto
which were made in his presence, and that he believes them to be the genuine
signatures of the persons whose names they purport to be.
Section 14.05. Filing examination and certifications.
All petition papers comprising an initiative or referendum petition shall be
assembled and filed with the City Secretary as one instrument. Within ten (10)
days after the petition is filed, the City Secretary shall determine whether
each paper of the petition has a proper statement of the circulator, and
whether the petition is signed by a sufficient number of qualified voters. The
City Secretary shall declare any petition paper entirely invalid which does not
have attached thereto an affidavit signed by the circulator thereof. After
completing his examination of the petition, if the City Secretary certifies
that the petition is insufficient, he shall set forth in his certificate the
particulars in which it is defective, and shall at once notify the petitioners
of his findings. The City Secretary shall then notify the Council of the
results of his examination at its next regular meeting.
An initiative or referendum petition may be amended at any time within ten (10)
days after the notification of the insufficiency has been sent by the City
Secretary, by filing of a supplementary petition upon additional papers signed
and filed as provided in case of an original petition. The City Secretary
shall, within five (5) days after such an amendment is filed, make examination
of the amended petition, and, if the petition be still insufficient, he shall
file his certificate to that effect in his office, and notify the committee of
petitioners of his findings, and no further action shall be had on such
insufficient petition. The finding of the insufficiency of a petition shall not
prejudice the filing of a new petition for the same purpose.
When a referendum petition, or amended petition as defined above, has been
certified as sufficient by the City Secretary, the ordinance specified in the
petition shall not go into effect, or further action thereunder shall be
suspended if it shall have gone into effect, until and unless approved by the
voters, as hereinafter provided.
Section 14.06. Council consideration and submission to voters.
Whenever the Council receives a certified initiative or referendum petition
from the City Secretary, it shall proceed at once to consider such petition. A
proposed initiative ordinance shall be read, and provision shall be made for a
public hearing upon the proposed ordinance. The Council shall take final action
on the ordinance not later than sixty (60) days after the date on which such
ordinance was submitted to the Council by the City Secretary. A referred
ordinance shall be reconsidered by the Council, and its final vote upon such
reconsideration shall be upon the question, "Shall the ordinance specified in
the referendum petition be repealed?"
If the Council shall fail to pass an ordinance proposed by the initiative
petition, or shall pass it in a form different from that set forth in the
petition therefor, or if the Council fails to repeal a referred ordinance, the
proposed or referred ordinance shall be submitted to the voters on one of the
uniform election dates as specified in the V.T.C.A., Election Code, as amended
from the date the Council takes its final vote thereon. The Council may, in its
discretion, and if no regular election is to be held within such period,
provide for a special election. Special election laws as set out in the
V.T.C.A., Election Code, as amended shall be applicable to, and control in all
such elections.
Ordinances submitted to vote of the voters in accordance with the initiative
and referendum provisions of this Charter shall be submitted by ballot title,
which shall be prepared in all cases by the City Attorney, but it shall be
finally approved by the City Council. The ballot title may be different from
the legal title of any such initiated or referred ordinance and shall be a
clear, concise statement, without argument or prejudice, descriptive of the
substance of such ordinance and if a paper ballot is used, it shall have below
the ballot title the following propositions, one above the other in the order
indicated: "FOR THE ORDINANCE" and "AGAINST THE ORDINANCE," Any number of
ordinances may be voted on at the same election, and may be submitted on the
same ballot, but any paper ballot used for voting on an initiated or referred
ordinance or ordinances shall be for that purpose only. If voting machines are
used, the ballot title of any ordinance shall have below it the same two (2)
propositions, one above the other or one preceding the other in the order
indicated, and the voter shall be given an opportunity to vote for either of
the two (2) propositions and thereby to vote for or against the ordinance.
Section 14.07. Referendum petitions; suspension of effect of ordinances.
When a referendum petition is filed with the City Secretary, the ordinance
sought to be reconsidered shall be suspended from taking effect. Such
suspension shall terminate when:
   (a)   there is a final determination of insufficiency of the petition, or
   (b)   the petitioners' committee withdraws the petition, or
   (c)   the Council repeals the ordinance, or
   (d)   thirty (30) days have elapsed after a vote for repeal of the ordinance
has failed.
Section 14.08. Results of referendum elections.
If a majority of the voters voting on a proposed initiative ordinance shall
vote in favor thereof, it shall thereupon be an ordinance of the city. A
referred ordinance which is not approved by a majority of the voters voting
thereon shall thereupon be deemed repealed. If the conflicting ordinances are
approved by the voters at the same election, the one receiving the greatest
number of affirmative votes shall prevail to the extent of such conflict.
Initiative and referendum ordinances adopted or approved by the voters shall be
published, and may be amended or repealed by the Council, as in the case of
other ordinances.
Section 14.09. Power of recall.
The people of the city or, in the case of a Councilman elected from a district,
the people of that district reserve the power to recall any elected officer of
the city or from that district. In the case of the Mayor elected at large, such
power may be exercised by filing with the City Secretary a petition signed by
currently qualified voters of the city equal in number to at least twenty five
(25) percent of the total number of currently qualified voters registered to
vote at the last regular municipal election demanding the removal of such
elected officer. In the case of a Councilman elected from a district, such
power may be exercised by filing with the City Secretary a petition signed by
currently qualified voters of the district served by such Councilman equal in
number to at least twenty-five (25) percent of the total number of currently
qualified voters registered to vote at the last regular municipal election in
such district demanding the removal of such elected officer. If the petition is
certified by the City Secretary to be sufficient, the Council shall order and
hold an election forthwith to determine whether such officer shall be recalled,
and if the majority of the legal votes are cast for a recall of the officer
named on the ballot, the Council shall immediately declare his office vacant,
and such vacancy shall be filled forthwith in accordance with the provisions of
this Charter. No recall petition shall be filed against an officer within six
(6) months after such elected officer takes office.
Any member of the City Council may be removed from office by recall. To be
valid, a petition submitted for the purpose of complying with a recall election
process shall comply with the Texas Election Code, as amended.
Section 14.10. Public hearing to be held.
The officer whose removal is sought may, within five (5) days after such recall
petition has been presented to the City Council, request that a public hearing
be held to permit him to present pertinent facts. In this event the City
Council shall order such public hearing to be held not less than five (5) days
nor more than fifteen (15) days after receiving such request for a public
hearing.
Section 14.11. Recall election.
The City Secretary shall at once examine the recall petition and if he finds it
sufficient and in compliance with the provisions of this article of the
Charter, he shall within five (5) days submit it to the City Council with the
City Secretary's certificate to that effect, and notify the officer sought to
be recalled of such action. To be valid, a petition submitted for the purpose
of complying with a recall election process shall comply with the V.T.C.A.,
Election code, as amended. If the officer whose removal is sought does not
resign within five (5) days after such notice, the City Council shall thereupon
order and fix a date for holding a recall election. Any such election shall be
held not less than thirty (30) nor more than ninety (90) days after the
petition has been presented to the City Council or after the public hearing
provided in section 14.10 is held, if such hearing is requested, at the same
time as any municipal election held within such period; but if no such
municipal election be held within such period, the City Council shall call a
special election to be held within the time aforesaid.
All qualified voters of the city shall be entitled to cast ballots in a recall
election of the Councilman elected at large and all qualified voters in the
district in which a recall election for a Councilman elected from the district
shall be entitled to cast ballots in the recall election in that district.
Ballots used at recall elections shall conform to the following requirements:
   (a)   With respect to each person whose removal is sought, the question
shall be submitted "Shall (name of person) be removed from the office of
Councilman by recall?"
   (b)   Immediately below each such question there shall be printed the two
(2) following propositions, one above the other, in the order indicated:
      "For the recall of (name of person)"
      "Against the recall of (name of person)".
Section 14.12. Results of recall election.
If a majority of the votes cast at a recall election shall be against the
recall of the officer named in the ballot, he shall continue in office for the
remainder of his unexpired term, subject to recall. If a majority of the votes
cast at such election be for the recall of the officer named on the ballot, he
shall, regardless of any technical defects in the recall petition, be deemed
removed from office, and the vacancy shall be filled by the City Council as
herein provided.
Article XV.
General Provisions
Section 15.01. Personal financial interests.
The Mayor, Council members and other officers and employees of the city are
subject to conflict of interest provisions as provided in V.T.C.A, Local
Government Code Chapter 171 as amended. Any violations of this Section shall
result in the forfeiture of office, position or job as well as any penalties
provided by state law.
Section 15.02. Official oath.
All elected officers of the city shall, before entering upon the duties of
their respective offices, take and subscribe the official oath prescribed by
the constitution of the State of Texas. The oath of office shall be
administered by the City Secretary or any other person authorized by law to
administer oaths.
Section 15.03. Notice of claim.
The city shall not be held liable on account of any claim for the death of any
person or injuries to any person or damage to any property unless the person
making such complaint or claiming such damages shall, within six (6) months
after the time at which it is claimed such damages were inflicted upon such
person or property, file with the city a written statement under oath, stating
the nature and character of such damages or injuries, the extent of the same,
the place where same happened, the circumstances under which same happened and
the conditions causing same, with a detailed statement of each item of damages
and the amount thereof, and if it be for personal injuries, giving a list of
any witnesses known by affiant to have seen the accident.
Section 15.04. Assignment, execution and garnishment.
The property, real and personal, belonging to the city shall not be liable for
sale or appropriation under any writ or execution. The funds belonging to the
city in the hands of any person, firm or corporation shall not be liable to
garnishment on account of any debt it may owe or funds or property it may have
on hand or owing to any person. Neither the city nor any of its officers or
agents shall be required to answer any such writ of garnishment on any account
whatever. The city shall not be obligated to recognize any assignment of wages
or funds by its employees, agents or contractors.
Section 15.05. Security or bond not required.
It shall not be necessary in any action, suit or proceedings in which the city
shall be a party for any bond, undertaking or security to be executed in behalf
of the city, but all actions, suits, and proceedings shall be conducted in the
same manner as if such bond, undertaking, or security had been given. The city
shall have all remedies of appeal provided by law to all courts without bond or
security of any kind. For the purposes of all such actions, suits, proceedings
and appeals, the city shall be liable in the same manner and to the same extent
as if the bond, undertaking or security had been executed and given.
Section 15.06. Nepotism.
The Mayor, City Council members, officers and employees are subject to
applicable nepotism provisions of Chapter 573 of the Texas Government Code, as
amended.
Section 15.07. Fire limits.
The City Council may establish fire limits and prescribe the kind and character
of materials to be used in buildings constructed within such limits.
Section 15.08. When provisions take effect.
For the purpose of nominating and electing members of the Council, the
provisions of this Charter shall be in effect for the regular municipal
election to be held in April, 1979. For all other purposes this Charter shall
be in effect as provided in Section 15.19.
Section 15.09. Ordinances, rules and regulations validated.
All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City of Longview
heretofore ordained, passed or enacted, that are in force at the time this
Charter becomes effective, and which are not in conflict with such Charter,
shall remain in full force until altered, amended or repealed by the City
Council after such Charter takes effect.
Section 15.10. Separability clause.
If any section or part of a section of this Charter shall be held invalid by a
court of competent jurisdiction, such holding shall not affect the remainder of
this Charter nor the context in which such section or part of a section so held
invalid may appear, except to the extent that an entire section or part of
section may be inseparably connected in meaning and effect with the section or
part to which such holding shall directly apply.
Section 15.11. Charter amendment.
This Charter may be amended in accordance with the procedures set forth in
V.T.C.A., Chapter 9 Local Government Code and Article 11, Section 5 of the
Texas Constitution as amended or as may be hereafter amended.
Section 15.12. Officers and employees.
(a)   Rights and privileges preserved. Nothing in this Charter, except as
otherwise specifically provided, shall affect or impair the rights of
privileges of persons who are city officers or employees at the time of its
adoption.
(b)   Continuance of office or employment. Except as specifically provided by
this Charter, if at the time this Charter takes full effect a city
administrative officer or employee holds any office or position which is or can
be abolished by or under this Charter, he shall continue in such office or
position until the taking effect of some specific provision under this Charter
directing that he vacate the office or position. Any elected officer whose
office becomes appointive or is or may be abolished by this Charter shall
continue in office to which he or she was elected until his or her term
expires, at which time such elective office is abolished as such.
Section 15.13. Departments, offices and agencies.
(a)   Transfer of powers. If a city department, office or agency is abolished
by this Charter, the powers and duties given it by law shall be transferred to
the city department, office or agency designated in this Charter or if the
Charter makes no provision, designated by the City Council.
(b)   Property and records. All property, records and equipment of any
department, office or agency existing when this Charter is adopted shall be
transferred to the department, office or agency assuming its powers and duties,
but, in the event that the powers or duties are to be discontinued or divided
between units or in the event that any conflict arises regarding a transfer,
such property, records or equipment shall be transferred to one or more
departments, offices or agencies designated by the Council in accordance with
this Charter.
Section 15.14. Pending matters.
All rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal or administrative
proceedings shall continue except as modified pursuant to the provisions of
this Charter and in each case shall be maintained, carried on or dealt with by
the city department, office or agency appropriate under this Charter.
Section 15.15. Judicial notice.
This Charter shall be deemed a public act, may be read in evidence without
pleading or proof, and judicial notice shall be taken thereof in all courts and
places.
Section 15.16. Gender.
Wherever the context shall so require, the words "he," "him," "his,"
"councilman" and all other words herein in the male gender shall be deemed to
include the female gender, all singular words shall include the plural, and all
plural words shall include the singular.
Section 15.17 Reserved.
Section 15.18. Reserved.
Section 15.19. Charter to become effective on January 1, 1979.
The Charter Commission further directs that in order to permit an orderly
transition from government of the city's affairs under the provisions of its
present Home Rule Charter to those prescribed by this Charter, this Charter
shall become effective and its provisions shall not be in force until January
1, 1979.
Chapter 1
General Provisions
Sec.
1-1.   How Code designated and cited.
Sec.
1-2.   Catchlines of sections.
Sec.
1-3.   Rules of construction.
Sec.
1-4.   General penalty; continuing violations.
Sec.
1-5.   Failure to pay fine.
Sec.
1-6.   Escape of prisoners.
Sec.
1-7.   Ordinances - Amendments to Code.
Sec.
1-8.   Same - Recording; ordinance books as evidence.
Sec.
1-9.   Same - Effect of repeal.
Sec.
1-10.   Severability of parts of Code.
Sec. 1-1.   How Code designated and cited.
The ordinances embraced in this and the following chapters and sections shall
constitute and be designated "The Code of Ordinances, City of Longview, Texas"
and may be so cited. Such code may also be cited as the "Longview City Code" or
as the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Longview, Texas."
(Ord. 3286, § 4, 1-22-04)
Sec. 1-2. Catchlines of sections.
The catchlines of several sections of this Code printed in boldface type are
intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the section and shall
not be deemed or taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the
section, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of
such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
Sec. 1-3. Rules of construction.
In the construction of this Code, and of all ordinances and resolutions passed
by the City Council, the following rules shall be observed, unless such
construction would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the Council:
   City. The word "city" shall mean the City of Longview, Texas.
   City Council. The words "the City Council" or "this City Council" shall mean
the City Council of Longview, in the County of Gregg and State of Texas.
   City Council Secretary, Chief Executive Officer, Chief of Police  or other
city officers. The words "City Council Secretary," "Chief Executive Officer,"
"Chief of Police" or other city officers or departments shall be construed to
mean the City Council Secretary, Chief Executive Officer, Chief of Police or
such other municipal officers or departments, respectively, of the City Council
of Longview, Texas.
   Computation of time. Whenever a notice is required to be given or an act to
be done a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be had, the day on
which such notice is given or such act is done shall be counted in computing
the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be had shall not be
counted.
   Council. Whenever the words "Council" or "this Council" are used, they shall
mean the City Council of the City of Longview, Texas.
   Gender. A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
   Highway. The term "highway," when used in this Code, shall include any
street, alley, highway, avenue or public place or square, bridges, viaducts,
tunnels, underpasses, overpasses and causeways in the City Council, dedicated
or devoted to public use.
   Joint authority. Words purporting to give authority to three or more
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such officers or other persons, unless it is otherwise declared.
   Month. The word "month" shall mean a calendar month.
   Number. Any word importing the singular number shall include the plural and
any word importing the plural number shall include the singular.
   Oath. The word "oath" shall be construed to include an affirmation in all
cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be substituted for an oath, and in
such cases the words "swear" and "sworn" shall be equivalent to the words
"affirm" and "affirmed."
   Or, and. "Or" may be read "and" and "and" may be read "or," if the sense
requires it.
   Owner. The word "owner", applied to a building or land, shall include any
part owner, joint owner, tenant in common, of the whole or part of such
building or land.
   Person. The word "person" shall extend and be applied to associations,
corporations, firms, partnerships and bodies politic and corporate as well as
to individuals.
   Preceding, following. The words "preceding" and "following" mean next before
and next after, respectively.
   Roadway. The word "roadway" shall mean that portion of a street improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
   Shall. The word "shall" will always be mandatory and never permissive.
   Sidewalk. The word "sidewalk" shall mean any portion of the street between
the curb, or the lateral line of the roadway and the adjacent property line,
intended for the use of pedestrians.
   Signature  or  subscription. The words "signature" or "subscription" shall
include a mark when a person cannot write.
   State. The words "the state" or "this state" shall be construed to mean the
State of Texas.
   Street. The term "street", when used in this Code, shall include any
highway, alley, street, avenue, public place or square, bridge, viaduct,
underpass, overpass, tunnel and causeway in the City Council, dedicated or
devoted to public use.
   Time. Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
   Written  or  in writing. The words "written" or "in writing", shall be
construed to include any representation of words, letters or figures, whether
by printing or otherwise.
   Year. The word "year" shall mean a calendar year.
Sec. 1-4. General penalty; continuing violations.
Whenever in this Code or in any ordinance of the City Council an act is
prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful or an offense or a misdemeanor,
or wherever in such Code or ordinance the doing of any act is required or the
failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is
provided therefor, the violation of any such provision of this Code or any such
ordinance shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $2,000.00 in all cases
arising under ordinances governing fire safety, zoning, or public health and
sanitation, including dumping of refuse, and not exceeding $500.00 in all other
cases; provided, however, that no penalty shall be greater or less than the
penalty provided for the same or a similar offense under the laws of the state.
Each day any violation of this Code or of any ordinance shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 676, § 1, 5-13-69; Amended 3-11-86, Ord. No. 1821; Amended 9-26-91,
Ord. No. 2178)
Sec. 1-5. Failure to pay fine.
When any person fails or refuses for any reason to pay any fine or costs
adjudged against him, upon conviction of a violation of this Code or other
ordinance of the City Council, he shall be required to do manual labor in
accordance with the following rules and regulations:
(1)   To work for city only. Persons so convicted shall work on the city's
streets, bridges, parks and municipal property and for the city only.
(2)   Guarding of prisoners. The City Council may employ a person to guard such
prisoners and to oversee the labor, enforce such labor and prevent escape by
prisoners, and the person so employed shall be paid out of the city treasury,
such compensation as the City Council may prescribe. Persons so convicted shall
be guarded with firearms or with ball and chain, if necessary, while at work,
so as to prevent escape.
(3)   Work hours. Persons working under this section shall be required to labor
not less than eight hours each day, Sundays excepted. In the event of an
emergency, however, prisoners may be required to work longer hours.
(4)   Physical inability to work. A prisoner who, from age, disease or other
physical or mental disorder, is physically unable to do manual labor, shall not
be required to do manual labor, but shall remain in jail until his fine and
costs adjudged against him are discharged according to law. The prisoner's
inability to do work, when such disability is not obvious, shall be determined
by examination by the City Council physician.
(5)   Credit against fine and cost. Each prisoner shall receive credit against
his fine and costs as follows:
   a.   for each day he or she remains in jail, $5.00.
   b.   for each day a prisoner works on streets, bridges or other public
property, an additional $2.00 per day.
   c.   for each day the prisoner serves as a trustee, an additional $1.00 per
day.
It is the intention of this subsection to provide that a prisoner may work off
as much as $7.00 per day on his fine, if working on streets and bridges, $6.00
per day on other work, and receive a minimum credit of $5.00 per day if he is
unable to work.
(6)   Food for prisoners. Prisoners that work under the provisions of this
section shall receive food three times a day and prisoners that do not work
shall receive only breakfast and evening meals.
Sec. 1-6. Escape of prisoners.
It is hereby declared to be a misdemeanor for anyone convicted of a violation
of this Code or other ordinance of the City Council to escape or attempt to
escape from confinement, or to escape from the guard while at work on the
public streets, bridges or parks or any municipal property or project. Any
person convicted in the corporation court of the City Council and having a fine
and costs adjudged against him, and while the same remains unpaid, who escapes
or attempts to escape either confinement in jail or from the custody of the
guard while at work out of jail, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
Any person employed to guard any prisoner while at work under the provisions of
Section 1-5 shall be responsible for preventing the escape of such prisoner
while in his custody and under his control and, in the event of wilfully or
negligently allowing the escape of a prisoner, such guard shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction in the corporation court of the
City Council, shall be fined the balance of the fine and costs due and unpaid
of the escaped prisoner, plus costs of court, not to exceed, in fine, the sum
of $100.00.
Sec. 1-7. Ordinances - Amendments to Code.  
All ordinances passed subsequent to this Code that amend provisions, repeal
provisions, add provisions or in any way affect this Code may be numbered in
accordance with the numbering system of this Code and included herein. When
subsequent ordinances repeal any chapter, section or subsection or any portion
thereof, such repealed portions shall be excluded from the Code. The subsequent
ordinances as numbered and included in the Code, or omitted in the case of
repeal, shall be prima facie evidence of such subsequent ordinances until such
time that this Code and subsequent ordinances numbered or omitted are re-
adopted as a new Code by the City Council.
(Ord. 3286, § 5, 1-22-04; Ord. No. 3525, § 2, 6-14-07)
Sec. 1-8. Same - Recording; ordinance books as evidence.
All ordinances adopted or passed by the City Council shall be inscribed at
large by the secretary, not only in the minutes of the Council, but also in a
special book to be kept for that purpose by the Secretary, and wherein, at the
foot of each ordinance so inscribed, the secretary shall make and sign a note
stating the time of the adoption of such ordinance. Such book of ordinances and
all copies and extracts therefrom shall be evidence of the tenor and contents
of the ordinances therein inscribed, as well of such as have been heretofore or
as may be hereafter therein so inscribed.
Sec. 1-9. Same - Effect of repeal.
The repeal of an ordinance shall not revive any ordinance in force before or at
the time the ordinance repealed took effect. The repeal of an ordinance shall
not affect any punishment or penalty incurred before the repeal took effect,
nor any suits, prosecution or proceeding pending at the time of the repeal, for
an offense committed under the ordinance repealed.
Sec. 1-10. Severability of parts of Code.
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this Code are severable
and, if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or section of this Code shall
be declared unconstitutional by the valid judgment or decree of any court of
competent jurisdiction, such unconstitutionality shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this Code,
since the same would have been enacted by the City Council without the
incorporation in this Code of any such unconstitutional phrase, clause,
sentence, paragraph or section.
Chapters 2 - 3
Reserved
Chapter 4
Administration
Article I. In General
Sec.
4-1.   Office of City Manager created.
Sec.
4-2.   Office of City Secretary established.
Sec.
4-3.   Office of City Engineer established; powers and duties generally.
Sec.
4-4.   City inspectors may serve in dual capacities.
Sec.
4-5.   Reserved.
Sec.
4-6.   Social security for city employees - Execution of agreements.
Sec.
4-7.   Same - Duties of City Secretary.
Sec.
4-8.   Fund established.
Secs.
4-9 - 4-10.  Reserved.
Sec.
4-11.   Council meetings.
Sec.
4-12.   Reserved.
Sec.
4-13.   City employees prohibited from carrying weapons on city work sites, in
city buildings or while on city business.
Secs.
4-14 - 4-20.   Reserved.
Article II. Digital Signatures
Sec.  
4-21.   Purpose.
Sec.
 4-22.   Definitions.
Sec.
4-23.   Limitations.
Sec.
4-24.   Authorized use.
Sec.
4-25.   Authorized technologies.
Sec.
4-26.   Record retention.
Sec.
4-27.   Unacceptable practices.
Sec.
4-28.   Criminal penalties.
Article III. Planning and Zoning Commission
Secs.
4-37 - 4-38.   Reserved.
Sec.
4-39.   Duty to adopt master and comprehensive plan with maps.
Sec.
4-40.   State law adopted by reference.
Sec.
4-41.   Joint meetings with City Council.
Sec.
4-42.   Planning and zoning fees.
Secs.
4-43 - 4-50.   Reserved.
Article IV. Texas Municipal Retirement System
Sec.
4-51.   Election to participate.
Sec.
4-52.   Employees included.
Sec.
4-53.   Additional or discontinuance of departments or employees.
Sec.
4-54.   Remittance to board of trustees; payroll deduction.
Sec.
4-55.   Maximum earnings to be considered in calculating deposits and
contributions to be made by reason of current service of employees who are
members of retirement system.
Sec.
4-56.   1978 initial allowance of updated service credit, increase in
annuities; participation in certain funds.
Sec.
4-57.   Re-election to participate in Texas Municipal Retirement System
effective January 1, 1980.
Sec.
4-58.   Additional rights, credits and benefits effective November 1, 1981.
Secs.
4-59 - 4-64.   Reserved.
Article V. Reserved
Secs.
4-65 - 4-80.   Reserved.
Article VI. Parks and Recreation Board
Secs.
4-81- 4-83.   Reserved.
Sec.
4-84.   Election of officers.
Sec.
4-85.   Powers and duties generally.
Sec.
4-86.   Rules and regulations; meetings.
Secs.
4-87 - 4-100.   Reserved.
Article VII. City Boards, Commissions and Committees
Sec.
4-101.   Generally.
Sec.
4-102.   Terms of service on city boards and commissions.
Sec.
4-103.   Length of terms of service established; vacancies.
Sec.
4-104.   Uniform appointment dates established; interim service.
Sec.
4-105.   Attendance requirements; reporting of attendance.
Sec.
4-106.   Work plans.
Sec.
4-107.   Sunset provision.
Sec.
4-108.   Cultural Activities Advisory Commission.
Sec.
4-109.   Animal Shelter Advisory Committee.
Sec.
4-110.   Reserved.
Sec.
4-111.   Reserved.
Sec.
4-112.   Reserved.
Sec.
4-113.   Public Transportation Advisory Board.
Sec.
4-114.   Reserved.
Sec.
4-115.   Reserved.
Sec.
4-116.   Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board.
Sec.
4-117.   Longview Housing Authority & Community Development Advisory
Commission.
Sec.
4-118.    Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee.
Sec.
4-119.   Senior Advisory Committee.
Sec.
4-120.   Reserved.
Article VIII. Management of City Records
Sec.
4-121.   Municipal records, city records, or records.
Sec.
4-122.   Additional definitions.
Sec.
4-123.   Municipal records declared public property.
Sec.
4-124.   Policy.
Sec.
4-125.   Designation of records management officer.
Sec.
4-126.   Establishment of records management committee; duties.
Sec.
4-127.   Records management plan to be developed; approval of plan; authority
of plan.
Sec.
4-128.   Duties of records management officer.
Sec.
4-129.   Duties and responsibilities of department heads.
Sec.
4-130.   Designation of records liaison officers.
Sec.
4-131.   Duties and responsibilities of records liaison officers.
Sec.
4-132.   Records control schedules to be developed; approval; filing with
state.
Sec.
4-133.   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of records
under schedule.
Sec.
4-134.   Destruction of unscheduled records.
Sec.
4-135.   Records center.
Sec.
4-136.   Micrographics, electronic storage or optical disk storage systems.
Sec.
4-137.   Charge for public information.
Sec.
4-138.   Charge for municipal court records.
Secs.
4-139 - 4-160.  Reserved.
Article IX. Authority, Duties and Responsibilities of the City Manager
Sec.
4-161.   General.
Sec.
4-162.   Cumulative of other authority, duties, and responsibilities.
Sec.
4-163.   Contracting authority.
Sec.
4-164.   Acceptance of conveyance or acquisition by eminent domain where
consideration is $10,000.00 or less.
Sec.
4-165 .   Approval of claims.
Sec.
4-166    Acceptance of donations where value is $10,000.00 or less.
Secs.
4-167- 4-200.    Reserved.
Article X. Health Authority
Sec.
 4-201.   Appointment of health authority; qualifications; duties and
responsibilities.
Article XI. National Incident Management System
Sec.
 4-211.   National Incident Management System adopted
Sec .
4-212.   Implementation.
Sec.  
4-213.   Grant compliance.
Article I. In General
Sec.
 4-1.   Office of City Manager created. 
The office of City Manager is hereby created, and his duties, qualifications,
term of office, and the amount of the bond required of him, are fully set out
in the Charter.
(Code 1943, Art. 11-1)
Sec. 4-2.   Office of City Secretary established. 
The office of the City Secretary of the city is hereby created, and his duties,
qualifications, and the amount of his bond are as provided in the Charter.
(Code 1943, Art. 13-1)
Sec. 4-3.   Office of City Engineer established; powers and duties generally.
The office of City Engineer is hereby created and established and he shall have
such powers and perform such duties as are now or may hereafter be prescribed
and provided by the Charter and ordinances of the city.
(Code 1943, Art. 17-1)
Sec. 4-4.   City inspectors may serve in dual capacities.
One person selected as under the respective ordinances provided, may serve in
the multiple capacity as building inspector, electrical inspector and plumbing
inspector. His duties being such as required and defined under the present
ordinances of the city, and any ordinances that may be hereafter passed by the
governing body thereof.
(Code 1943, Art. 15-1)
Sec. 4-5.   Reserved.
Sec. 4-6.   Social security for city employees - Execution of agreements.
The City Council acting for and on behalf of the city shall enter into all
necessary agreements with the state Department of Public Welfare for the
purpose of carrying out the provisions of applicable state and federal laws
relative to federal old age and survivor's insurance benefits for the city
employees.
The Mayor is hereby appointed as agent of the City Council and of the city to
execute all necessary agreements and instruments for and in behalf of the City
Council and the city.
(Ord. No. 287, § 2, 1-8-57)
Sec. 4-7.   Same - Duties of City Secretary.
The City Secretary is hereby directed to be the person responsible for making
assessments, collections, payments, and reports, as required by the state
Department of Public Welfare.
(Ord. No. 287, § 3, 1-8-57)
Sec. 4-8.   Fund established.
A sufficient sum of money shall be allocated and set aside from available funds
for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of the federal old age and
survivor's insurance program under applicable state and federal laws, such
money so allocated and set aside to be known as the "City of Longview Social
Security Fund," which fund shall be set aside and maintained in the regular
city depository.
(Ord. No. 287, § 4, 1-8-57)
Secs. 4-9 - 4-10. Reserved.
Sec. 4-11.   Council meetings.
The second and fourth Thursdays at 5:30 p.m. of each month are hereby
prescribed as the dates for the holding of all regular meetings of the City
Council of the City of Longview, Texas; provided, however, that the City
Council may from time to time call such other regular meetings of the City
Council as the City Council shall deem appropriate.
(Ord. No. 1337, Art. I, 7-8-80; Ord. No. 3262, § 2, 10-9-03; Ord. No. 3455, §
2, 6-22-06)
Sec. 4-12.   Reserved.
Sec. 4-13.   City employees prohibited from carrying weapons on city work
sites, in city buildings or while on city business.
(a)   No employee (other than a peace officer) shall carry on or about his or
her person, at a city work site, any instrument or weapon that is specifically
designed, made, or adapted for the purpose of inflicting serious bodily injury
or death, including, but not limited to, clubs, explosive weapons, firearms,
crossbows, bows and arrows, throwing stars, zip guns, and knuckles.
(b)    No employee (other than a peace officer) shall carry a weapon in any
city building, regardless of whether or not the person is duly licensed by the
State of Texas to carry a handgun.
(c)   No employee (other than a peace officer) may carry a weapon on or about
his or her person at any time while conducting city business, regardless of
whether or not the person is licensed by the State of Texas to carry a
concealed handgun. Employees violating this policy shall be subject to
disciplinary action up to and including termination.
(d)   The term "city work site" includes:
   (1)   city buildings and real property, excluding parking lots, when the
firearm is secured within the employee's vehicle;
   (2)   other assigned work locations;
   (3)   city vehicles and equipment;
   (4)   private vehicles while being used on city business, for which the city
is paying car allowance or mileage reimbursement.
(e)   The term "city building" means any and each building or portion of a
building owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by the city.
(f)    An employee may leave a firearm that is legal to possess, in the
employee's locked vehicle in a parking lot owned or controlled by the city, if
the employee does not violate any other statute or ordinance by possessing the
firearm.
(Ord. No. 4019, 12-10-15)
Secs. 4-14 - 4-20.   Reserved.
Article II.
Digital Signatures
Sec. 4-21. Purpose.
This article constitutes rules adopted by the city council in accordance with
Texas Government Code, Section 2054.060. The purpose of this article is to
ensure applicable procedures are in place to accomplish the following:
(a)   control and limit types of records or transactions for which a digital
signature may be used;
(b)   limit who may use a digital signature;
(c)   mandate the use of digital signature software;
(d)   mandate the retention of a transaction involving a digital signature in
accordance with applicable law.
Sec. 4-22. Definitions
In this article, the term "digital signature" has the meaning assigned by
Section 2054.060 of the Texas Government Code.
Sec. 4-23. Limitations.
(a) This article does not apply to digital signatures not intended to legally
bind the city, for example, signatures on email and other informal
communications.
(b) This article does not:
(1)   change procedures for the negotiation, review, and approval of contracts,
including city attorney review, prior to use of the digital signature;
(2)   change procedures regarding who can release the final document upon
execution;
(3)   limit the city's right or option to conduct a transaction on paper or in
non-electronic form; or
(4)   supersede any law or scenario wherein a written signature is specifically
required.
(c) In accordance with Section 322.005 (c) of the Texas Business & Commerce
Code, the fact that the city agrees to accept digital signatures for a
transaction or otherwise conduct a transaction by electronic means doesn not
necessarily extend to future transactions. The city may refuse to accept
digital signatures or otherwise conduct other transactions by electronic means.
Sec. 4-24. Authorized use.
(a) The city recognizes the use of a digital signature as an acceptable
alternative to a manual signature in accordance with the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act  (UETA). Accordingly, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
the city may accept digital signatures as legally binding and equivalent to
handwritten signatures to signify an agreement, provided such signatures comply
with this article.
(b) Only the city manager or employees authorized by the city manager or
specifically authorized by other law are able to execute city contracts or
other legally binding documents using a digital signature.
(c) The city may use a digital signature for a document that needs to be
notarized but the notary must be commissioned as an "online notary public" by
the Texas Secretary of State.
(d) Anything in this article notwithstanding, an attorney representing the city
may sign pleadings, motions, briefs, correspondence and similar submissions to
courts, to state administrative hearings officials, to the Office of the
Attorney General of Texas, and to other similar state or federal agencies in
any manner acceptable to the court or agency receiving the submission.
Sec. 4-25. Authorized technologies.
Acceptable digital signature technologies must be generated via a system that
requires single sign-on or a password validating that the signature being
applied to the document belongs to the user. Digital signature technologies not
speciffically listed below require approval from the information Services
Department before use:
(a)   OnBase Workflow;
(b)   DocuSign;
(c)   Adobe Sign;
(d)   Tyler Technologies software products;
(e)   CiviPlus CivicOptimize.
Sec. 4-26. Record retention.
In accordance with Section 322.008 (a) of the Texas Business & Commerce Code,
if the city has agreed to conduct a transaction by electronic means, the
requirement to provide, send, or deliver information in writing is satisfied if
the information is provided, sent, or delivered in an electronic record capable
of retention by the recipient at the time of receipt. If a law or retention
schedule requires the retention of the record, the city must retain the
electronic record in a manner that complies with Section 322.012 of the Texas
Business & Commerce Code and the manner of retention must accurately reflect
the information in the record in its final form as an electronic record and the
record must remain accessible for later reference.
Sec. 4-27. Unacceptable practices .
Digital signatures generated by the following are not acceptable:
(a)   typing the signer's name;
(b)   scanning a written signature;
(c)   inserting/pasting a copy of a written signature into a document.
Sec. 4-28. Criminal penalties.
The use of a digital signature is subject to criminal laws pertaining to fraud
and computer crimes, including Chapters 32 and 33 of the Texas Penal Code.
(Ord. No. 4468, § 2, 10-26-23)
Article III.
Planning and Zoning Commission
Secs. 4-37 - 4-38. Reserved.
Sec. 4-39.   Duty to adopt master and comprehensive plan with maps.
The Planning and Zoning Commission shall have the power and it shall be its
duty to make and recommend for adoption a master plan for the city as a whole
or in parts for the future development and redevelopment of the city and its
environs and it shall be its duty to prepare a comprehensive plan and ordinance
with maps for zoning the city, in accordance with the provisions of the
Constitution of the State of Texas, and applicable state statutes, city
ordinances and Charter provisions. The Commission shall perform such other
duties as may be prescribed by ordinance or the laws of the state.
(Ord. No. 76, § 6, 3-9-48)
Sec. 4-40.   State law adopted by reference.
The Acts of 1927, 40th Legislature, page 424, Chapter 283, also designated as
Articles 1011a through 1011j, Vernon's Texas Civil Statutes Annotated, and all
amendments to them, be and the same are hereby adopted by the city as a basis
and as a guide and to furnish rules and regulations for the zoning of the city;
this act to be supplemental and in addition to such zoning authority as is now
granted the city by the Constitution of the State of Texas, the other laws of
the state, and the Charter of the city.
(Ord. No. 76, § 1, 3-9-48)
Sec. 4-41.   Joint meetings with City Council.
Whenever the City Council of the City of Longview, Texas, and the Planning and
Zoning Commission of the City of Longview, Texas, are required by the laws of
the State of Texas to conduct public hearings in matters pertaining to planning
and zoning, and at other times when desired, such City Council and such
Planning and Zoning Commission are hereby authorized, after published notice as
required by law, to hold joint meetings and to conduct together joint public
hearings; provided that the City Council shall not take action on the matters
heard until it has received the final report of the Planning and Zoning
Commission.
(Ord. No. 636, § 1, 4-30-68)
Sec. 4-42.   Planning and zoning fee schedule.
All fees imposed in connection with the administration of the city subdivision
regulations and city zoning regulations shall be as set by resolution of the
City Council. Such fees may include, without limitation, fees for application
for zoning change requests, for zoning publications, for application for a
subdivision plat or replat approval, and/or for site plan review.
(Ord. No. 2956, § 2, 9-7-00; Ord. No. 3053, § 2, 8-9-01)
Secs. 4-43 - 4-50.   Reserved.
Article IV.
Texas Municipal Retirement System
Sec. 4-51.   Election to participate.
On behalf of the city, the City Council hereby exercises its option and elects
to have the city and all of the employees of all departments, except the fire
department, participate in the Texas Municipal Retirement System as provided in
House Bill 29, Chapter 75, page 108, Acts of the 50th Legislature in 1947,
being Article 6243h of Vernon's Annotated Civil Statutes; and all of the
benefits and obligations of such system are hereby accepted.
(Ord. No. 101, § 1, 2-21-49)
Sec. 4-52.   Employees included.
Each person who becomes an employee of any participating department, except
employees of the fire department which participates in its own retirement plan,
on or after February 21, 1949, by participation of such department shall be
included within and subject to the provisions of the Texas Municipal Retirement
System beginning upon the date such person becomes an "employee" as defined in
subsection 14, Section 2, of such system.
(Ord. No. 101, § 3, 2-21-49)
Sec. 4-53.   Additional or discontinuance of departments or employees.
The city may in the future refuse to add new departments or new employees to
such system but shall never discontinue as to any participants.
(Ord. No. 101, § 4, 2-21-49)
Sec. 4-54.   Remittance to board of trustees; payroll deduction.
The City Secretary is hereby directed to remit to the board of trustees of the
Texas Municipal Retirement System, at its office in Austin, Texas, the city's
proper contributions to the system and the amounts which shall be deducted from
the compensation or payroll of employees, all as required by such board under
the provisions of Chapter 75, Act of the 50th Legislature of the State of
Texas, 1947.
(Ord. No. 101, § 5, 2-21-49)
Sec. 4-55.   Maximum earnings to be considered in calculating deposits and
contributions to be made by reason of current service of employees who are
members of retirement system.
The total earnings, which may be paid by the city to any of its employees who
are members of the Texas Municipal Retirement System, shall be considered in
calculating the amount to be withheld and the deposits and contributions to be
made to the Texas Municipal Retirement System by reason of current service
rendered by such employee to this city.
(Ord. No. 1015, 8-12-75)
Sec. 4-56.   1978 initial allowance of updated service credit; increase in
annuities; participation in certain funds.
(a)   Initial allowance of updated service credit.
   (1)   On the terms and conditions set out in Section XVII of the Texas
Municipal Retirement System Act (Article 6243h, Vernon's Texas Civil Statutes)
each member of the Texas Municipal Retirement System who has current service
credit or prior service credit in said system in force and effect on the first
day of January, 1978, by reason of service in the employment of the city, shall
be and is hereby allowed "updated service credit" (as that term is defined in
said Act) in an amount that is one hundred (100) percent of the "base update
service credit" of the member, calculated as provided in said Act. The updated
service credit hereby allowed shall be in lieu of and in substitution for all
prior service credits, special prior service credits, and antecedent service
credits, if any, heretofore allowed such member by reason of service with the
city.
   (2)   In accordance with the provisions of said Act, the deposits required
to be made to the Texas Municipal Retirement System by employees of the several
participating departments on account of current service shall be calculated
from and after the date aforesaid on the full amount of such person's earnings
as an employee of the city.
   (3)   Subject to the approval of the board of trustees of the Texas
Municipal Retirement System, the updated service credits hereby granted shall
be and become effective the first day of January, 1978.
(b)   Initial increase in annuities in effect.
   (1)   Pursuant to Section XVIII of the Texas Municipal Retirement System Act
and subject to approval by the board of trustees of the Texas Municipal
Retirement System as provided in said Act, the city hereby elects to allow and
to provide for payment of the increases below specified in all monthly benefits
payable by the Texas Municipal Retirement System after the first day of
January, 1978, to retired employees and to beneficiaries of deceased employees
of the city under current service annuities and prior service annuities arising
from service of such employees to the city and in effect prior to the date last
above-mentioned.
   (2)   Each monthly benefit for the month of January, 1978, and each month
thereafter shall be increased by 50 percent above the amount of regular benefit
(as distinguished from any supplemental or distributive benefit) in effect for
the month December, 1977.
(c)   Participation in supplemental benefits funds.
   (1)   The city, by its City Council hereby elects to have the employees of
all participating departments of said city participate in and be covered by the
supplemental benefits fund of the Texas Municipal Retirement System as provided
by Act; and all benefits and obligations of said fund are hereby accepted by
the city as to such employee. Each person who becomes an employee of any
participating department on or after the effective date of participation of
such department in said fund shall as a condition of his employment be covered
into the supplemental benefit fund of said system. The city may in the future
refuse to add new departments or new employees to said fund, but shall never
discontinue as to any members who are covered into the fund.
   (2)   The City Secretary is hereby directed to remit monthly to the board of
trustees of the Texas Municipal Retirement System at its office in Austin,
Texas, as the city's contribution to the supplemental benefits fund of the
Texas Municipal Retirement System, such percentage of earnings of the above-
mentioned employees of said city as may be fixed by the board of trustees of
the Texas Municipal Retirement System, provided that the rate of contribution
to said fund shall not exceed one-half of one per centum of the earnings of the
employees of said city who are covered under said fund; and the City Secretary
shall make for the city such reports as the board of trustees of the Texas
Municipal System may prescribe.
   (3)   Participation of the above-mentioned employees in the supplemental
benefits fund shall be effective January 1, 1978.
(d)   Participation in the supplemental death benefits fund. The city hereby
elects to participate in the supplemental death benefits fund of the Texas
Municipal Retirement System beginning with the date such fund shall be made
operational, for the purpose of providing in-service death benefits in the
amount and on the terms provided for in Section XIX of the Texas Municipal
Retirement System Act for each of the city's employees who is a member of said
system and for the purpose of providing post-retirement benefit as provided in
said Section XIX for annuitants whose last covered employment was as an
employee of this city.
(Ord. No. 1138, §§ 1-4, 9-13-77)
Sec. 4-57.   Re-election to participate in Texas Municipal Retirement System
effective January 1, 1980.
(a)   Election to participate. The City Council of the City of Longview, Texas,
on behalf of said city hereby exercises its option and elects to have the city
and all of the employees of all departments now existing and those hereafter
created, except those employees of the fire department who are included in or
who are eligible to be included in membership in firemen's relief and
retirement fund of the city, participate in the Texas Municipal Retirement
System as provided in the TMRS Act, and all of the benefits and obligations of
such system are hereby accepted as to such employees.
(b)   Employees included. Each person who becomes an employee of any
participating department on or after the effective date of participation of
such department shall become a member of the Texas Municipal Retirement System
as a condition of his employment.
(c)   Deposits. In accordance with the provisions of the statute, the deposits
to be made to the Texas Municipal Retirement System on account of current
service of the employee of the several participating departments are hereby
fixed at the rate of five percent of the full earnings of each employee of said
departments.
(d)   Prior service credit. Each employee who qualifies for such credit shall
be allowed "prior service credit" (as defined in Subsection 6(b) of Section VI
of the TMRS Act) at the rate of 100 percent at the "base prior service credit"
of such member, calculated in the manner prescribed in said Act.
(e)   City's contribution. For each month of current service rendered to this
city by each of its employees who are members of the Texas Municipal Retirement
System, the city will contribute to the current service annuity reserve of each
such member at the time of his retirement, a sum that is 150 percent of such
member's accumulated deposits for such month of employment; and said sum shall
be contributed from the city's account in the municipality current service
accumulation fund.
(f)   Remittance to board of trustees; payroll deduction. The City Secretary is
hereby directed to remit to the board of trustees of the Texas Municipal
Retirement System at its office in Austin, Texas, the city's contributions to
the system and the amounts which shall be deducted from the compensation or
payroll of employees, all as required by said board under the provisions of the
TMRS Act, and the said official is hereby authorized and directed to ascertain
and certify officially on behalf of the city, the prior service rendered to the
said municipality by each of the employees of the participating departments,
and the average prior service compensation received by each, and to make and
execute all prior service certifications and all other reports and
certifications which may be required of the city under the provisions of the
TMRS Act, or in compliance with the rules and regulations of the board of
trustees of the Texas Municipal Retirement System.
(g)   Effective date. Participation of the above-mentioned employees in the
Texas Municipal Retirement System shall become effective on January 1, 1980.
(Ord. No. 1294, §§ 1, 3--8, 12-11-79)
Sec. 4-58. Additional rights, credits and benefits effective November 1, 1981.
(a)   Pursuant to Section XX of Article 6243h, Vernon's Texas Civil Statutes,
as amended, the city adopts the following plan provisions affecting
participation of its employees in the Texas Municipal Retirement System:
   (1)   Each person who becomes an employee of any participating department of
this city and who is not already a member of the Texas Municipal Retirement
System shall become a member of the system as a condition of employment,
provided such person is then under 60 years of age.
   (2)   Any member, after one year from the effective date of membership,
shall be eligible for service retirement who has attained the age of 50 years
and has completed 25 years of creditable service with this city or who has
attained the age of 60 years and has completed at least ten years of creditable
service with participating municipalities which have adopted the plan
provisions of this section, or who has become eligible for service retirement
under any other applicable provision of Article 6243h, Vernon's Texas Civil
Statutes.
   (3)   The membership of any member who has completed at least ten years of
creditable service with this city and other participating municipalities which
have adopted the plan provisions of Section XX of Article 6243h, Vernon's Texas
Civil Statutes shall not terminate because of absence from service.
   (4)   Any person who is an employee of a participating department of this
municipality at the effective date of this section, but who at the date of his
employment was under 60 years of age but did not become a member of the Texas
Municipal Retirement System because he was then above the maximum age then
prescribed by law for initial membership in the system, shall become a member
of the system at the effective date of this section, unless he has already
become a member under other provisions of the governing act, and shall be
allowed prior service credit for each month of creditable service performed for
this municipality subsequent to the date such person was precluded from
membership and prior to the effective date of his membership. Such prior
service credit shall be calculated using the same percentage of the base prior
service credit as was most recently used in calculating prior service credits
or updated service credits in said system for current member employees of this
city.
(b)   The rights, credits and benefits hereinabove authorized shall be in
addition to the plan provisions heretofore adopted and in force at the
effective date of this section pursuant to the Act governing said system.
(c)   This section shall become effective on the first day of the calendar
month following its enactment, provided it has previously been determined by
the actuary for the system that the additional obligations herewith undertaken
can be funded within the period prescribed by the Act above cited, and will not
result in probable depletion of this city's account in the prior service
accumulation fund of the system.
(Ord. No. 1444, Arts. I, II, IV, 10-13-81)
Secs. 4-59 - 4-64.   Reserved.
Article V.
Reserved
Secs. 4-65 - 4-80.   Reserved.
Article VI.
Parks and Recreation Board
Secs. 4-81 - 4-83. Reserved.
Sec. 4-84. Election of officers.
The parks and recreation board shall elect a chairman, vice chairman and a
secretary from its membership.
(Ord. No. 686, § 4, 7-8-69)
Sec. 4-85. Powers and duties generally.
It shall be the duty of the parks and recreation board to review and make
recommendations to the City Council on all matters regarding parks, recreation
areas and recreation equipment within the city, including the proposed
purchase, acquisition or lease of any real property to be used as a part of the
city parks and recreation system, the proposed sale, lease or other disposition
of any real property owned by the city, and used in connection with its parks
and recreation system, its purchase, acquisition or lease of any playground or
other equipment to be used by the city in connection with its parks and
recreation system, expenditure of any funds in connection with the city parks
and recreation system and any other matters which affect the city parks and
recreation system.
The parks and recreation board shall make its recommendations to the City
Council regarding such matters prior to action thereon by the City Council.
Nothing contained herein shall in any manner affect the power of the City
Council to take whatever action or pass whatever ordinances it shall deem
advisable or necessary at any time in connection with the parks and recreation
system of the city.
(Ord. No. 686, § 5, 7-8-69; Ord. No. 727, § 1, 3-10-70)
Sec. 4-86. Rules and regulations; meetings.
Rules and regulations for the conduct of the business of the parks and
recreation board consistent with the provisions of this section shall be
formulated by the board. Meetings of such board shall be upon call by the
chairman or by a majority of the members of such board.
(Ord. No. 727, § 2, 3-10-70)
Secs. 4-87 - 4-100.   Reserved.
Article VII.
City Boards, Commissions, and Committees
Sec. 4-101.   Generally.
(a)   The terms and provisions of this article shall apply to those boards,
commissions, and committees of the city listed herein, and to all other boards,
commissions, or committees of the city which shall be hereafter created, unless
specifically exempted by ordinance from this article.
(b)   Existing city boards, commissions, or committees governed by this article
and their maximum number of members shall be as follows:
   (1)   Cultural Activities Advisory Commission; seven members.
   (2)   Partners in Prevention Steering Committee; seven members.
   (3)   Construction Advisory and Appeals Board; nine members.
   (4)   Parks and Recreation Advisory Board; seven members.
   (5)   Planning and Zoning Commission; nine members.
   (6)   Zoning Board of Adjustment; five members.
   (7)   Public Transportation Advisory Board; nine members.
   (8)   Animal Shelter Advisory Committee; seven members, said members
composed of the four persons required by Texas Health and Safety Code, Section
823.005, as amended, and three members in addition to said persons.
   (9)   Longview Historic Preservation Commission; seven voting members and
four ex officio non-voting members.
   (10)   Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board; nine voting members and
four non-voting members.
   (11)   Longview Housing Authority Advisory Commission; seven members.
   (12)   Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee; twelve members appointed by
the City Council, one City Council member appointed by the Mayor as an ex-
officio member, and the chairperson of the Planning and Zoning Commission as an
ex-officio member.
   (13)   Senior Advisory Committee; seven members.
(c)    This article shall not apply to the Longview Economic Development
Corporation."
(Ord. No. 2702, § 11, 2-12-98; Ord. No. 2991, § 2, 12-14-00; Ord. No. 3009, §
6, 2-22-01; Ord. No. 3019, § 2, 4-12-01; Ord. No. 3045, § 2, 6-28-01; Ord. No.
3046, § 2, 6-28-01; Ord. No. 3169, § 2, 11-14-02; Ord. No. 3269, § 2, 11-13-03;
Ord. No. 3402, §2, 8-11-05; Ord No. 3409, § 2, 9-8-05; Ord No. 3502, § 2, 1-25-
07; Ord No. 3563, §2, 1-24-08; Ord No. 3569, §2, 3-27-08; Ord. No. 3615, §2,
10.9.08; Ord. No. 3689, §2, 5-13-10; Ord. No. 3729, § 2, 11-11-10; Ord. No.
3739, §3, 1-13-11; Ord. No. 3752, § 2, 3-24-11; Ord. No. 3859, § 2, 2-14-13;
Ord. No. 3983, § 2, 4-23-15; Ord. No. 3985, § 2, 4-23-15; Ord. No. 4058, § 2,
7-14-16; Ord. No. 4063, § 2, 7-28-16; Ord. No. 4229, § 2, 7-25-19; Ord. No.
4357, § 4, 4-14-22; Ord. No. 4465, §2, 9-21-23; Ord. No. 4484, § 2, 3-28-24)
Sec. 4-102.   Terms of service on city boards and commissions.
(a)   From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, no person shall be
appointed to serve more than two consecutive full terms on any board,
commission, or committee of the city; provided, however, any person having
completed two such consecutive terms shall be eligible for appointment to
another board, commission, or committee immediately upon completion of said two
consecutive terms, or shall be eligible for reappointment to the same board,
commission, or committee one year from and after the expiration of the second
of the two consecutive terms.
(b)   Service on any board, commission, or committee of the city prior to the
date of passage of this ordinance shall not be considered in determining
eligibility to continue to serve as set out in (a) of this section.
(c)   Appointment to a city board, commission, or committee to fulfill an
unexpired term shall not be considered in determining eligibility to continue
to serve as set out in subsection (a) of this section.
(d)   No person shall be appointed, nor shall any person be eligible to serve
on more than two boards, commissions, or committees of the city at any given
time except that a member of any one of the following boards, commissions, or
committees may serve on only one board, commission or committee at a time:
Construction Advisory and Appeals Board, Planning and Zoning Commission, Zoning
Board of Adjustment, Longview Historic Preservation Commission.
(e)   Appointments to all city boards, commissions, or committees shall be
coordinated through the City Manager or the City Manager's designee.
(f)    No person shall be appointed, nor shall any person be eligible to serve
on a board, commission, or committee of the city unless the person is a
resident in the city limits of the city.
(g)   Anything to the contrary in this section notwithstanding, a person is not
required to be a resident of the city in order to be appointed to and to be
eligible to serve on the Partners in Prevention Steering Committee, the Animal
Shelter Advisory Committee, the Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board, or
the Longview Housing Authority Advisory Commission. Anything to the contrary in
this section notwithstanding, a person is not required to be a resident of the
city in order to be appointed to and to be eligible to serve in a non-voting
position on a board, commission, or committee.
(h)   Anything to the contrary in this section notwithstanding, a person is not
required to be a resident of the city in order to be appointed to and to be
eligible to serve on the following boards, if that person is employed within
the City limits: Construction Advisory and Appeals Board and Longview Historic
Preservation Commission.
(Ord. No. 2991, § 3, 2-14-00; Ord No. 3502, § 3, 1-25-07; Ord No. 3569, § 3, 3-
27-08; Ord. No. 3615, § 3, Ord. No. 3689, § 3, 5-13-2010; Ord. No. 3742, § 2,
2-10-11; Ord. No. 3766, § 2, 7-14-11; Ord. No. 3859, § 3, 2-14-13; Ord. No.
3917,§ 2, 3-13-14; Ord. No. 4357, § 4, 4-14-22; Ord. No. 4484, § 3, 3-28-24;
Ord. No. 4496, § 2, 6-13-24)
Sec. 4-103.   Length of terms of service established; vacancies.
(a)   The length of each term of service for members of the following boards,
commissions, or committees of the city shall be two years: the Zoning Board of
Adjustment, the Partners in Prevention Steering Committee, the Parks and
Recreation Advisory Board, the Cultural Activities Advisory Commission,
Construction Advisory and Appeals Board, the Public Transportation Advisory
Board, the Animal Shelter Advisory Committee, the Longview Historic
Preservation Commission, the Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board, the
Longview Housing Authority Advisory Commission, the Comprehensive Plan Advisory
Committee, and the Senior Advisory Committee; provided, however, that if any
appointment is not timely made, a member or members shall continue to serve
until reappointed or until a successor has been appointed by the City Council.
(b)   The length of each term of service for members of the following boards,
commissions, or committees of the city shall be three years: the Planning and
Zoning Commission; provided, however, that if any appointment is not timely
made, a member or members shall continue to serve until reappointed or until a
successor has been appointed by the City Council.
(c)   Any vacancy that occurs for any reason on any board, commission, or
committee of the city shall be filled for the length of an unexpired term in
the same manner in which original appointment was required to be made.
(Ord. No. 2991, § 4, 12-14-00; Ord. No. 3019, § 3, 4-12-01; Ord. No. 2997, § 2,
1-25-01; Ord. No. 3045, § 3, 6-28-01; Ord. No. 3046, § 3, 6-28-01; Ord. No.
3169, § 3, 11-14-02; Ord. No. 3269, § 3, 11-13-03; Ord. No. 3277, § 2, 12-11-
03, Ord. No. 3402, § 3, 8-11-05, Ord. No. 3409, § 3, 9-8-05; Ord No.3502 § 4,
1-25-07; Ord No. 3569, §4, 3-27-08; Ord. No. 3615, §4, 10.9.08, Ord. No. 3689,
§4, 5-13-10; Ord. No. 3729, § 3, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 3739, §3, 1-13-11; Ord. No.
3752, § 3, 3-24-11; Ord. No. 3859, § 4, 2-14-13; Ord. No. 3890, §4, 9-26-13;
Ord. No. 3985, § 3, 4-23-15; Ord. No. 4229, §3, 7-25-19; Ord. No. 4357, § 4, 4-
14-22; Ord. No. 4484, § 4, 3-28-24)
Sec. 4-104.   Uniform appointment dates established; interim service.
(a)    Appointments to all boards, commissions, and committees shall hereafter
be made in June of each calendar year; provided however, that when a board,
commission, or committee has been newly created the appointments are effective
upon its creation and length of terms of service for appointees shall be
calculated from the next calendar June following the creation of the board,
commission, or committee.
(b)    Unless otherwise expressly provided by ordinance, the appointments to
all boards, commissions, and committees hereinafter created shall be made in
June.
(c)    The City Council may make interim appointments to boards, commissions,
or committees to serve until appointments are made in accordance with this
section. Service in interim appointments shall not be considered in determining
eligibility to continue to serve as set out in Section 4-102(a) of this
article.
(d)   The City Council shall designate a chairperson for each board,
commission, and committee. The chairperson shall continue to serve in that
capacity until a successor has been appointed by the City Council.
(e)   All boards, commissions, and committees shall also have power to make
rules, regulations and bylaws for its own administration. Rules, regulations
and bylaws for all boards, commissions, and committees must be approved by City
Council. Nothing contained herein shall in any manner affect the power of the
City Council to take whatever action or pass whatever ordinances it shall deem
advisable or necessary at any time, including without limitation and as
permitted by law, any action or ordinance relating to recommendations made by
boards, commissions, and committees. All official meetings, including all
regular and special meetings, of all boards, commissions, and committees shall
be open to the public as provided by the Texas Open Meetings Act as amended, or
as otherwise specified by state law.
(Ord. No. 2702, §§ 12, 13, 2-12-98; Ord. No. 2991, § 5, 12-14-00; Ord. No.
3009, § 7, 2-22-01; Ord. No. 3019, § 4, 4-12-01; Ord. No. 3019, § 4, 4-12-01;
Ord. No. 3169, § 4, 11-14-02; Ord. No. 3197, § 2, 3-27-03, Ord No. 3402, § 4,
8-11-05; Ord No. 3569, §5, 3-27-08, Ord. No. 3689, §5, 5-13-10, Ord No. 4041,
§2, 2-25-16)
Sec. 4-105.   Attendance requirements; reporting of attendance.
(a)   All members of any board, commission, or committee shall be present at 75
percent of all scheduled meetings per calendar year. Absences shall not be
excused by any board, commission or committee member. Any person that is unable
to meet the attendance requirements shall automatically forfeit their
appointment for that board, commission or committee.
(b)   Each such board, commission, or committee shall maintain attendance
records for its members, and shall on a quarterly basis forward those
attendance records to the City Manager or the City Manager's designee for
review and tabulation.
(Ord. No. 2702, § 14, 2-12-98; Ord. No. 2991, § 6, 12-14-00)
Sec. 4-106.   Work plans.
Each board, commission, or committee shall annually prepare a work program
detailing its prospective activities for the ensuing year, and a written report
of its activities for the previous two years. The work program and written
report shall be prepared on a cycle set by the City Manager and shall be timely
submitted to the City Manager on completion. The City Manager shall then
forward such reports and work programs to the City Council. The report shall
include a review of the board, commission, or committee's mission, its
accomplishments and activities in general, the attendance records of its
membership, and any recommendations of requests deemed appropriate by the
board, commission, or committee. On a regular basis and at least once every two
years, the chairman of each city board, commission, or committee shall present
to the City Council at a regularly scheduled City Council work session a report
of the activities of the respective board, commission, or committee since the
previous such report or for the last two years, whichever period is shorter in
duration. The city staff and City Manager shall likewise present pertinent
information regarding the activities of such board, commission, or committee.
The City Council shall thereafter consider further actions regarding each such
board, commission, or committee including consolidation with other boards,
commissions, or committees; termination of the board, commission, or committee;
reappointments; changes to the structure, functions or responsibilities of the
board, commission, or committee; or other appropriate actions.
(Ord. No. 2991, § 7, 12-14-00)
Sec. 4-107.   Sunset provision.
All boards, commissions and committees are subject to Sunset review by the City
Council, as they may deem appropriate, every five years beginning January 1,
2001. This review shall be conducted by the City Council to examine the
purpose, attendance, activities or any other matter the City Council deems
appropriate regarding any board, commission or committee. The City Council may
order the dissolution of any board, commission or committee at any time the
City Council determines that the purposes of a board, commission or committee
have been fulfilled or should be abandoned. Dissolution shall be conducted by
an affirmative vote of the City Council by ordinance dissolving the board,
commission or committee.
(Ord. No. 2290, 3-25-93; Ord. No. 2991, § 8, 12-14-00)
Sec. 4-108.   Cultural Activities Advisory Commission.
(a)   There is hereby created a cultural activities advisory commission for the
city, which shall officially be known as the Cultural Activities Advisory
Commission.
(b)   Powers and duties
   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Cultural Activities Advisory Commission to
advise the City Council, and other such departments or divisions of the city as
appropriate, regarding the award of arts and culture grants in accordance with
any policy guidelines governing such grants, as such policy guidelines may now
or hereafter be adopted or amended by the City Council.
   (2)   Nothing contained herein shall in any manner affect the power of the
city to take whatever action or pass whatever ordinances it shall deem
advisable or necessary at any time, including without limitation, any action or
ordinance relating to arts and culture grants or the use of hotel/motel tax
money.
   (3)   In conjunction with the City's Cultural Arts Office, the Cultural
Activities Advisory Commission shall be responsible for the acquisition and
deaccession of public art on behalf of the City of Longview through
implementation of approved policies and procedures. Subject to policies and
procedures established by the City Council, the Cultural Activities Advisory
Commission may vote to approve artwork donation applications, vote to approve
artwork donation applications with comments, form a working group to review
artwork donation applications, or decline to approve artwork donation
applications. Subject to policies and procedures established by the City
Council, the Cultural Activities Advisory Commission may provide for the
deaccession of public artwork and establish processes for deaccession similar
to those provided for the donation of artwork.
(Ord. No. 3169, § 5, 11-14-02; Ord No. 3502, §5, 1-25-07; Ord No. 4342, §2, 1-
13-22)
Sec. 4-109.   Animal Shelter Advisory Committee.
(a)   There is hereby created an animal shelter advisory committee for the
city, pursuant to Texas Health and Safety Code, Section 823.005, as amended,
which shall officially be known as the Animal Shelter Advisory Committee.
(b)   Powers and duties
   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Shelter Advisory Committee to
assist animal shelters located in the city with compliance with Chapter 823 of
the Health and Safety Code, as amended.
   (2)   The advisory committee shall meet pursuant to Texas Health and Safety
Code, Section 823.005, as amended.
   (3)   Nothing contained herein shall in any manner affect the power of the
city to take whatever action or pass whatever ordinances it shall deem
advisable or necessary at any time relating to the regulation of animals or the
operation of animal shelters.
   (4)   Nothing contained in this section shall in any manner affect the power
of any group operating any animal shelter located in the city from conducting
business as permitted by law.
(Ord. No. 3169, § 5, 11-14-02; Ord No. 3502, §6, 1-25-07; Ord No. 3569, §6, 3-
27-08; Ord. No. 3729, § 4, 11-11-10)
Sec. 4-110.   Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3689, §6, 5-13-10)
Sec. 4-111.   Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3169, § 5, 11-14-02; Ord No. 3502, §8, 1-25-07; Ord No. 3569, §6, 3-
27-08)
Sec. 4-112.   Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3689, §7, 5-13-10)
Sec. 4-113.   Public Transportation Advisory Board.
(a)   There is hereby created a public transportation advisory board for the
city, which shall be officially known as the Public Transportation Advisory
Board.
(b)   Powers and duties
   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Public Transportation Advisory Board to
advise the City Council, and other such departments or divisions of the city as
appropriate, regarding public transportation planning, outreach, and
informational services for citizens, clients, and other identified needs
relating to public transit.
   (2)   Nothing contained herein shall in any manner affect the power of the
city to take whatever action or pass whatever ordinances it shall deem
advisable or necessary at any time, including without limitation, any action or
ordinance relating to public transportation planning outreach, informational
services and other identified needs relating to public transit.
(Ord. No. 3409, § 5, 9-8-05; Ord No. 3502, §10, 1-25-07)
Sec. 4-114.   Reserved.
(Ord No. 3502, §11, 1-25-07; Ord. No. 4357, §4, 4-14-22)
Sec. 4-115.   Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3615, §5, 10-9-08; Ord. No. 3859, § 5,87 2-14-13)
Sec. 4-116.   Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board.
(a)   There is hereby created an emergency medical service advisory board for
the city, which shall be officially known as the Emergency Medical Service
Advisory Board.
(b)   The Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board shall have the following
powers and duties:
   (1)   To advise the Longview City Council in matters dealing with the
Emergency Medical Service responsibilities of the Longview Fire Department,
including:
      (i)   Prioritization of financial and manpower investment;
      (ii)   Feasibility of advancement to higher levels of pre-hospital,
emergency medical care; and
      (iii)   Selection of technical equipment following comprehensive
investigation, evaluation, and, recommendation conducted by the Longview Fire
Department.
   (2)   To provide advice relating to maintenance of quality of service
rendered by the Emergency Medical Service of the Longview Fire Department;
   (3)   To advise and help promote the quality of training of personnel;
   (4)   To review, evaluate and provide advice regarding medical protocols
with reference to the delivery of care supplied by the Emergency Medical
Service of the Longview Fire Department, while aligning with the national
standard of care in conjunction with the discretion of the Longview Fire
Department Medical Director;
   (5)   To serve in an advocacy role to promote improvement in the Emergency
Medical Service;
   (6)   To provide advice regarding the formulation and implementation of
disaster planning for the City of Longview from a medical perspective (for
example, mass casualty events, epidemics, etc.);
   (7)   To conduct long-range planning for emergency medical needs of the City
of Longview;
   (8)   To provide advice about the regulation of non-emergency medical
transport within the City of Longview and about the enforcement and maintenance
of the existing city ordinance; and
   (9)   To evaluate and provide advice regarding issues pertaining to the
joint-operational status that exists between the Longview Fire Department, Good
Shepherd Medical Center, and Longview Regional Medical Center; provided,
however, that before evaluation of a complaint presented by any one of three
aforementioned entities, the complaint must be made in writing and presented to
the Fire Chief, EMS Section Chief, and Medical Director.
(c)   The nine (9) voting members of the Emergency Medical Service Advisory
Board shall be appointed by the Longview City Council and shall consist of the
following:
   (1)   One (1) physician (other than the Longview Fire Department's active
Medical Director) specializing in emergency medicine, nominated by the chief
executive office of Good Shepherd Medical Center or its successor hospital;
   (2)   One (1) physician (other than the Longview Fire Department's active
Medical Director) specializing in emergency medicine, nominated by the chief
executive office of Longview Regional Medical Center or its successor hospital;
   (3)   One (1) administrative representative who is not a physician and who
is nominated by the chief executive officer of Good Shepherd Medical Center or
its successor hospital;
   (4)   One (1) administrative representative who is not a physician and who
is nominated by the chief executive officer of Longview Regional Medical Center
or its successor hospital;
   (5)   Five (5) citizen representatives from the community at large, each one
impartial in regard to both of the two Longview hospitals (Good Shepherd
Medical Center and Longview Regional Medical Center).
(d)   The four (4) non-voting members of the Emergency Medical Service Advisory
Board shall consist of the following:
   (1)   One (1) City Council Liaison appointed by the Mayor;
   (2)   The Longview Fire Chief;
   (3)   The Section Chief of Emergency Medical Services of the Longview Fire
Department; and
   (4)   The physician contracted by the city serving in the capacity of
Medical Director for the Longview Fire Department.
(e)   The City Council, by majority vote, shall have the authority to remove
any member of the Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board from office
whenever, in the City Council's discretion, the best interests of the city
shall be served thereby.
(f)   The powers and duties of the Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board are
of an advisory nature only and the Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board
shall not have any powers or duties which conflict with or supersede the powers
and duties of the Longview Fire Chief, the appointed Medical Director for the
City of Longview, nationally recognized emergency medical standards of care, or
other city commissions or boards. Nothing contained herein shall in any manner
affect the power of the city to take whatever action or pass whatever
ordinances it shall deem advisable or necessary at any time, including without
limitation, any action or ordinance relating to emergency medical services.
Neither the Emergency Medical Service Advisory Board nor any member thereof
shall incur any financial liability in the name of the City of Longview.
(Ord. No. 3752, § 4, 3-24-11)
Sec. 4-117.   Longview Housing Authority Advisory Commission.
(a)   There is hereby created a housing advisory commission for the city, which
shall be officially known as the Longview Housing Authority Advisory
Commission.
(b)   The Longview Housing Authority Advisory Commission shall have the
following powers and duties;
   (1)   To advise the Longview City Council in matters dealing with Housing
Authority responsibilities of the Longview Housing Division:
   (2)   To Create strategic and systematic collaboration with Housing staff on
plans, processes and procedures addressing housing needs of low to moderate
income families and individuals of the community offered by the Longview
Housing Authority Division;
   (3)   To advise and help promote the quality of training of personnel;
   (4)   To facilitate communications to the community on programs available to
moderate and low income families and individuals;
   (5)   To promote improvement in the delivery of services offered:
   (6)   To provide advice regarding the formulation in implementation of
polices outlined by the Department of Housing and Urban Development; and
   (7)   To conduct long-range planning for housing and community development
needs of the City of Longview.
(c)   The Longview Housing Authority Advisory Commission shall consist of seven
(7) members consisting of representatives from the social service community,
finance/banking fields, business and at least one (1) member is a program
participant currently receiving services offered by the Longview Housing
Authority Division.
(d)   The City Council, by majority vote, shall have the authority to remove
any member of the Longview Housing Authority Advisory Commission from office
whenever, in the City Council's discretion, the best interest of the city shall
be served thereby.
(e)   The powers and duties of the Longview Housing Authority Commission are of
any advisory nature only. Nothing contained herein shall in any manner affect
the power of the city to take whatever action or pass whatever ordinances it
shall deem advisable or necessary at any time, including without limitation,
any action or ordinance relating to housing or community development services."
(Ord. No. 3890, § 4, 9-26-13; ; Ord. No. 4484, § 5, 3-28-24)
Sec. 4-118. Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee.
(a)   There is hereby created a long-term planning advisory committee for the
city, which shall be offically known as the Comprehensive Plan Advisory
Committee.
(b)   The Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee shall have the following powers
and duties:
   (1)   To advise the Longview City Council and other boards and commissions
in matters dealing with the Longview Comprehensive Plan;
   (2)   To regularly review the progress status of the goals, objectives, and
strategies of the Longview Comprehensive Plan; and
   (3)   To make recommendations to the Longview City Council and other boards
and commissions conderning updates to the Longview Comprehensive Plan.
(c)   The Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee shall consist of twelve (12)
members appointed by the City Council. In addition to the twelve members
appointed by the City Council, one (1) City Council member and the chairperson
of the Planning and Zoning Commission shall serve as ex officio members of the
Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee. Said ex officio members may participate
in all meetings of the Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee and shall be
voting members of the committee. The City Council member who is an ex-officio
member of the Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee shall be appointed annually
by the Mayor and shall serve as chairperson of the committee.
(d)   The City Council shall have the authority, with or without cause, to
remove, any member of the Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee who was
appointed to the committee by the City Council.
(e)   The powers and duties of the Comprehensive Plan Advisory Committee are of
any advisory nature only. Nothing contained herein shall in any manner affect
the power of the city to take whatever action or pass whatever ordinances it
shall deem advisable or necessary at any time, including without limitation,
any action or ordinance relating to the Longview Comprehensive Plan or to the
Future Land Use Map and Development Goals.
(f)   Sec.4-102(d) shall not apply to the Comprehensive Plan Advisory
Committee."
(Ord. No. 3985, § 4, 4-23-15; Ord. No. 4063, § 3, 7-28-16; Ord. No. 4357, § 4,
4-14-22; Ord. No. 4465, § 4, 9-21-23)
Sec. 4-119. Senior Advisory Committee.
(a)   There is hereby created an advisory committee for the city, which shall
be officially known as the Senior Advisory Committee.
(b)   The Senior Advisory Committee shall have the following powers and duties:
   (1)   To advise city staff, the Longview City Council and other boards and
commissions of the city in matters dealing with the Green Street Recreation
Center programs, policies and operations;
   (2)   To develop and review goals, objectives, and strategies for
improvements to senior programs and services; and
   (3)   To analyze the use of existing facilities by seniors and the future
needs of seniors and to make recommendations to city staff, the Longview City
Council and other boards and commissions of the city with regard to same.
(c)   The Senior Advisory Committee shall consist of seven (7) members
appointed by the City Council.
(d)   The City Council shall have the authority to remove, with or without
cause, any member of the Senior Advisory Committee.
(e)   The powers and duties of the Senior Advisory Committee are of an advisory
nature only. Nothing contained herein shall in any manner affect the power of
the city to take whatever action or pass whatever ordinances it shall deem
advisable or necessary at any time, including wihtout limitation, any action or
ordinance relating to any subject referenced in this section.
(Ord. No. 4229, § 4, 7-25-19)
Sec. 4-120. Reserved.
 
Article VIII.
Management of City Records
Sec. 4-121.    Municipal records, city records, or records.
All documents, papers, letters, books, maps, photographs, sound or video
recordings, microfilm, magnetic tape, electronic media, or other information
recording media, regardless of physical form or characteristic and regardless
of whether public access to it is open or restricted under the laws of the
state, created or received by the city or any of its officers or employees
pursuant to law or in the transaction of public business are hereby declared to
be the records of the city and shall be created, maintained, and disposed of in
accordance with the provisions of this article or procedures authorized by it
and in no other manner. The term does not include:
(1)   extra identical copies of documents created only for convenience of
reference or research by officers or employees of the local government;
(2)   notes, journals, diaries, and similar documents created by an officer or
employee of the local government for the officer's or employee's personal
convenience;
(3)   blank forms;
(4)   stocks of publications;
(5)   library and museum materials acquired solely for the purposes of
reference or display; or
(6)   copies of documents in any media furnished to members of the public to
which they are entitled under Chapter 424, Acts of the 63rd Legislature,
Regular Session, 1973 (Article 5252-17a, Vernon's Texas Civil Statutes), or
other state law.
Sec. 4-122.   Additional definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Department head. The term “department head” shall mean the officer who by
ordinance, order, or administrative policy is in charge of an office of the
city that creates or receives records.
   Director and librarian. The term “director and librarian” shall mean the
executive and administrative officer of the Texas State Library and Archives
Commission.
   Essential record. The term “essential record” shall mean any record of the
city necessary to the resumption or continuation of operations of the city in
an emergency or disaster, to the recreation of the legal and financial status
of the city, or to the protection and fulfillment of obligations to the people
of the state.
   Permanent record. The term “permanent record” shall mean any record of the
city for which the retention period on a records control schedule is given as
permanent.
   Records control schedule. The term “records control schedule” shall mean a
document prepared by or under the authority of the records management officer
listing the records maintained by the city, their retention periods, and other
records disposition information that the records management program may
require.
   Records liaison officers. The term “records liaison officers” shall mean the
persons designated under Section 4-130 of this article.
   Records management. The term “records management” shall mean the application
of management techniques to the creation, use, maintenance, retention,
preservation, and disposal of records for the purposes of reducing the costs
and improving the efficiency of record keeping. The term includes the
development of records control schedules, the management of filing and
information retrieval systems, the protection of essential and permanent
records, the economical and space-effective storage of inactive records,
control over the creation and distribution of forms, reports, and
correspondence, and the management of micrographics and electronic and other
records storage systems.
   Records management committee. The term “records management committee” shall
mean the committee established in Section 4-126 of this article.
   Records management officer. The term “records management officer” shall mean
the person designated in Section 4-125 of this article.
   Records management plan. The term “records management plan” shall mean the
plan developed under Section 4-127 of this article.
   Retention period. The term “retention period” shall mean the minimum time
that must pass after the creation, recording, or receipt of a record, or the
fulfillment of certain actions associated with a record, before it is eligible
for destruction.
(Ord. No. 3525, § 4, 6-14-07)
Sec. 4-123.   Municipal records declared public property.
All municipal records as defined in Section 4-121 of this article are hereby
declared to be the property of the city. No municipal official or employee has,
by virtue of his or her position, any personal or property right to such
records even though he or she may have developed or compiled them. The
unauthorized destruction, removal from files, or use of such records is
prohibited.
Sec. 4-124.   Policy.
It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city to provide for efficient,
economical, and effective controls over the creation, distribution,
organization, maintenance, use, and disposition of all municipal records
through a comprehensive system of integrated procedures for the management of
records from their creation to their ultimate disposition, consistent with the
requirements of the Texas Local Government Records Act and accepted records
management practice.
Sec. 4-125.   Designation of records management officer.
The City Secretary, and the successive holders of said office, shall serve as
records management officer for the city. As provided by state law, each
successive holder of the office shall file his or her name with the director
and librarian of the Texas State Library within 30 days of the initial
designation or of taking up the office, as applicable.
Sec. 4-126.   Establishment of records management committee; duties.
A records management committee consisting of those city officials designated by
the City Manager is hereby established. The committee shall:
(1)   assist the records management officer in the development of policies and
procedures governing the records management program;
(2)   review the performance of the program on a regular basis and propose
changes and improvements if needed;
(3)   review and approve records control schedules submitted by the records
management officer;
(4)   give final approval to the destruction of records in accordance with
approved records control schedules; and,
(5)   actively support and promote the records management program throughout
the city.
Sec. 4-127.   Records management plan to be developed; approval of plan;
authority of plan.
(a)   The records management officer and the records management committee shall
develop a records management plan for the city for submission to the City
Manager for review and approval. Subsequently, said plan shall be submitted to
the City Council for their formal approval. The plan must contain policies and
procedures designed to reduce the costs and improve the efficiency of
recordkeeping, to adequately protect the essential records of the municipality,
and to properly preserve those records of the municipality that are of
historical value. The plan must be designed to enable the records management
officer to carry out his or her duties prescribed by state law and this article
effectively.
(b)   Once approved by the City Council the records management plan shall be
binding on all offices, departments, divisions, programs, commissions, bureaus,
boards, committees, or similar entities of the city and records shall be
created, maintained, stored, microfilmed, or disposed of in accordance with the
plan.
(c)   State law relating to the duties, other responsibilities, or
recordkeeping requirements of a department head do not exempt the department
head or the records in the department head's care from the application of this
article and the records management plan adopted under it and may not be used by
the department head as a basis for refusal to participate in the records
management program of the city.
Sec. 4-128.   Duties of records management officer.
In addition to other duties assigned in this article, the records management
officer shall:
(1)   administer the records management program and provide assistance to
department heads in its implementation;
(2)   plan, formulate, and prescribe records disposition policies, systems,
standards, and procedures;
(3)   in cooperation with department heads identify essential records and
establish a disaster plan for each municipal office and department to ensure
maximum availability of the records in order to re-establish operations quickly
and with minimum disruption and expense;
(4)   develop procedures to ensure the permanent preservation of the
historically valuable records of the city;
(5)   establish standards for filing and storage equipment and for
recordkeeping supplies;
(6)   study the feasibility of and, if appropriate, establish a uniform filing
system and a forms design and control system for the city;
(7)   provide records management advice and assistance to all municipal
departments by preparation of a manual or manuals of procedure and policy and
by on-site consultation;
(8)   monitor records retention schedules and administrative rules issued by
the Texas State Library and Archives Commission to determine if the records
management program and the municipality's records control schedules are in
compliance with state regulations;
(9)   disseminate to the City Council and department heads information
concerning state laws and administrative rules relating to local government
records;
(10)   instruct records liaison officers and other personnel in policies and
procedures of the records management plan and their duties in the records
management program;
(11)   direct records liaison officers or other personnel in the conduct of
records inventories in preparation for the development of records control
schedules as required by state law and this article;
(12)   ensure that the maintenance, preservation, microfilming, destruction, or
other disposition of municipal records is carried out in accordance with the
policies and procedures of the records management program with due regard for:
   a.   the duties and responsibilities imposed by state law, and
   b.   the confidentiality of information in records to which access is
restricted by law;
(13)   maintain records on the volume of records destroyed under approved
records control schedules, the volume of records microfilmed or stored
electronically, and the estimated cost and space savings as the result of such
disposal or disposition; and
(14)   report annually to the City Manager on the implementation of the records
management plan in each department of the city, including summaries of the
statistical and fiscal data compiled under subsection (13).
Sec. 4-129.   Duties and responsibilities of department heads.
In addition to other duties assigned in this article, department heads shall;
(1)   cooperate with the records management officer in carrying out the
policies and procedures established in the city for the efficient and
economical management of records and in carrying out the requirements of this
article;
(2)   adequately document the transaction of government business and the
services, programs, and duties for which the department head or his or her
staff are responsible; and,
(3)   maintain the records in his or her care and carry out their preservation,
microfilming, destruction, or other disposition only in accordance with the
policies and procedures of the records management program of the city and the
requirements of this article.
Sec. 4-130.   Designation of records liaison officers.
To the extent deemed appropriate by the City Manager, each department head may
be required to designate a member of his or her staff to serve as Records
Liaison Officer for the implementation of the records management program in the
department. If the City Manager or department head determines that in the best
interests of the records management program more than one records liaison
officer should be designated for a department, the department head may
designate the additional number of records liaison officers. Persons designated
as records liaison officers should be thoroughly familiar with all the records
created and maintained by the department and shall have access to the records
of the city maintained by the department as necessary to fulfill the
responsibilities of records liaison officer. A department head may serve as
records liaison officer for his or her department.
Sec. 4-131.   Duties and responsibilities of records liaison officers.
In addition to other duties assigned in this article, records liaison officers
shall:
(1)   conduct or supervise the conduct of inventories of the records of the
department in preparation for the development of records control schedules;
(2)   in cooperation with the records management officer coordinate and
implement the policies and procedures of the records management program in
their departments; and
(3)   disseminate information to department staff concerning the records
management program.
Sec. 4-132.   Records control schedules to be developed; approval; filing with
state.
(a)   The records management officer, in cooperation with department heads and
records liaison officers, shall prepare records control schedules on a
department by department basis listing all records created or received by the
department and the retention period for each record. Records control schedules
shall also contain such other information regarding the disposition of
municipal records as the records management plan may require.
(b)   Each records control schedule shall be monitored and amended as needed by
the records management officer on a regular basis to ensure that it is in
compliance with records retention schedules issued by the state and that it
continues to reflect the recordkeeping procedures and needs of the department
and the records management program of the city.
(c)   Before its adoption a records control schedule or amended schedule for a
department must be approved by the department head, and a majority vote of the
members of the records management committee, the City Attorney, and the City
Manager.
(d)   Before its adoption a records control schedule must be submitted to and
accepted for filing by the director and librarian as provided by state law. If
a schedule is not accepted for filing, the schedule shall be amended to make it
acceptable for filing. The records management officer shall submit the records
control schedules to the director and librarian.
Sec. 4-133.   Implementation of records control schedules; destruction of
records under schedule.
(a)   A records control schedule for a department that has been approved and
adopted under Section 4-127 shall be implemented by department heads and
records liaison officers according to the policies and procedures of the
records management plan.
(b)   A record whose retention period has expired on a records control schedule
shall be destroyed unless an open records request is pending on the record, the
subject matter of the record is pertinent to a pending law suit, or the
department head requests in writing to the records management committee that
the record be retained for an additional period.
(c)   Prior to the destruction of a record under an approved records control
schedule, authorization for the destruction must be obtained by the records
management officer from the records management committee and the City Attorney.
Sec. 4-134.   Destruction of unscheduled records.
A record that has not yet been listed on an approved records control schedule
may be destroyed if its destruction has been approved in the same manner as a
record destroyed under an approved schedule and the records management officer
has submitted to and received back from the director and librarian an approved
destruction authorization request.
Sec. 4-135.   Records center.
A records center, developed pursuant to the plan required by Section 4-127,
shall be under the direct control and supervision of the records management
officer. Policies and procedures regulating the operations and use of the
records center shall be contained in the records management plan developed
under Section 4-127.
Sec. 4-136.   Micrographics, electronic storage or optical disk storage
systems.
Unless a records storage system, such as micrographics, electronic storage or
optical disk storage system, is specifically exempted by order of the City
Manager, all such systems for the storage of records will be centralized and
under the direct supervision of the records management officer. The records
management plan will establish policies and procedures for the microfilming or
other storage of city records, including policies to ensure that all storage is
done in accordance with standards and procedures for the storage of local
government records established in rules of the Texas State Library and Archives
Commission. The plan will also establish criteria for determining the
eligibility of records for storage in a micrographics, electronic storage or
optical disk storage system.
(Ord. No. 2113, 12-13-90)
Sec. 4-137.   Charge for public information.
(a)    Each person requesting copies of public information shall pay a fee for
such copies, said fee to be calculated in accordance with the rules promulgated
by the Attorney General of Texas or the successor agency governing charges for
public information. Where appropriate under the rules of the Attorney General
of Texas or the successor agency and the laws of the State of Texas, a charge
shall also be imposed for access to public information.
(b)    The City Manager or his designee may provide copies of public
information or access to public information free of charge or at a reduced
charge if he determines that waiver or reduction of the charge is in the public
interest because providing the copy of the information primarily benefits the
general public. In addition, the City Manager or his designee may waive the
charge for copies of or access to public information if the cost of processing
the collection charge will exceed the amount of the charge.
(Ord. No. 2864, § 2, 10-26-99; Ord. No. 3525, § 5, 6-14-07)
Sec. 4-138.   Charge for municipal court records.
(a)    Each person requesting copies of municipal court records shall pay a fee
for such copies, said fee to be calculated in accordance with the rules
promulgated by the Attorney General of Texas or the successor agency governing
charges for public information. Where appropriate under the rules of the
Attorney General of Texas or successor agency and the laws of the State of
Texas, a charge shall also be imposed for access to municipal court records.
(b)    Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this section, a person shall not be
charged for copies of municipal court records requested in conjunction with a
municipal court case to which that person is a party. For purposes of this
section, a person is a party to a municipal court case if the person is a
complainant or defendant in the case or if the person is a representative of a
complainant or defendant in the case.
(c)    The judge of the municipal court may provide copies of municipal court
records or access to municipal court records free of charge or at a reduced
charge if he determines that waiver or reduction of the charge is in the public
interest because providing the copy of the information primarily benefits the
general public. In addition, the judge may waive the charge for copies of or
access to municipal court records if the cost of processing the collection
charge will exceed the amount of the charge. Finally, the judge may waive or
reduce the charge for copies of or access to municipal court records if he
determines such waiver or reduction to be in the interest of justice.
(d)    The clerk of the municipal court may waive the charge for copies of or
access to municipal court records if the cost of processing the collection
charge will exceed the amount of the charge.
(Ord. No. 2864, § 3, 10-26-99; Ord No. 3525, § 6, 6-14-07)
Secs. 4-139 - 4-160. Reserved.
Article IX.
Authority, Duties, and Responsibilities of the City Manager
Sec. 4-161. General.
The City Manager shall be authorized to exercise all authority and perform all
responsibilities and duties delegated to the City Manager by state law, the
city Charter, and all applicable city ordinances, resolutions, and official
actions of City Council.
Sec. 4-162. Cumulative of other authority, duties, and responsibilities.
That any authority, duties, and responsibilities specifically delegated to the
City Manager by this article shall be construed as cumulative of the authority,
duties, and responsibilities previously delegated as set out in Section 4-161
herein, and unless explicitly provided to the contrary, shall not be construed
to limit such authority, duties, and responsibilities.
Sec. 4-163. Contracting authority.
(a)    The City Manager, or his lawful designee as shall be designated in
writing by the City Manager, shall be and is hereby authorized to approve on
behalf of the city without further action by the City Council, the following:
   (1)   progress payments on engineering and construction contracts, provided
the award of any such contract was originally made by City Council and provided
approval of the final payment, acceptance of the project, and release of
retainage shall be reserved unto the City Council;
   (2)   engineering contracts, provided such contracts are for work
specifically authorized in the current fiscal year budget, provided the
contractor has been selected in accordance with state law and city Charter, and
provided the contract for such services is in writing and in a form acceptable
to the City Attorney;
   (3)   demolition contracts funded by state or federal funds or by funds
authorized in the current fiscal year budget, provided such contracts are
awarded to the lowest and best responsible bidder pursuant to competitive bids
received in accordance with state law and city Charter, and provided the City
Council has authorized beforehand the acceptance of bids for such demolition
projects;
   (4)   pipeline licenses, provided each such license is in a form acceptable
to the City Attorney;
   (5)   licenses for the short-term use of city property, when such use has
been approved previously by City Council on same or similar terms, such use
does not require the expenditure of public funds, and such license is in
writing and in a form acceptable to the City Attorney;
   (6)   renewal of leases of city-owned property, provided such leases are
exercised in accordance with state law, are prepared and approved by the City
Attorney, and do not require the expenditure of public funds;
   (7)   sale of publicly-owned personalty at public auction, provided such
sale is otherwise conducted in accordance with state law;
   (8)   an agreement not to disclose proprietary information, provided the
agreement acknowledges that said information may be subject to the requirements
of the Texas Public Information Act (Chapter 552, V.T.C.A);
   (9)   any expenditure, contact or agreement requiring the expenditure of
$50,000.00 or less in municipal funds that is in accordance with the then-
current fiscal year budget;
   (10)   any change order,provided the underlying contract was lawfully
approved and the change order otherwise complies with all requirements of law,
including without limitation the requirements of Section 252.048 of the Texas
Local Government Code, as amended;
   (11)   the acceptance or execution of any documents (including, without
limitation, any deeds or other instruments needed for the exchange of any city
easement for an easement of equal or greater value) necessary for either of the
following reasons, provided that the expenditure of city funds is not required
and any transactions so approved can be accomplished in accordance with all
applicable laws:
      (a)   to correct any error in surveying, error in the actual placement of
facilities, or scrivener error that affects a city easement (including any such
error in any plat or legal description of the easement), or
      (b)   to correct any inconsistency between an approved plat and a
description of a related on-site or off-site easement that is filed in the real
property records of the County Clerk;
   (12)   any agreement for the surface use of city property for the drilling
of, for the operation of or for access to oil or gas wells, when such agreement
does not require the expenditure of city funds, such agreement is with an
entity that has the right to access the minerals lying underneath said
property, such agreement does not involve the lease or other conveyance of any
mineral rights owned by the city, and such agreement does not grant or convey
any permanent easement or other permanent freehold interest in or on city
property;
   (13)   any agreement for the use of city property for drilling and operating
wells intended to test for, monitor or remediate underground contamination or
groundwater contamination, when such agreement does not require the expenditure
of city funds, such agreement does not involve the lease or other conveyance of
any mineral rights owned by the city, and such agreement does not grant or
convey any permanent easement or other permanent freehold interest in or on
city property;
   (14)   any expenditure, contract or agreement for the employment of
temporary laborers as garbage collection workers, provided that said
expenditure, contract or agreement does not require the amendment of the then-
current fiscal year budget;
   (15)   any expenditure, contract or agreement for any co-sponsored event at
a City-owned facility, including without limitation, any expenditure, contract
or agreement involving the sharing of proceeds between the City and other co-
sponsors of the event, provided that said expenditure, contract or agreement
does not require the amendment of the then-current fiscal year budget;
   (16)   Any waiver or dismissal of any penalties and interest (or any portion
thereof) resulting from a lien imposed by the city pursuant to any provision of
the Longview City Code or imposed by the city as a result of the violation of
any provision of the Longview City Code;
   (17)   Any expenditure, contract or agreement that requires an expenditure
of more than $50,000 but not more than $250,000 in municipal funds, provided
that all of the following are true:
(i) the city is not required by state or federal law to conduct a competitive
purchasing process for said expenditure, contract or agreement;
(ii) said expenditure, contract or agreement is in accordance with the then-
current fiscal year budget;
(iii) the City Manager has posted written notice of said expenditure, contract
or agreement at city hall and on the city website at least 5 calendar days in
advance of approving said expenditure, contract or agreement;
(iv) the City Manager has provided written notice of said expenditure, contract
or agreement to each City Council Member at least 5 calendar days in advance of
approving said expenditure, contract or agreement; and
(v) no City Council Member has contacted the City Manager before the end of the
notice period described in subsection (a)(17)(iv) above and requested in
writting that said expenditure, contract or agreement be placed on the agenda
for City Council consideration.
(b)    To be effective, all such approvals as authorized herein shall be in
writing and in such form as shall be acceptable to the City Attorney.
(c)    That by virtue of the City Manager’s approval as authorized herein, and
provided such approval is exercised by the City Manager in strict conformance
with this article, the city shall thereby be legally bound and obligated with
respect to any documents so approved.
(Ord. No. 2468, 5-24-95; Ord. No. 2921, § 2, 4-27-00; Ord. No. 3165, § 4, 10-
24-02; Ord. No. 3330, 7-29-04; Ord. No. 3379, § 2, 3-24-05; Ord. No. 3394, § 2,
6-23-05; Ord. No. 3394, §2, 6-23-05; Ord. No. 3525, § 7, 6-14-07; Ord. No.
3544, § 2, 9-27-07; Ord. No 3855, § 3, 1-10-13; Ord. No. 3900, § 3, 11-14-13;
Ord. No. 4154, § 2, 3-8-18; Ord. No 4247, § 4, 12-12-19)
Sec. 4-164.   Acceptance of conveyance or acquisition by eminent domain where
consideration is $10,000.00 or less.
(a)   The City Manager is authorized to accept and approve on behalf of the
city any legal instrument executed by any person, which grants, gives, conveys,
quitclaims, or releases any right in real property, whether such right is fee
simple or any lesser title, estate, or right, where the total consideration to
be paid by the city for the title, estate, or right is $10,000.00 or less.
(b)   In addition to the authority provided by subsection (a) of this section,
the City Manager is authorized to acquire any title, estate, or right in real
property by settlement, acceptance of a commissioner's award, or payment of a
court judgment if:
   (1)   the City Council has previously authorized eminent domain proceedings
on the real property; and
   (2)   the total consideration to be paid by the city for the title, estate,
or right in the real property is $10,000.00 or less.
(c)   Any grant, gift, conveyance, quitclaim, release, settlement, acceptance
of a commissioner's award, or payment of a court judgment mentioned in this
section must be approved by:
   (1)   the head of the city department concerned;
   (2)   the City Attorney; and
   (3)   the city Finance Director, if the amount of cash consideration to be
paid by the city exceeds $10.00.
(Ord. No. 3214, § 2, 5-8-03)
Sec. 4-165.   Approval of claims.
The City Manager of the City of Longview shall make settlement of claims
(except workers compensation claims or claims covered by insurance) in the
following manner:
(a)   in cases where the claim is $10,000.00 or less, the Risk Manager of the
City of Longview shall have full authority.
(b)   in cases where the claim is more than $10,000.00 but less than
$25,000.00, the City Manager of the City of Longview shall have full authority.
(c)   in all claims where the City Manager is alleged to be primarily a
responsible party under the claim, the City Council's approval or rejection
shall be secured in an open meeting of the City Council as required by the
Texas Open Meetings Law.
(d)   in cases where the claim is $25,000.00 or more, the City Manager shall
submit the claim to the City Council for approval or rejection in an open
meeting of the City Council as required by the Texas Open Meetings Law.
(Ord. No. 3214, § 3, 5-8-03)
Sec. 4-166   Acceptance of donations where value is $10,000.00 or less.
(a)   The City Manager is authorized to accept on behalf of the city any
donation, including but not limited to, monetary gifts, equipment, and personal
services with a value of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less.
(b)   All donations, including but not limited to, monetary gifts, equipment,
and personal services over ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in value must be
approved by the City Council before acceptance.
(c)   The City Manager is authorized to develop procedures and guidelines for
approval, receipt, and proper acceptance of donations to the city.
(d)   This section does not pertain to donations involving real property.
(Ord. No. 3746, § 2, 3-10-11)
Secs. 4-167- 4-200   Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3746, § 2, 3-10-11)
Article X.
Health Authority
Sec. 4-201.   Appointment of health authority; qualifications; duties and
responsibilities.
(a)   The City Council may appoint a health authority to administer state and
local public health laws within the city limits of the City of Longview in
accordance with the authority granted under the Local Public Health
Reorganization Act (Chapter 121 of the Texas Health and Safety Code, as
amended, or its successor statute or statutes).
(b)   In order to be eligible for appointment as the health authority, a person
must possess all of the qualifications and comply with all of the requirements
set forth in any applicable Texas or federal law relating to a health
authority, including without limitation the Local Public Health Reorganization
Act (Chapter 121 of the Texas Health and Safety Code, as amended, or its
successor statute or statutes). The health authority must maintain said
qualifications and compliance with said requirements during the health
authority's entire tenure in office.
(c)   The health authority is responsible to carry out all the duties of the
health authority and exercise all powers and authority of the health authority
as said duties, powers and authority are set forth in Texas and federal law,
including but not limited to the Local Public Health Reorganization Act
(Chapter 121 of the Texas Health and Safety Code, as amended, or its successor
statute or statutes) and any other law pertaining to a health authority as
defined in the aforesaid Local Public Health Reorganization Act.
(Ord. No. 3286, § 9, 1-22-04)
Article XI.
National Incident Management System
Sec. 4-211.    National Incident Management System adopted.
The National Incident Management System (NIMS) is hereby adopted throughout the
City of Longview to prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to, and recover
from incidents.
Sec. 4-212.   Implementation.
(a)   Point of contact. The City Manager, or a person disignated in writing by
the City Manager, is hereby disgnated as the point of contact (POC) to serve as
the principal coordinator for the implementatin of NIMS for the City of
Longview. The POC shall ensure tht the provisions of this article are
implemented in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws,
rules, regulations, procedures, and guidance, including without limitation any
and all rules, regulations and guidance issued by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA).
(b)   NIMS training. All incident personnel of the City of Longview shall
receive pertinent NIMS training in alignment with the NIMS Training Program.
The POC shall be responsible for overseeing the development, implementation,
and regular updating of NIMS training guidance for the City of Longview that
ensures incident personnel receive pertinent NIMS training. The POC shall
ensure that copies of said guidance are submitted to the appropriate federal
and state agencies in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations
and procedures.
(c)    NIMS Implementation Objectives. The NIMS Implementation Objectives, as
the same may be from time to time amended by the appropriate authority, are
hereby adopted, and the POC shall be responsible for ensuring the City of
Longview's compliance with said objectives.
Sec. 4-213.    Grant compliance. 
The POC shall be responsible for overseeing and ensuring compliance with the
conditions and requirements of all federal preparedness grant awards received
by the City of Longview. Such responsibilities shall include, but not be
limited to, the development, implementation, and submission of policies,
procedures, guidance, lists, and reports related to or required by any such
grant award."
(Ord. No. 4290, § 2, 12-10-20)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              
Chapters 5 - 6
Reserved
Chapter 7
Aircraft
Sec.
7-1.   Defined.
Sec.
7-2.   Altitude limitations.
Sec.
7-3.   Certain type of flights may be authorized by City Council.
Sec.
7-4.   Dropping objects from aircraft.
Sec.
7-5.   Use of loudspeakers on aircraft.
Sec.
7-6.   Operation of defective aircraft; flying while intoxicated.
Sec. 7-1. Defined.
Any vehicle or machine capable of flying and capable of carrying a person in
such flight.
(Ord. No. 73, § 1, 2-10-48)
Sec. 7-2. Altitude limitations.
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or fly any aircraft over the
city at a lower altitude than 1,500 feet from the earth's surface, save and
except as provided by Section 7-3, and no person shall establish or maintain or
operate any landing place for aircraft within the corporate limits of the city,
except upon written permit of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 73, § 2, 2-10-48)
Sec. 7-3. Certain type of flights may be authorized by City Council.
On special occasions and for the purpose of exhibition, educational purposes,
photographer's work or aerial surveys, the City Council may authorize such
exhibitions or flights to be conducted under its direction; provided, however,
that in no case shall any aircraft operator perform any acrobatic feats or what
is commonly called "stunts" in any aircraft giving any exhibition or otherwise
unless specifically authorized in writing by the City Council.
(Ord. No. 73, § 3, 2-10-48; Ord. No. 3525, § 9, 6-14-07)
Sec. 7-4. Dropping objects from aircraft.
It shall be unlawful for any person to release or throw any object or article
from any aircraft flying over the city, or to release any such object or
article from any flying aircraft in such manner that such object or article
will fall within the corporate limits of the city, except when such action or
actions be necessary in emergencies.
(Ord. No. 73, § 4, 2-10-48)
Sec. 7-5. Use of loudspeakers on aircraft.
It shall be unlawful to use a loudspeaker or other sound or noise making device
in or on any aircraft flying over the city for advertising or any other
purpose.
(Ord. No. 73, § 5, 2-10-48)
Sec. 7-6. Operation of defective aircraft; flying while intoxicated.
No person shall knowingly operate any aircraft above the city, or give any
exhibition of flying or otherwise, while such aircraft is in a defective
condition, on account of which the same is likely to cause any accident or
injury to person or property, nor shall any person operate any aircraft over
the city at any time unless such person is fully capable of handling and
controlling such machine so operated, and it shall also be unlawful for any
person while intoxicated, or under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
drugs of any nature, to operate any aircraft above the city.
(Ord. No. 73, § 6, 210-48)
Chapters 8 - 9
Reserved
Chapter 10
Alcoholic Beverages
Sec.
10-1.   License fees and taxes.
Sec.
10-2.   Terms and conditions of license for malt liquors.
Sec.
10-3.   Privileges granted by issuance of permits authorized by chapter.
Sec.
10-4.   Certain locations prohibited.
Sec.
10-5.   Penalty.
Sec.
10-6.   Sale of beer in retail establishments.
Sec.
10-7.   Reserved.
Sec.
10-8.   Late-hour possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
Sec.
10-9.   Late-hour sale, delivery, possession and consumption of beer and wine.
Sec. 10-1. License fees and taxes.
It is the intention and purpose of this chapter to levy an occupation tax of
one-half of what the legislature has levied for the purpose of the state, and
if the provisions of this chapter do not specifically name and mention any
character of permit, or license, for which the city is authorized under the
Texas Liquor Control Act and the constitution to levy and collect a license fee
and occupation tax, then such fee and occupation tax is hereby levied and the
applicable license is hereby authorized to be issued.
(Code 1943, Art. 34-4)
Sec. 10-2. Terms and conditions of license for malt liquors.
(a)   Any license issued under the terms of this chapter, except "branch
license" and "temporary license", specifically provided for in the Texas Liquor
Control Act, shall terminate one year from the date issued, and no license
shall be issued for a longer term than one year.
(b)   A separate license fee shall be required from every place of business
where the business of manufacturing, importing or selling beer is conducted.
(c)   No license issued hereunder shall be assignable by the holder thereof to
any other person; provided, that any holder of a license may change his place
of business designated in such license upon compliance with the terms of said
Texas Liquor Control Act, and after notation has been made thereon by the
assessor and collector of taxes of the city, and upon payment of a fee of $1.00
to the assessor and collector of taxes of the city.
(d)   No licensee shall obtain any refund upon the surrender or nonuse of any
license for the manufacture, distribution, importation or sale of beer unless
such licensee is prevented from continuing to do business under such license by
virtue of a local option election.
(e)   No person shall conduct as owner or part-owner thereof any place of
business engaged in the manufacture, distribution, importation or sale of beer
except under the name to which the license covering such place of business is
issued.
(f)   Every license issued prior to April 15, 1943, authorizing the
manufacture, distribution or sale of beer shall remain in force until the date
of its expiration, but the licensee thereunder shall hold such license as fully
subject to all the provisions of this chapter, including but not limited to the
cancellation or suspension thereof for cause, as any license that may be issued
on or after the effective date thereof.
(Code 1943, Art. 34-5)
Sec. 10-3. Privileges granted by issuance of permits authorized by chapter.
Upon the payment of the applicable tax or fee prescribed by this chapter to the
assessor and collector of taxes and exhibition to him of a permit duly issued
by the state to the applicant or person paying such tax or fee, the assessor
and collector of taxes shall, in the name of the city, issue and deliver to
such applicant or person a permit to engage in business in the city of the
character described in and authorized by the permit from the state held by such
applicant or person and the permit so issued in the name of the city shall
authorize the conduct of such business upon the premises described in the
permit from the state and shall remain in force only so long as such permit
from the state remains in force.
(Code 1943, Art. 34-6)
Sec. 10-4. Certain locations prohibited.
No license or permit of any kind provided for under this chapter shall be
issued to any dealer or person engaged in the handling of alcoholic beverages
as defined in the Texas Liquor Control Act where the place of business of any
such dealer is within 300 feet of any church, school or other educational
institution, measurements to be made along the property line of the street
fronts and from door to front door in a direct line across street intersections
where they occur.
(Code 1943, Art. 34-7)
Sec. 10-5. Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to pay any tax or fee prescribed
by this chapter, and secure a permit as prescribed in Section 10-3 hereof
before engaging in any business for which the payment of any such fee and
securing of any such permit is required by the terms of this chapter, or who
shall violate any portion of this chapter, or who shall engage in any such
business without holding an unrevoked or unexpired permit from the city
authorizing the same, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. In addition
thereto the city license shall be revoked by the judge of the municipal court
or the City Council, or by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Code 1943, Art. 34-8)
Sec. 10-6. Sale of beer in retail establishments.
(a)   The retail sale of beer, as defined by the Texas Liquor Control Act, in a
lawful container direct to the consumer, but not resale and not to be opened
and consumed on or near the premises, may be made in any retail establishment
within the boundaries of the city, if the owner or operator of such
establishment has a valid retail dealers off-premises license issued under and
by virtue of the Texas Liquor Control Act.
(b)   The retail sale of beer shall not be made in any retail establishment in
the city, unless the owner or operator of such establishment has a valid retail
dealers off-premises license issued under and by virtue of the Texas Liquor
Control Act.
(c)   The owner or operator of any retail establishment wherein beer is sold,
except liquor stores, shall not use display advertising on the premises
relating to the sale of beer.
(Ord. No. 396, § 1-3, 7-12-60)
Sec. 10-7. Reserved.
Sec. 10-8. Late-hour possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
(a)   Allowed in permitted locations. The City Council hereby adopts the
provisions of Section 33.01 and Section 105.06 of the Texas Alcoholic Beverages
Code authorizing the late-hour possession, consumption, and sale of alcohol
beverages in properly permitted locations within the city limits, as the hours
set forth in subsection (b) below.
(b)   During certain hours in public unlawful. It shall be unlawful for any
person in the city to consume any alcoholic beverage in any public place or for
any person to possess any alcoholic beverage in any public place for the
purpose of consuming the same in such public place at any time on Sunday
between the hours of 2:15 a.m. and 12:00 noon, and on all other days at any
time between the hours of 2:15 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. Alcoholic beverages may not
be sold in public places at any time on Sunday between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 12:00 noon, and all other days at any time between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 7:00 a.m., unless otherwise provided for by statute or ordinance.
(Ord. No. 1166, § 1, 2, 5-2-78; Ord. No. 4062, § 2, 7-14-16)
Sec. 10-9. Late-hour sale, delivery, possession and consumption of beer and
wine.
(a)   Retail dealers on-premises late-hour license. The City Council hereby
adopts the provisions of Section 105.04, 105.05 and 105.06 of the Texas
Alcoholic Beverage Code authorizing the late-hour sale, offer for sale and
delivery of beer and wine and the possession and consumption of beer and wine
on premises of a holder of a retail dealer's on-premises late-hour license
within the city limits, as set out in subsection (b) below.
(b)   Consumption or possession during certain hours in public. It shall be
unlawful for any person in the city to consume beer or wine in any public place
or for any person to possess any alcoholic beverage in public place for the
purpose of consuming the same in such public place at any time on Sunday
between the hours of 2:15 a.m. and 12:00 noon, and on all other days at any
time between the hours of 2:15 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. No. 1287, § 1, 2, 11-13-79)
Chapter 11
Ambulances and Emergency Medical Services
Article I. In General
Sec.
11-1.   Purpose.
Secs.
11-2 - 11-20.   Reserved.
Article II. Definitions
Sec.
11-21.   Terms defined.
Secs.
11-22 - 11-40.  Reserved.
Article III. Emergency Ambulance Services
Sec.
11-41.   City of Longview as sole provider.
Sec.
11-42.   Other services unlawful.
Sec.
11-43.   Exemptions.
Sec.
11-44.   Emergency ambulance service fees.
Sec.
11-45.   Collection of fees.
Secs.
11-46 - 11-70. Reserved.
Article IV. Non-Emergency Ambulance Service
Sec.
11-71.   License required.
Sec.
11-72.   Exemptions from license requirement.
Sec.
11-73.   Application for license.
Sec.
11-74.   Investigation of applicant.
Sec.
11-75.   Licensing criteria.
Sec.
11-76.   Issuance of license.
Sec.
11-77.   Operating conditions.
Sec.
11-78.   Revocation, alteration, or suspension of license.
Sec.
11-79.   Appeal of any denial, revocation, alteration, or suspension of
license.
Sec.
11-80.   Complaint.
Sec.
11-81.   Penalty.
Article I.
In General
Sec. 11-1.   Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter shall be to authorize the City of Longview
Emergency Medical Services System operated by the city fire department as the
exclusive provider of emergency ambulance service within the city; to establish
rules and procedures for the licensing and regulation of non-emergency
ambulance providers; and to establish a comprehensive regulatory scheme
consistent with the requirements of state law, city Charter, and local
ordinances to coordinate emergency and non-emergency ambulance services within
the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Secs. 11-2 - 11-20.   Reserved.
Article II.
Definitions
Sec. 11-21. Terms defined.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter 11 shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
Advanced Life Support shall mean any measure that constitutes either "Advanced
Life Support, Level 1 (ALS1)" or "Advanced Life Support, Level 2 (ALS2)" as
those terms are defined in the medicare rules relating to ground ambulance
transports.
   Ambulance shall mean any publicly or privately owned motor vehicle that is
specially designed, constructed, equipped, maintained, and intended to be used
for the transportation of wounded, injured, or sick patients.
   Applicant shall mean any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity seeking a license from the city to operate a non-emergency
ambulance system.
   City shall mean the City of Longview, Texas.
   Emergency shall mean any circumstance that calls for immediate action and in
which the element of time is essential to the health, safety, or life of a
person. Such circumstances constituting an emergency shall include, but are not
limited to, fires, accidents, traffic accidents, sudden illnesses, and acts of
violence or other similar occurrences, which can or do result in personal
injury. In general, any condition requiring examination or treatment in the
emergency department of a hospital is considered an emergency (including, but
not limited to any of the following: the need for Advanced Life Support, the
patient is to be admitted to the operating room for treatment, application/
maintenance of intravenous medication drips, active medication administration,
acute respiratory management via the administration/use of breathing adjuncts,
etc.). For the purposes of this chapter, any situation other than those
requiring the use of a non-emergency ambulance service as defined herein shall
be considered an emergency.
   Emergency ambulance service shall mean ambulance service provided in the
event of an emergency.
   Fire Chief shall mean the Fire Chief of the City of Longview Fire
Department, or his duly authorized designee.
   Inside the city shall mean inside the corporate limits of the City of
Longview, Texas, as the same shall exist at the time of adoption of this
chapter, or shall be thereafter modified.
   License shall mean a certificate issued by the City of Longview to operate a
non-emergency ambulance system within the city limits of the city.
   Licensee shall mean any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity to whom or which a license is issued under this chapter.
   Non-emergency or transfer ambulance shall mean any ambulance engaged in
providing non-emergency or transfer ambulance service within the city.
   Non-emergency or transfer ambulance service shall mean ambulance service
provided for the purpose of transporting persons to or from prearranged,
scheduled tests, treatments, or examinations by one or more physicians or other
health care providers, or the transportation of patients discharged from a
hospital back to their nursing home or residence.
   Outside the city shall mean outside the corporate limits of the City of
Longview, Texas, as the same shall exist at the time of adoption of this
chapter, or shall thereafter be modified.
   Street shall mean and include any street, alley, avenue, highway, or other
thoroughfare, whether dedicated to public or private use, within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99, Ord. No. 4248, § 2, 1-9-20)
Secs. 11-22 - 11-40. Reserved.
Article III.
Emergency Ambulance Services
Sec. 11-41. City of Longview as sole provider.
Save and except as otherwise provided herein, the city fire department shall be
and is the sole provider of emergency ambulance service within the corporate
limits of the city.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Sec. 11-42. Other services unlawful.
Save and except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity, either by itself or
through its agent or representative, other than the city fire department, its
officers or employees thereof, to furnish, operate, conduct, maintain,
advertise, or otherwise be engaged in the operation of emergency ambulance
service upon the streets of the city.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Sec. 11-43. Exemptions.
Emergency ambulance services exempt from the prohibition against transporting
patients on the streets of the city shall include the following:
(1)   any emergency ambulance service engaged in transporting any patient from
a point of origin located outside the city to a destination inside the city;
(2)   any emergency ambulance service engaged in transporting any patient from
a point of origin located inside the city to a destination outside the city;
(3)   any emergency ambulance service engaged in transporting any patient from
a point of origin located outside the city to a destination located outside the
city;
(4) any emergency ambulance service operated by any federal or state agency;
and
(5) any specific request to provide assistance to the Longview Fire Department
made by the Fire Chief or his/her designee.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99, Ord. No. 4248, § 3, 1-9-20)
Sec. 11-44. Emergency ambulance service fees.
The schedule of charges for emergency ambulance service provided by the city
fire department emergency medical service shall be as set by resolution of the
City Council.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 3053, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 11-45. Collection of fees.
(a)   Fees due upon service. Fees for services provided by the Longview Fire
Department for emergency ambulance service shall be due and payable immediately
upon rendering such services. Such fees shall be considered to be delinquent if
the same, or any part thereof, remain unpaid for a period of 120 days after the
provision of such services.
(b)   Payment plans. Subsection (a) of this section notwithstanding, the City
Manager or the Manager's designee may authorize such payment plans as the
Manager or the Manager's designee deems appropriate, including without
limitation, payment plans that allow for payment of fees for emergency
ambulance service over a period of more than 120 days.
(c)   Special payers. The city shall accept payment of ambulance service fees
from Medicare, Medicaid, Railroad Medicare, Champus/Military Insurance,
Workers' Compensation and other governmental or quasi-governmental entities.
The city shall comply with any conditions imposed by state or federal law on
the city's acceptance of such payments.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 2976, § 2, 11-30-00, Ord. No. 4248, § 4,
1-9-20)
Secs. 11-46 - 11-70. Reserved.
Article IV.
Non-Emergency Ambulance Service
Sec. 11-71. License required.
It shall be unlawful for any non-emergency ambulance service to operate within
the city for the purposes of transporting patients for a fee or charge, without
first obtaining a license from the city.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Sec. 11-72. Exemptions from license requirement.
No license will be required for any non-emergency ambulance service
transporting patients on the streets of the city and engaged exclusively in one
or more of the following activities:
(1)   transporting any patient from a point of origin located outside the city
to a destination inside the city;
(2)   transporting any patient from a point of origin within the city to a
destination outside the city;
(3)   transporting any patient from a point of origin located outside the city
to a destination located outside the city;
(4)   any service owned or operated by any federal or state agency;
(5)   operating solely for the purposes of a drill or training exercise which
is duly authorized by the Fire Chief or designated emergency management
coordinator;
(6)   operating an ambulance in response to a request for assistance by the
Fire Chief under a declared emergency or mutual aid circumstance.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Sec. 11-73. Application for license.
Any non-emergency ambulance service desiring to provide such service in the
city must complete a written application accompanied by the appropriate non-
refundable application fee. The application shall be signed and sworn to by an
appropriate authorized representative of the applicant and filed with the Fire
Chief. The application shall be in a form prescribed by the Fire Chief and
shall contain as a minimum the following information:
(1)   the lawful name of the person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other
entity owning and operating the service;
(2)   the address and phone number of the applicant's central place of
business;
(3)   the address or addresses within the city from which the service will
operate, and a phone number for each such location;
(4)   the assumed name, if any, under which the applicant proposes to do
business, accompanied by a certified copy of a Certificate of Assumed Name as
required by state law;
(5)   if the applicant is an individual, the name and home address of the
applicant;
(6)   if the applicant is a partnership or association, the name and address of
each partner or associate;
(7)   if the applicant is a corporation, the name and address of the
corporation and the names and addresses of all officers and directors of such
corporation and the address of the registered agent for service;
(8)   the number of vehicles the applicant desires to operate and the model,
year, size, design, mileage and color scheme of each such vehicle;
(9)   verification of Texas Department of State Health Services inspection and
certification as ambulances of all vehicles proposed to be used within the
city;
(10)   verification of certification by the Texas Department of State Health
Services for all personnel to be performing patient care or transportation
within the city;
(11)   information regarding any applicant or employee engaged in any capacity
by any applicant, and who will be engaged actively in the service to be
provided within the city, who has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor
(other than minor traffic violations not subjecting the individual to
cancellation of driver's license or insurance) under the laws of this state,
the United States, or elsewhere. The applicant shall provide any information
regarding such offenses to the Fire Chief, to include date and nature of the
offense and the disposition of the case;
(12)   information regarding any claims or judgments which remain outstanding
and unsatisfied against the applicant for damages resulting from the negligent
operation of an ambulance or care given in association therewith;
(13)   a detailed description of the experience of the applicant in rendering
ambulance service elsewhere, including the extent of time such service has been
rendered, each city in which such service has been rendered, and in what
capacity (whether private or public) such service has been rendered;
(14)   a letter from a duly authorized agent of the applicant's insurance
carrier, stating that the insurance required of each applicant under this
article is available to the applicant and that such coverage is or will be
provided prior to the issuance of the license described herein;
(15)   the fee schedule the applicant proposes to charge for the services to be
rendered;
(16)   any other information the Fire Chief reasonably determines is necessary
to the issuance of a license;
(17)   payment of a non-refundable application fee in an amount set by
resolution of the City Council, payable at the time the application is filed
with the Fire Chief.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 3053, § 4, 8-9-01; Ord. No. 3525, § 10,
6-14-07)
Sec. 11-74. Investigation of applicant.
Upon receipt by the Fire Chief of an application to operate a non-emergency
ambulance service under this chapter, the Fire Chief shall make or cause to be
made, an investigation of the matters set out in the application; the ability
of the applicant to perform the services required; the financial responsibility
of the applicant to respond to damages or to pay claims for personal injury,
death and property damages arising from the applicant's operation; and such
investigation of other pertinent facts as are deemed necessary and appropriate
by the Fire Chief in furtherance of issuance of the license. The Fire Chief
shall render a decision on the issuance of a license within 30 days of receipt
of the application for same, subject to such additional time as the Fire Chief
shall notify the applicant is necessary for the applicant to furnish and the
Fire Chief to review information required to complete an otherwise incomplete
application or to supply relevant information requested by the Fire Chief to
adequately complete an investigation.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Sec. 11-75. Licensing criteria.
In rendering a determination as to the issuance of a license, the Fire Chief
shall determine whether the applicant meets the following minimum requirements:
(1)   the applicant has provided sufficient evidence of ability to meet and
comply with the applicable operating requirements of this chapter;
(2)   the applicant has demonstrated experience and ability in providing non-
emergency ambulance service or similar services elsewhere, and has demonstrated
an ability to provide service of sufficient quality as to best serve the public
interest;
(3)   the applicant has no unsatisfied final judgments, if any, to claimants as
the result of damage to property or personal injuries received by reason of
operation of ambulances or care given in association therewith;
(4)   the applicant has signed an affidavit or other document, in a form
approved by the City Attorney, indemnifying and holding harmless the City of
Longview, Texas, its officers and employees, from any liability arising out of
the operations of the applicant or the applicant's performance of its services
under any such license;
(5)   the applicant has filed with the Fire Chief, a certificate showing a
policy of public liability insurance issued by an insurance carrier qualified
to do business in the State of Texas, and naming the city as an additional
insured, which contains the following minimum conditions and stipulations
regarding such coverage:
   a.   the term of the insurance shall extend for at least as long as the
permit is valid;
   b.   the insurance policy shall provide limits of liability for each
accident involving bodily injury including death at any time resulting
therefrom, in the amount of $500,000.00 for each person, $2,000,000.00 for each
accident, and $250,000.00 for property damage sustained in any such accident;
   c.   such policy shall expressly provide that it may not be canceled, except
after 30 days written notice to the Fire Chief;
   d.   proof of additional general professional liability (malpractice)
insurance in the amount of $5,000,000.00;
(6)   the vehicles proposed to be used are each certified by the Texas
Department of State Health Services as a basic life support ambulance or
higher;
(7)   the personnel proposed to work in the city shall each be certified by the
Texas Department of State Health Services as basic emergency medical technician
level or higher;
(8)   the intent of the service is to operate non-emergency transfers only.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 3525, § 11, 6-14-07, Ord. No. 4248, § 5,
1-9-20)
Sec. 11-76. Issuance of license.
Following an in-depth investigation, and upon finding that the applicant meets
the required qualifications set out herein; will be able to give proper and
adequate service; and that such service is required for public necessity and
convenience and shall be in the best interests of the citizens of the city, the
Fire Chief shall issue a license to operate. The license shall as a condition
of such operation require that only non-emergency ambulance services shall be
provided, and shall include any additional restrictions or conditions necessary
under the terms and provisions of this article. A copy of each license shall be
filed with the City Secretary.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Sec. 11-77. Operating conditions.
During the term of the license, the licensee shall comply in all respects with
the provisions of this article and shall satisfy all terms and conditions of
any license issued hereunder. In order to stay in compliance with the
requirements of this article, and to comply with the terms and provisions of
any license issued hereunder, any licensee shall during the term of the license
continue to adhere to the provisions and requirements of sections 11-75 and 11-
76 herein, as well as fulfill the following requirements:
(1)   the licensee shall establish and maintain an office within the city
limits of the city;
(2)   all motor vehicles and personnel used in the performance of the non-
emergency ambulance services shall during the term of any license meet minimum
requirements established by the Texas Department of State Health Services for
basic life support ambulances;
(3)   all equipment shall be maintained in good working condition;
(4)   the color of all non-emergency ambulances shall be different and
distinctive from the color of emergency ambulances operated by the city fire
department. Each non-emergency ambulance shall bear markings which identify
both the licensee's name and vehicle number. The name designation shall be
placed on both sides and the rear of the ambulance. The issued Texas Department
of State Health Services license number shall also be affixed to the ambulance
exterior;
(5)   each licensee shall maintain at its place of business located within the
city a properly listed telephone, and business records and daily manifests as
set forth herein, available for inspection or audit as deemed advisable by the
Fire Chief. It shall also be the responsibility of the licensee to maintain
with the Fire Chief the business address and telephone number whereby the
licensee may be reached at all times;
(6)   each licensee shall maintain a daily log on which shall be recorded the
date, time of service requested, time of dispatch, "dispatched-as" description,
time of arrival on the scene, patient's chief complaint, pre-hospital
provider's general impression of the patient's condition, time of arrival at
the ultimate destination, patient's name, address, and fees and charges
assessed for each trip. Said records and books shall, at all reasonable times,
be made available for purposes of audit by the city. Additionally, this
information shall be reported to the Longview Fire Department's EMS Section
Chief on a monthly basis by the 10th day of the subsequent month via facsimile
and/or such other means of transmission as the Fire Chief may designate;
(7)   annually each licensee shall, by or before March 31st, submit any
additional information reflecting changes in the information currently on file
with the city as required under the terms and provisions of this article for
issuance of the license. By or before March 31st, the licensee shall post with
the city, along with the required information necessary to update the license
information in the city's file, an annual renewal fee in the amount set by
resolution of the City Council;
(8)   all ambulances shall be subject to the same statutes, ordinances and
rules and regulations relating to safety and operating equipment applicable to
other motor vehicles in the city;
(9)   the licensee shall, upon request of the Fire Chief, present any and all
vehicles and equipment for inspection by the Fire Chief or his designee at a
location specified by the Fire Chief; and
(10)   the licensee shall, upon the occurrence of a recognized emergency within
the city, and upon request of the Fire Chief, make available the vehicles and
crews normally assigned to business in the city for the sake of mutual aid
needs. In this circumstance, the vehicles may respond to, or transport from,
the scene of an emergency within the city limits, under the direct control of
the Fire Chief or his designee.
(11) all ambulances shall maintain the ability to communicate via two-way radio
with the Longview Fire Department's emergency response fleet and the City's
public safety communications center via any of the following: (1) direct
communications via the City's Trunked 800mHz radio system subsequent to the
City Council's approval of a radio-use MOU or (2) patched communications via
the Texas Statewide Interoperability Channel Plan subsequent to the Texas
Department of Public Safety's approval of a MOU for installation and use of
those designated radio channels. The patched communications must be within the
VHF (very high frequency) radio spectrum. Each licensee shall comply with this
subsection (11) no later than March 31, 2021. On and after March 31, 2021, each
licensee must comply with this subsection (11) at all times and any person
seeking to abtain or renew a license under this article must comply with this
subsection in order to receive or renew said license.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 3053, § 5, 8-9-01; Ord. No. 3525, § 12,
6-14-07, Ord. No. 4248, § 6, 1-9-20)
Sec. 11-78. Revocation, alteration, or suspension of license.
Each license issued hereunder shall be subject to revocation, alteration, or
suspension by the Fire Chief when one or more of the following conditions are
determined to exist:
(1)   the licensee has refused to render the full service authorized by the
license;
(2)   the licensee has been convicted of a felony;
(3)   the application for the license was found to contain material facts
intentionally omitted or falsely stated;
(4)   the licensee has demonstrated a persistent and continuous practice of
permitting its vehicles to be operated in violation of any law;
(5)   the licensee has willfully and knowingly violated or failed to comply
with any of the provisions hereof or any policies or rules established pursuant
to this article;
(6)   the licensee, its agents or employees, have acted in bad faith by
inducing or seeking to induce a change of destination to or from a hospital or
other place specified by the person hiring the ambulance;
(7)   the licensee, its agents or employees, has been adjudicated guilty of
practices or procedures which constitute negligence in the performance of its
services;
(8)   the licensee's insurance coverage as required herein has been canceled,
withdrawn or terminated;
(9)   the vehicles or equipment used or operated by the licensee in the
performance of services authorized hereunder have become damaged, deteriorated,
or otherwise unfit for providing safe and reliable ambulance service;
(10)   the licensee, its agents or employees, actively engage in providing
emergency ambulance service within the city in violation of this chapter and
without the request or permission of the Fire Chief or his duly authorized
designee for mutual aid;
(11)   the city continues to receive a series of complaints regarding the
quality, cost, safety, or general professionalism of the service provided by
the licensee, and upon notice of such complaints, the licensee has not
undertaken reasonable measures to satisfy and remedy the cause or causes for
such complaints;
(12)   the licensee fails to file any and all reports required hereunder or
fails to pay the requisite annual renewal fee as set out herein; or
(13)   the licensee fails in any material respect to satisfy or conform with
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Sec. 11-79. Appeal of any denial, revocation, alteration, or suspension of
license.
(a)   Should the Fire Chief disapprove or deny an application for a non-
emergency ambulance license, the applicant shall be notified by certified mail
of that determination and the reasons for denial. The applicant may appeal the
denial action by submitting a written appeal to the City Council within 30 days
after receipt of the denial notification. The City Council shall conduct a
hearing to consider the appeal within 30 days after the filing of same. The
City Council shall thereafter determine the disposition of said appeal, and in
so doing determine whether or not to affirm the action of the Fire Chief or
grant the license as requested, subject to any and all other conditions which
the City Council may impose pursuant to the provisions of this article. The
City Council's decision shall be binding, subject to judicial appeal by the
applicant of any decision rendered by the City Council to a court of
appropriate jurisdiction within 30 days of city Council's decision; otherwise,
the City Council's decision shall be final and unappealable. Any such judicial
appeal of any decision rendered by the City Council shall be on the basis of
substantial evidence.
(b)   In addition to the general penalties imposed for a violation of the
provisions of this article, the Fire Chief shall be authorized to suspend,
alter, or revoke any license issued by the city upon failure of the licensee to
comply with the rules, regulations, and standards adopted herein, provided that
the Fire Chief shall, by certified mail, furnish the licensee no less than ten
days written notice of the proposed action and the reasons for the suspension,
alteration, or revocation of the license, and shall offer the licensee the
opportunity to request and participate in a hearing before the Fire Chief to
discuss the proposed action prior to its effective date. Any request for a
hearing before the Fire Chief must be filed in writing within ten days of
receipt of the written notice of the proposed action, or the action shall be
final and unappealable. Following any hearing requested, the Fire Chief shall
notify the licensee, in writing, of his findings.
(c)   Any licensee whose license to operate has been suspended, altered, or
revoked, following a hearing before the Fire Chief, may, within 30 days from
the date of such suspension, alteration, or revocation, submit a written appeal
of such action to the City Council. Such appeal shall suspend the effects of
the Fire Chief's action pending the rendering of a decision by the City
Council. The City Council shall conduct a hearing to consider the appeal within
30 days after the filing of same. The City Council shall thereafter determine
the disposition of said appeal, and in so doing determine whether or not to
affirm, revise, or reverse the action of the Fire Chief, subject to any and all
other conditions which the City Council may impose pursuant to the provisions
of this article. The City Council's decision shall be binding, subject to
judicial appeal by the licensee of any decision rendered by the City Council to
a court of appropriate jurisdiction within 30 days of City Council's decision;
otherwise, the City Council's decision shall be final and unappealable. Any
such judicial appeal of any decision rendered by the City Council shall be on
the basis of substantial evidence.
(d)    If the Fire Chief determines that imminent danger to public health and
safety exists, the Fire Chief may require the immediate suspension of all non-
emergency ambulance service provided by a licensee as part of any notice of
revocation. The Fire Chief shall also notify the Texas Department of State
Health Services regarding the pendency of such action. Under the circumstances
of such immediate suspension of service, and danger to public health and
safety, the license shall be suspended during the period of any appeal, and the
licensee shall be prohibited from providing any ambulance services within the
city unless such suspension is lifted by City Council during the appeal. The
appeal of any such revocation and accompanying suspension due to public health
and safety shall be conducted as otherwise provided in subsection (c) hereof
for the appeal of any other suspension, alteration, or revocation.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 3525, § 13, 6-14-07)
Sec. 11-80. Complaint.
Complaints about non-emergency ambulance service within the city shall be filed
in writing with the Fire Chief. Upon receipt of any such complaint, the Fire
Chief shall forward a copy of said complaint as soon as reasonably possible to
the appropriate licensee, instructing the licensee to reply to the Fire Chief
regarding the disposition and satisfaction of such complaint within ten working
days of the receipt of same.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Sec. 11-81. Penalty.
Each violation of this article is hereby declared a misdemeanor and upon
adjudication of guilt thereof, any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or
other entity which violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply
with or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this article
shall be assessed a fine not to exceed $2,000.00 for each offense in accordance
with the provisions of Section 1-4 of the Code. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall be deemed a separate offense for which a separate fine
may be assessed.
(Ord. No. 2841, § 2, 9-9-99)
Chapter 12
Reserved
Chapter 13
Animals and Fowl
Article I. In General
Sec.
13-1.   Definitions.
Article II. Administrative Provisions
Sec.
13-2.   Local rabies control authority.
Sec.
13-3.   Animal shelter to be established.
Sec.
13-4.   Authority to impound or destroy certain animals; transfer of ownership
of impounded animal to city.
Sec.
13-5.   Disposition and treatment of dogs and cats; fees authorized.
Sec.
13-6.   Temporary confinement of animals by individual.
Sec.
13-7.   Access.
Sec.
13-8.   Records.
Article III. Prohibited Acts
Sec.
13-9.   Public nuisances.
Sec.
13-10.   Limitation on number of dogs and cats.
Sec.
13-11.   Confinement of dogs and cats during estrus.
Sec.
13-12.   Prohibited acts.
Sec.
13-13.   Prohibited animals and reptiles.
Sec.
13-14.   Animal parades, herding prohibited.
Sec.
13-15.   Trapping prohibited; impoundment of traps.
Article IV. Rabies Control
Sec.
13-16.   Vaccinations.
Sec.
13-17.   Duty to report.
Sec.
13-18.   Quarantine of animals.
Sec.
13-19.   Domestic animals exposed to rabies.
Sec.
13-20.   Release or disposition of quarantined animal.
Sec.
13-21.   Wild, exotic, or dangerous animals.
Article V. Fierce or Dangerous Dogs
Sec.
13-22.   Regulation of fierce or dangerous dogs.
Sec.
13-23.   Procedure for impoundment and hearing.
Sec.
13-24.   Guard dogs.
Sec.
13-25.   Animal control officer authorized to enforce.
Sec.
13-26.   Additional requirements and restrictions for dangerous dogs.
Sec.
13-27.   Failure to surrender dog.
Article VI. Regulation of Livestock, Poultry and Birds
Sec.
13-28.    Regulations relating to keeping of poultry and birds.
Sec.
13-29 .   Location of livestock enclosures.
Article VII. Enforcement
Sec.
13-30.    Interference with the animal control officer or other officer.
Sec.
13-31.     Penalty for violation.
Sec.
13-32.     Dispensing with requirement of culpable mental state.
Sec. 
13-33.   Trap, Neuter, Release Program Created.
Article VIII. Microchipping, Sterilization and Breeding of Dogs and Cats
Sec.
 13-40.   Microchip required
Sec. 
13-41.   Sterilization required; intact pet permit.
Sec. 
13-42.   Breeding permit.
Sec. 
13-43.   Appeals.
Article I.
In General
Sec. 13-1.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Animal. The term “animal” shall mean any warm-blooded vertebrate creature,
domestic or wild, excluding the human species.
   Animal control authority. The term “animal control authority” shall mean the
Animal Services Division of the city, for purposes of Health and Safety Code
822.001, as amended, and the provisions of this chapter.
   Animal control officer. The term “animal control officer” shall mean a
person designated by the city as a primary enforcement officer regulating
animals and owners of animals for the enforcement of state laws and regulations
pertaining to the care and control of animals, or his or her designee(s).
   Animal exhibition. The term “animal exhibition” shall mean a circus,
carnival, or event owning or maintaining animals for purposes of displaying or
performing in exhibitions of temporary duration not to exceed 30 days, where
attendance of the general public is solicited, operating under a contract,
lease, special event permit, or otherwise approved by the city.
   Animal Services Division. The term "Animal Services Division" shall mean the
department(s) or division(s) of the city designated by the City Manager to
administer and/or enforce the provisions of this chapter and any person or
persons designated by such a division or department to represent the division
or department for said purpose.
   Animal services manager. The term "animal services manager" shall mean the
person designated by the city manager as manager of the Animal Services
Divison.
   Animal shelter. The term “animal shelter” shall mean the facility designated
by the city for the purpose of housing and caring for impounded, stray,
homeless, abandoned or unwanted animals, or any other animals held under
authority of this chapter.
   At-large. The term “at-large” shall mean running free or otherwise without
physical or other restraint whether on or off the premises of its owner.
   Breeding permit. The term "breeding permit" shall mean a permit issued
pursuant to Section 13-42 of this chapter.
   Cat. The term “cat” shall mean a domestic feline of either sex, including
one that has been sterilized. (any Felis catus according to TAC 169.22, as
amended).
   Circus or carnival. The term “circus” or “carnival” shall mean a commercial
variety show featuring animal acts for public entertainment that is licensed
under the Federal Animal Welfare Act or licensed by Texas Department of State
Health Services according to the provisions of chapter 824 of the Health and
Safety Code, as amended.
   Competition dog or cat. The term "competition dog or cat" shall mean a dog
or cat that has been registered with a local, state, national or international
club or organization that has been recognized by the animal services manager as
a club or organization that maintains standards for breeds and/or health of
dogs/cats; or, registered with a club or organization that holds, sponsors, or
licenses conformation dog shows, obedience trials, agility trials, field
trials, rally trials, tracking tests, hunt tests, or other competitive events
recognized by an organization such as The American Kennel Club at least once a
year.
   Dangerous wild animals or reptiles. The term “dangerous wild animals or
reptiles” shall mean one not normally considered domesticated, that is wild by
nature. Dangerous wild animals or reptiles shall include but are not limited to
the following: alligators, bats, bears, bobcats, cheetahs, coyotes, crocodiles,
foxes, hyenas, jackals, jaguars, leopards, lions, lynx, monkeys and other non-
human primates, mountain lions, ocelots, panthers, raccoons, skunks, tigers,
venomous snakes, wildcats, wolves, hybrids of the above listed animals.
   Dog. The term “dog” shall mean any Canis familiaris, excluding wolf, jackal,
fox, or other dangerous wild animal of this family or any hybrids of a
dangerous wild animal.
   Dog Park. The term "dog park" shall mean any public or private property
designated by the City to allow dog owners to allow their dogs to run
unrestrained.
   Domestic fowl. The term “domestic fowl” shall mean any fowl normally adapted
to live in intimate association with humans or for the advantage of humans.
   Fowl. The term “fowl” shall mean any heavy bodied, terrestrial bird of the
order galliformes, including but not limited to chickens, ducks, geese,
pheasants, turkeys, grouse, guineas, or other common domestic fowl, but not
including caged pet birds kept inside a building.
   Harboring. The term “harboring” shall mean the act of keeping or caring for
an animal including, but not limited to, the providing of food, shelter, or
medical attention for the animal.
   High risk animal. The term “high risk animal” shall mean those animals which
have a high probability of transmitting rabies; they include skunks, bats,
species of foxes indigenous to North America, coyotes, and raccoons.
   Impound. The terms "impound", "impounded", and "impoundment" refer to the
seizure and holding of animals that are not the property of the City of
Longview, and said terms do not refer to any animal owned by the City of
Longview, including without limitation any animal for which ownership has been
conveyed to the City of Longview by the owner and any animal that has become
the property of the City of Longview pursuant to Section 13-4 (b) of this
chapter.
   Intact. The term "intact" shall mean an animal that has not been sterilized.
   Intact pet permit. The term "intact pet permit" shall mean a permit issued
pursuant to Section 13-41 of this chapter.
   Kennel. The term “kennel” shall mean an establishment designed or used for
the commercial boarding, selling, breeding, or training of animals; occasional
sales of registered animals kept primarily as pets or show animals and not
primarily for breeding purposes shall not constitute commercial activity for
purposes of this definition.
   Livestock. The term “livestock” shall mean any horse, swine, cattle, sheep,
goat, mule, jack, emu, ostrich or rhea.
   Low risk animal. The term “low risk animal” shall mean those which have a
low probability of transmitting rabies; they include all animals of the orders
Marsupialia, Insectivora, Rodentia, Lagomorpha, and Xenarthra.
   Microchip. The term "microchip" shall mean a small device that is designed
to be placed under the skin and that contains a unique number that is read by
an eletronic scanning device for the purpose of animal identification and
recovery by the animal's owner.
   Owner. The term “owner” shall mean any person, corporation, partnership,
trust, or association or other entity owning, keeping, or harboring an animal
or who has possession or control or has the responsibility to control an
animal, other than a person who temporarily restrains an animal pursuant to
Section 13-14 of this chapter.
   Person. The term “person” shall mean any individual, corporation,
partnership, trust, association or other legal entity.
   Pet animal. The term “pet animal” shall mean dogs, cats, rabbits, rodents,
birds, non-poisonous reptiles, and any other species of animal which is sold or
retained as a household pet, but shall not include any species of wild, exotic,
or carnivorous animal that may be prohibited elsewhere in this chapter.
   Pet shop.  The term “pet shop” shall mean an establishment where pet animals
are kept for either retail or wholesale sale or trade by any person.
   Poultry. The term “poultry” shall mean all domesticated fowl which are kept
in captivity.
   Qualified researcher. The term “qualified researcher” shall mean an
individual conducting research projects, scientific, or academic investigation
with respect to a wild animal owned or maintained on the premises of a bona
fide research institution as defined in this chapter.
   Quarantine.  The term “quarantine” shall mean strict confinement under
restraint by closed cage or paddock or on the premises of the owner in any
other manner approved by the local rabies control authority or designee or at a
facility approved by the local rabies control authority or designee.
   Rabies. The term “rabies” shall mean an acute viral disease of human and
animal affecting the central nervous system usually transmitted through the
bite of a rabid animal and/or including the condition commonly known as rabies.
   Rabies vaccination. The term “rabies vaccination” shall mean the vaccination
of a dog, cat or other domestic animal with a rabies vaccine administered by a
veterinarian licensed by the State of Texas.
   Rescue organization. The term "rescue organization" shall mean a group that
has filed a certificate of formation with the Texas Secretary of State; and,
are deemed tax exempt by the Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts and the
Federal Internal Revenue Service; and, does not create a public nuisance as
defined in Section 13-9 of this chapter.
   Research institution. The term “research institution” shall mean a permanent
state-accredited or licensed academic institution which owns or maintains
captive wild animals under the direction of a professional staff and provides
its collection of animals with appropriate care for the purpose of education,
research, or scientific study.
   Restraint or restrained. The term “restrained” shall mean:
   (a)   confined on the premises of the owner within a fence or enclosure of
sufficient strength to control the actions of the animal; or
   (b)   fastened or picketed by a lead, rope, or chain so as to keep the
animal on premises of the owner; or
   (c)   under the control of a person by means of a harness, leash, chain, or
similar device attended by a person of sufficient strength to prevent the
animal from running at large; or
   (d)   on or within a vehicle being driven or parked if it is:
      (1) contained in a closed, vented, animal carrier large enough to allow
the animal to stand and turn around without difficulty, that is secured in such
a manner as to prevent the carrier from being thrown from the vehicle in the
event of a collision; or
      (2) secured by a leash or other device that is cross-connected to prevent
the animal from falling, jumping, or being thrown from the motor vehicle and
from strangling on a single lead.
   The term “restraint” shall mean any of the methods of restraining an animal
set forth in this definition.
   Shelter.  The term “shelter” shall mean protection from the elements
including heat, cold, rain, ice, or snow by means of walls and solid overhead
covering such as a dog house or shed. A tree does not constitute proper
shelter.
   State-licensed breeder. The term "state-licensed breeder" shall mean a
person who holds a valid license issued under Chapter 802 of the Texas
Occupations Code.
   Sterilized. The term "sterilized" shall mean any animal rendered incapable
of reproducing, such as by spaying or neutering..
   Stray animal. The term “stray animal” shall mean an animal that is not
restrained.
   Valid. The term "valid" shall mean currently in effect and not expired,
revoked or suspended.
   Wildlife. The term “wildlife” shall mean any animal which occurs naturally
in a wild state. This includes any animal which is a wildlife hybrid.
   Zoo, zoological park, or animal park. The term “zoo”, “zoological park”, or
“animal park” shall mean any premises, whether mobile or stationary, where
living animals that normally live in a wild state are kept primarily for
display to the general public; that is accredited by the American Association
of Zoological Parks and Aquariums or licensed under Animal Welfare Act or by
Texas Department of State Health Services according to the provisions of
Chapter 824 of the Health and Safety Code, as amended.
(Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4054, § 2, 5-24-16; Ord. No. 4523, § 2, 11-
14-24)
Article II.
Administrative Provisions
Sec. 13-2.   Local rabies control authority.
For the purposes of this chapter only and in accordance with Section 826.017 of
the Rabies Control Act, chapter 826, Vernon’s Texas Codes Annotated, Health and
Safety Code, as amended, the local rabies control authority for the city shall
be the manager of the Animal Services Division of the city, Texas, and the said
manager's designees and appointees. The duties shall include but are not
limited to:
(a)   enforcement of all ordinances and/or rules of the city pertaining to
rabies and animal control;
(b)   enforcement of the provisions of state law and administrative rules of
the Texas Board of Health;
(c)   designate those persons to serve as animal control officers or inspectors
as necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4054, § 3, 5-24-16)
Sec. 13-3.   Animal shelter to be established.
The city shall establish an animal shelter for the housing, maintenance,
shelter, and destruction of stray, diseased, injured, or vicious animals,
whether said animals are impounded or owned by the City of Longview.
(Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4054, § 4, 5-24-16)
Sec. 13-4.   Authority to impound or destroy certain animals; transfer of
ownership of impounded animal to city.
(a)   Any police officer, animal control officer, or other person designated by
the manager of the Animal Services Division may impound any stray animal found
running at large within the city limits, and may proceed beyond the city limits
in exigent circumstances as authorized by law, and may impound any animal being
kept in violation of this chapter; any animal which is diseased and endangers
the health of person or another animal; any animal which has bitten a human or
which has acted in a fierce or vicious manner as described in ordinance;
destroy humanely, an animal posing an imminent danger to persons or property
under circumstances of emergency, or an animal that has bitten or scratched a
person; impound for treatment or, in the alternative, humanely destroy an
animal that is injured to a degree presenting little or no likelihood of
recovery.
(b)   Immediately upon the expiration of 72 hours after an animal is first
impounded by the city, any and all owners of the animal are divested of
ownership of the animal and ownership of the animal is vested in the City of
Longview.
(Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4054, § 5, 5-24-16)
Sec. 13-5.   Disposition and treatment of dogs and cats; fees authorized.
(a)   As soon as practicable after an impoundment of a dog or cat or other pet
animal is known, reasonable attempts shall be made by the Animal Services
Division to notify the owner. Any impounded dog or cat or pet animal may be
redeemed by the payment of any applicable fees, including wihtout limitation,
if applicalbe, a microchipping fee, veterinary charges, if any, and rabies
vaccination fee if the animal was unvaccinated at the time of impoundment. If
such animal is not redeemed within 72 hours of its impoundment, it shall be the
sole property of the City of Longview as provided in Section 13-4 of this
chapter. Any impounded animal which appears to be seriously ill, injured, or
visibly affected with any sign of communicable disease or to be a risk to other
animals in the animal shelter before the end of the 72 hour waiting period, may
be humanely euthanized.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any animal from the animal
shelter without the consent of the manager of the animal shelter.
(c)   An individual may adopt a dog or cat from the animal shelter under such
terms and conditions as shall be established and approved by the city, this
chapter, and the Animal Services Division.
(d)   Any veterinary procedure, testing, or treatment for any animal in the
custody of the animal control authority, shall be the expense of the owner or
person maintaining the animal.
(e)   When a person reclaims a dog or cat that has been impounded for running
at large, and the dog or cat is intact, the person shall provide proof of
sterilization of the dog or cat to the Animal Services Division within 14
calendar days of reclaiming the animal. If such proof is not provided within 14
calendar days, the person reclaiming the dog or cat shall be fined in
accordance with Section 1-4 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Longview,
with the minimum fine being $250.00. When a person reclaims a dog or cat that
has been impounded for running at large on more than three occassions, the
Animal Services Division is authorized to sterilize the animal, and the person
reclaiming the animal shall be required to pay, in addition to any other
applicable fees and fines, the cost of sterilizing the animal.
(f)   Immediately upon intake, the Animal Services Division is authorized to
provide each appropriately aged impounded animal with core immunizations as
defined by the Association of Shelter Veterinarian guidelines. Said
immunizations shall be performed by a licensed veterinarian or by a person
under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian.
(g)   Immediately upon intake, the Animal Services Division is authorized to
provide or obtain for each impounded animal such treatment as a licensed
veterinarian determines is appropriate for the animal.
(h)   The Animal Services Division is authorized to implant an identification
microchip in any impounded animal and in any animal determined to be a fierce
or dangerous dog in accordance with Article V of this chapter.
(i)   The Animal Services Division is authorized to collect such fees as may be
authorized by resolution of the City Council or by such interlocal agreements
as may be approved by the Longview City Council. In extenuating circumstances
the City Manger or the manager of the Animal Services Division may waive a fee
assessed against an owner reclaiming an impounded animal or for adoptions or
rescues. Extenuating circumstances may include, but are not limited to,
circumstances in which the animal is unruly, infirm, sick, aged, eight weeks of
age or younger, or sterile before impoundment.
(j)   The Animal Services Division is authorized to act on behalf of the City
of Longview with regard to any animal owned by the City of Longview and housed
in the animal shelter. Accordingly, the Animal Services Division is authorized
to sterilize such animals, implant identification microchips in such animals,
obtain immunizations and medical treatment for such animals, euthanize such
animals, and otherwise care for and dispose of such animals on behalf of the
City of Longview.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4054, § 6, 5-24-
16)
Sec. 13-6.   Temporary confinement of animals by individual.
An animal found running at large may be temporarily confined in a humane
manner. The person so confining an animal shall within 24 hours notify the
Animal Services Division; and when so notified the animal control officer may
impound said animal, and take any appropriate action pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4054, § 7, 5-24-16)
Sec. 13-7.   Access.
In the event an animal subject to impoundment under this chapter is on private
property or the property of its owner or harborer, an impounding officer may
enter the property, other than a private dwelling, for the purpose of
impoundment of the animal or the issuance of the notice of violation or both,
subject to the applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-8.   Records.
It shall be the duty of the Animal Services Division to maintain such records
as deemed necessary to the enforcement of all provisions of this chapter and
have those records available for display to the public upon written request
during regular business hours of the Animal Services Division.
(Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4054, § 8, 5-24-16)
Article III.
Prohibited Acts
Sec. 13-9.   Public Nuisances.
(a)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a public nuisance for the owner or
any person to maintain any animal which roams at-large on public or private
property, except a designated dog park; which attacks another animal; or
damages public or private property.
(b)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a public nuisance for any owner,
occupant, or other person in control of a premises to knowingly suffer, permit
or maintain the presence of a dead or decaying animal carcass upon any such
premises within the city, whether public or private, for more than 24 hours.
(c)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a public nuisance for any owner,
occupant, or other person to allow any enclosure, yard, shed, pen, structure,
or other similar place used for keeping of an animal or animals, or fowl to
become unsanitary, or offensive by reason of odor, or create a condition that
is a breeding place for fleas or vector, or which creates any health hazard or
nuisance to adjacent property owners.
(d)   It shall be unlawful and constitute a public nuisance for any owner or
other person to harbor any animal, or fowl or bird which by any loud, frequent,
long, continuous, or unusual sound or cry shall disturb the peace, comfort, or
quiet of the neighborhood or the occupants of adjacent premises.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-10.   Limitation on number of dogs and cats.
(a)   It is unlawful for any household to own or keep more than six dogs or six
cats, or any combination thereof upon any private premises within the city
limits. It is a defense to this section that the private premises is: a
veterinary clinic, an animal hospital, or similar facility; an animal shelter;
a kennel; a pet shop; a research institution; owned or operated by a qualified
researcher; a performing animal exhibition; owned or occupied by an owner of
competition dogs or cats which routinely compete at recognized competitions; a
certified rescue organization; or owned or occupied by a pet owner whose pet
has a litter up to 16 weeks old.
(b)   It is an defense to this section that the dogs and/or cats are on a
premises which is a minimum of one acre in size and the premises is maintained
in a sanitary manner that is not a public health nuisance, no noise nuisance,
or a danger to the animals or the public. This defense shall be established by
a certified copy of a deed or title to the premises in inssue, at trial.
(c)   Every yard, shed, pen, or other structure used for the storage or shelter
of animals shall be cleaned and maintained so as to maintain safe and healthy
conditions for the animals, to prevent the escape of any noxious odors,
or substances to adjacent properties, or to create any health hazard or
nuisance to adjacent property owners. Allowing or permitting of such violation
is hereby declared a public nuisance. Provisions of this subsection shall
become effective immediately upon passage of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-11.   Confinement of dogs and cats during estrus.
Any unspayed female dog or cat in the stage of estrus (heat) shall be confined
during such period of time in a house, building or secure enclosure and said
area of enclosure shall be so constructed that no other person’s dog, or a
stray dog, may gain access to the confined animal. Owners or persons harboring
an animal not confined as required herein shall be ordered by the animal
control officer to properly confine the animal or remove the animal in heat to
a boarding kennel or veterinary hospital. All expenses incurred as a result of
the confinement shall be paid by the owner. Failure to comply with the removal
order of the animal control officer shall be a violation of this chapter and
the dog will then be impounded as prescribed in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-12.   Prohibited Acts.
(a)   Unsanitary conditions. It shall be unlawful for anyone to maintain an
animal in unsanitary conditions.
(b)   Animals in parked vehicles; removal if necessary. It shall be unlawful to
leave any animal in any standing or parked vehicle in such a way as to endanger
the animal's health or safety. Any animal control officer, police officer, or
fire fighter is authorized to use reasonable force, including the breaking of a
window, to remove an animal from the vehicle whenever the officer reasonably
believes that the animal's health or safety is, or soon will be, endangered,
and said animal shall be impounded. An officer who removes an animal in
accordance with this subsection is not liable for any resulting property
damage. Outside air temperatures above 75 degrees Farenheit shall serve as
prima facie evidence for such endangerment.
(c)   Animals tethered. It shall be unlawful for any person to tether an animal
at any time in a manner that unreasonably limits the dog's movements.
   (1)   In this section, a restraint unreasonably limits a dog's movement if
the restraint:
      (a)   uses a collar that is pinch-type, prong-type, or choke type or that
is not properly fitted to the dog;
      (b)   is a length shorter than either 5 times the length of the dog, or
10 feet in length;
      (c)    is in unsafe condition;
      (d)   causes injury to the dog; or
      (e)   exceeds 1/20 th of the dog's body weight.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-13.   Prohibited animals and reptiles.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to import, offer for sale, keep,
maintain, harbor, or possess within the corporate limits, any dangerous wild
animal or reptile as defined in this chapter.
(b)   This prohibition shall not apply to the following facilities, provided
such facilities are otherwise operated in accordance with this chapter and
state law; and does not occur in a residential structure or within 300 feet
thereof:
   (1)   a publicly or privately owned zoological park open to the general
public.
   (2)   a federally licensed research institution or qualified researcher.
   (3)   an animal exhibition which has all proper permits to conduct business
in the City of Longview, Texas.
   (4)   anyone holding a valid rehabilitation permit from Texas Parks and
Wildlife, but only for animals of the permitted species and which are in
rehabilitation.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-14.   Animal parades, herding prohibited.
It is unlawful for any owner or other person to herd, parade, or otherwise move
livestock or other animals from one location to another along a public street
or highway in the city unless the person is doing so pursuant to the conditions
of a parade duly authorized by the city; or an officer or employee of the
federal, state, or local government engaged in the performance of official
duties.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-15.   Trapping prohibited; impoundment of traps.
(a)   It is unlawful for any person to set or place any trap designed for
trapping animals in any street, alley, park, or other public place within the
corporate city limits.
(b)   It is unlawful for any person to set or place any steel-jawed or tooth-
jawed trap upon private premises within the corporate city limits.
(c)   Any trap mentioned in this section, when found within the corporate city
limits, is hereby declared to be abandoned property and any peace officer or
animal control officer is hereby authorized to impound and process the same as
abandoned property in accordance with state law and this chapter.
(d)   This section shall not prevent any peace officer or animal control
officer or his or her designee from engaging in the performance of their duties
or to persons using traps provided by the city with specific authorization from
the Animal Services Division, or to persons specifically authorized in writing
by the city Animal Services Division to conduct said trapping.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4054, § 9, 5-24-
16)
Article IV.
Rabies Control
Sec. 13-16.   Vaccinations.
(a)   Vaccination required. Every owner or person harboring a dog or cat four
months of age or older within the boundaries of the city shall have said animal
vaccinated against rabies. The animal must receive a booster within the 12-
month interval following the initial vaccination. Every animal must be
revaccinated against rabies at a minimum of once every three years with a
triennial vaccine or a minimum of once each years with an annual vaccine. All
rabies vaccinations shall be administered by a duly licensed veterinarian.
(b)   Vaccination certificate. Upon vaccination, the veterinarian shall execute
and furnish to the owner or person harboring the dog or cat, as evidenced
thereof, a certificate upon a form furnished by the veterinarian. The
veterinarian shall retain a duplicate copy for three years. Such certificate
shall contain the following information:
   (1)   owner’s name, address and telephone number;
   (2)   the animal’s species, age, sex, size (in pounds), predominant breed
and colors;
   (3)   vaccine used, producer, expiration date, and serial number;
   (4)   the date of vaccination;
   (5)   the rabies tag number; and
   (6)   the veterinarian’s signature or signature stamp and license number.
(c)   Vaccination tag. Concurrent with the issuance and delivery of the
certificate of vaccination referred to herein, the veterinarian shall furnish a
metal tag, serially numbered to correspond with the vaccination certificate
number and bearing the year of issuance, the vaccination date, and the name and
address of the issuing veterinarian. In the event of the loss or destruction of
the original tag, the owner or person harboring the animal shall obtain a
duplicate tag from the issuing authority.
(d)   Proof of vaccination. It shall be unlawful for any person who owns or
harbors a vaccinated animal to fail or refuse to exhibit the certificate of
vaccination upon demand of any person charged with the enforcement of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4523, §3, 11-14-
24)
Sec. 13-17.   Duty to Report.
(a)   A person who knows of an animal bite or scratch to an individual that the
person could reasonably foresee as capable of transmitting rabies, or who knows
of an animal that the person suspects is rabid, shall report the incident to
the city animal control authority, or his or her designee within 12 hours of
the bite or scratch.
(b)   The report must include the name and address of the victim and of the
animal’s owner, if known; and any other information that may help in locating
the victim or animal.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-18.   Quarantine of animals.
(a)   Pursuant to state law, the animal control authority, or his or her
designee is authorized to quarantine any animal when there is probable cause to
believe that a person may have been bitten or otherwise exposed to rabies by
that animal.
(b)   The owner of any animal that has been reported to have inflicted a bite
or scratch that is reasonably capable of spreading rabies, on any person, shall
submit said animal for quarantine, as prescribed in this article or state
statute. Refusal to submit said animal constitutes a violation of law and each
day of such refusal shall constitute a separate and individual violation. In
the event the owner refuses or fails to quarantine the animal, the animal
control authority may obtain a warrant to seize and impound the animal
according to the provisions of this article and state law.
(c)   Any cost for quarantine or testing shall be the responsibility of the
owner.
(d)   Any stray dog or cat, or those animals whose owner cannot be located
shall be confined in the animal shelter for a reasonable time and if unclaimed
may be destroyed and the brain of such animal immediately submitted to a
qualified laboratory for rabies examination at the victim’s expense or
quarantined according to the provisions of this section.
(e)   Conditions of quarantine shall be determined by the animal control
authority. The animal control authority shall determine whether confinement
will be in the animal shelter, veterinary hospital, or on the premises of the
owner. Such confinement will be at the owner’s expense. During confinement, an
animal may be inspected at any time by the animal control officer.
(f)   Home quarantine on the premises of the owner shall be only be allowed in
accordance with applicable state laws and regulations and when approved by the
animal control authority. Conditions under which home quarantine will be
considered are as follows:
   (1)   the owner is a city resident;
   (2)   the owner possesses facilities adequate to restrain the animal so as
to prevent exposure of persons or other animals;
   (3)   the animal was not at-large at the time of the exposure;
   (4)   adequate documentation exists that the animal was vaccinated against
rabies in the preceding 12 month period; and
   (5)   the animal currently possesses no apparent symptoms of rabies.
(g)   Any violation of the conditions of home quarantine will require that the
animal be immediately surrendered to the animal control authority for
quarantine according to the provisions of this article.
(h)   It is unlawful for any person to kill or remove from the city limits any
animal that has bitten a person or other animal, or that has been placed under
quarantine without the animal control authority’s approval, except when it is
necessary to kill such animal to protect the life of any person or other
animal.
(i)   The carcass of any dead animal exposed to rabies or suspected of having
rabies; or any dead animal that has bitten or scratched a person or other
animal, must upon demand, be surrendered to the animal control authority.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-19.   Domestic animals exposed to rabies.
Any animal that has been bitten by a rabid animal shall be immediately confined
by the owner who shall promptly notify the animal control authority where the
animal is confined and the reason therefore. The owner shall not permit such
animal to come in contact with any person or animal until such time as the
requirements of state law regarding rabies control are met.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-20.   Release or disposition of quarantined animal.
(a)   If, at the end of the quarantine period, the animal does not show the
clinical sign of rabies, the animal control authority may release the animal
from quarantine upon compliance with vaccination requirement pursuant to state
law.
(b)   If during the quarantine period the animal displays symptoms compatible
with rabies, the animal must be euthanatized and tested for rabies according to
state law.
(c)   Licensed veterinarians must report the results of all rabies quarantine
observations to the animal control officer immediately upon completion of the
quarantine period or upon determination that the animal is showing signs of
rabies.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-21.   Wild, exotic, or dangerous animals.
Those dangerous wild animals which have bitten or scratched a person, shall be
caught and the procedures established by state law and this chapter shall be
followed.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Article V.
Fierce or Dangerous Dogs
Sec. 13-22.   Regulation of fierce or dangerous dogs.
(a)   No person who owns or keeps a dog shall allow the dog to engage in fierce
or dangerous conduct.
(b)   A dog engages in fierce or dangerous conduct when:
   (1) It threatens to attack or terrorizes a person on public or private
property or in a public place, or has behaved in such a manner that the person
who keeps the dog knows, or should reasonably know, that the dog possesses
tendencies to attack or bite persons and occurs in a place other than an
enclosure in which the dog was being kept and that was reasonably certain to
prevent the dog from leaving the enclosure on its own; or
   (2) It attacks and causes serious bodily injury or death to another domestic
animal or livestock on public or private property. It is a defense if the dog
attacking another domestic animal or livestock was kept in an enclosure that
was reasonably certain to prevent the dog from leaving the enclosure; or
restrained in a manner that was reasonably certain to prevent the dog from
leaving the restraint on its own.
    This section shall not apply to dogs that are in the service of law
enforcement agencies or guard dogs restrained as provided herein, or as
excepted pursuant to the Health and Safety Code 822.003(f), as amended.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02, Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-23.   Procedure for impoundment and hearing.
(a)   Upon receiving a report concerning a fierce or dangerous dog, the animal
control officer or police shall obtain the following information:
(1)   name, address, and telephone number of complainant;
(2)   date, time, and location of incident;
(3)   a specification of the facts and circumstances of the incident;
(4)   a description of the dog;
(5)   a statement or report describing how the dog either bit the complainant
or acted in a vicious manner;
(6)   other aggravating facts or circumstances, if any, relating to the
incident.
After a statement or report has been obtained, the dog shall be investigated by
the animal control officer. Upon a showing of probable cause, a complaint may
be filed in municipal court and, if necessary, the dog impounded as a public
nuisance. If impoundment of said dog cannot be made with safety to the animal
control officer, or other persons, the dog may be destroyed without prior
notice to the owner or harborer.
(b)   The court, on receiving a complaint under Section 13-23(a), shall set a
hearing in accordance with State Health and Safety Code Section 822.0423.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-24.   Guard dogs.
Except for dogs used in law enforcement by law enforcement agencies, it shall
be unlawful to place or maintain any dog which is specifically trained to
attack, in any area for the protection of persons or property unless the dog is
physically confined to a specific area within a building, in a fence, or on a
chain of sufficient size and strength to restrain the dog. The area or premises
in which a guard dog is confined must be conspicuously posted with warning
signs bearing letters not less than two inches high and placed not less than
every 25 feet on or adjacent to the structure or barrier which confines the
animal. In no event shall less than one warning sign be conspicuously posted.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-25.   Animal control officer authorized to enforce.
The city’s animal control officer, including his or her lawfully appointed
assistants and designees, are hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of
state law and this chapter regulating dangerous dogs.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-26.   Additional requirements and restrictions for dangerous dogs.
In addition to any applicable requirements set out in state law, the following
requirements and restrictions shall apply to any dog in the city limits
determined by the city municipal court to be a dangerous dog as defined under
state law or this chapter:
(a)   the dog must be spayed or neutered within ten days of the determination
that the dog is a dangerous dog.
(b)   if the dog is subsequently responsible for the death of or serious injury
to any person, the dog will be destroyed pursuant to statute.
(c)   the owner or person harboring a dangerous dog shall have the dog
identified by a microchip or other identifier approved by the animal control
authority, and all identifying information shall be provided to the animal
control authority immediately.
(d)   the dog shall at all times wear a collar and attached tag marked with an
orange color visible at a minimum distance of 50 feet.
(e)   the dog, when taken outside the enclosure required under state law and
this chapter, must be securely muzzled in a manner that will not cause injury
to the animal or impair its vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from
biting any person or animal, and must be restrained by a substantial chain or
cable leash having a minimum tensile strength of 1,000 pounds and not to exceed
six feet in length.
(f)   the owner or person harboring such a dog shall post a sign on the
premises where the animal is located or kept bearing letters not less than two
inches high warning that there is a dangerous dog on the property. The sign, or
multiple signs, if necessary, shall be prominently displayed on the property,
easily visible and capable of being read from each public street or highway
adjacent to the property.
(g)   the secured enclosure for the dog, in addition to the minimum
requirements for such an enclosure contained in state law, must have a top,
must be made of chain link fencing of no more than three inch mesh, must be at
least six feet high, and must be posted with signs on each side of the
enclosure bearing letters not less than two inches high warning of a dangerous
dog, with additional signs for every additional 25 feet of length.
(h)   the Animal Services Division may, as a condition of registration for the
dog, require the owner or person harboring the dog to annually attend a class
on responsible pet ownership conducted by the Animal Services Division or by
the Animal Services Division's designee.
(i)   the city Animal Services Division may inspect the enclosure in which any
dangerous dog is maintained, without notice, at any reasonable hour.
(j)   the city may charge a reasonable fee for the licensing of dangerous dogs,
as established by a separate resolution of the city.
(k)   new restrictions or requirements as to the regulation of dangerous dogs
which were determined to be dangerous dogs prior to the effective date of this
chapter, shall become effective as to said animals on the sixtieth day after
the passage of this chapter as amended.
(l)   the owner of any dog determined to be a dangerous animal by any court or
magistrate, must register the animal with the city animal control authority
within ten days of bringing the animal into this jurisdiction.
(m)   the appeal of any determination by the city municipal court that a dog is
a dangerous dog, will be to the County Court at Law, and will follow the
provisions for appeal from a municipal court judgment as established in the
Texas Government Code.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10; Ord. No. 4054, § 10, 5-
24-16)
Sec. 13-27. Failure to surrender dog.
   It shall be a separate violation for any person to refuse or fail to
surrender a dog as required by this article, or harbor, hide or secret,
transport or secure the transport of a dog subject to impoundment pursuant to
this article, for the purpose of preventing its impoundment.
(Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Article VI.
Regulation of Livestock, Poultry and Birds
Sec. 13-28.   Regulations relating to keeping of poultry and birds.
The following regulations shall govern the keeping of poultry, and certain
birds in the city:
It shall be the duty of any person owning or having within their management or
control, any chickens, turkeys, geese or other poultry, to keep same in an
enclosure upon their own premises at all times. Enclosure shall mean a house or
building, or in case of a fence or structure or pen, it must have secure sides,
top, and a secure bottom. The structure or pen shall provide protection from
the weather.
No chickens, turkeys, geese or other poultry shall be kept in any enclosure
within the city, any part of which enclosure is within 100 feet of any
adjoining property within the city other than the building or dwelling occupied
by the owner of the animals.
This section is not to be construed to prevent owners from keeping pet animals
inside their residence.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-29.   Location of livestock enclosures.
(a)   Save and except as otherwise stated herein, it shall be unlawful for any
owner, keeper, or person to keep, for a period in excess of ten consecutive
days without the approval of the animal control authority, any livestock in any
shed, stable, pen or other enclosure at a distance less than 500 feet from any
adjoining lot or tract of land in any residential district or less than 500
feet from any business establishment or structure, or any building used for
sleeping or dispensing food.
(b)   All such livestock shall be maintained in a properly fenced pen, corral,
or other enclosure.
(c)   Proper animal husbandry practices and sanitation as required by state law
and this chapter shall be maintained.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Article VII.
Enforcement
Sec. 13-30.   Interference with the animal control officer or other officer.
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
obstruct an animal control officer or other officer responsible for enforcement
of this chapter in the discharge of their duties.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-31.   Penalty for violation.
Save and except for violations of this chapter subject to penalties under state
law or otherwise stated within this Chapter, a violation of this chapter shall
be a Class C misdemeanor punishable by a fine in accordance with Section 1-4 of
the Code of Ordinances of the City of Longview.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-32.   Dispensing with requirement of culpable mental state.
The City of Longview City Council hereby dispenses with the requirement of
establishing a culpable mental state in order to prove a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 3141, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord. No. 3728, 11-11-10)
Sec. 13-33.   Trap, Neuter, Release Program Created.
The Animal Services Division for the City of Longview or a designee that is
approved by the manager of the Animal Services Division, the animal control
authority, or any animal control officer, is hereby authorized to trap or
otherwise capture any feral animal, cause that feral animal to be spayed or
neutered, provide necessary vaccinations or other medical care deemed necessary
by the Animal Services Division or the designee of the manager of the Animal
Services Division for the health and welfare of said animal, and then return
the animal into the community as close as possible to the location from which
the animal was taken. This program does not interfere with the authority of any
police officer, animal control officer, or other person designated by the
manager of the Animal Services Division to otherwise exercise any authority
granted pursuant to state law or in Chapter 13.
(Ord. No. 3973, § 2, 2-26-15; Ord. No. 4054, § 11, 5-24-16) 
Article VIII
Microchipping, Sterilization and Breeding of Dogs and Cats
Sec. 13-40.   Microchip required.
All dogs and cats four months of age or older kept, harbored, or maintained
within the city limits must be microchipped with current owner information. A
person commits an offense if the person owns, harbors, or maintains an animal
that is not microchipped as required by this section. An offense under this
section is punishable by a fine of up to $500 in accordance with Section 1-4 of
this code. The municipal court may waive the fine for a person's first offense
upon receipt of verifiable evidence providing the subject animal has been
microchipped as required by this section no more than 30 days from the issuance
of the citation or filing of the complaint, as applicable, provided that the
municipal court may extend that period upon a showing that the person has
scheduled an appointment to have the animal microchipped. Each day during which
a violation of this section continues shall constitude a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 4523, § 4, 11-14-24)
Sec. 13-41   Sterilization required; intact pet permit.
(a) Sterilization required. Except as expressly provided otherwise in this
section, all dogs and cats kept in the city limits must be sterilized. All
sterilization procedures shall be administered by a duly licensed veterinarian.
The owner of such animal must retain documentation of the sterilization of the
animal.
(b) Intact pet permit required. An animal that is the subject of a valid intact
pet permit is not required to be sterilized. A separate intact pet permit is
required for each intact dog or cat six (6) months of age or older.
(c) Application. An application for an intact pet permit must:
   (1) be made on the form prescribed by the animal services manager and
include, at a minimum, the following information:
      i. the name, telephone number, and physical address of the applicant;
      ii. the description of the animal sought to be included under the intact
pet permit and the species, breed, gender, and age of the animal; and
      iii. a statement affirming that the applicant is familiar with the
provisions of this chapter and agrees to maintain all animals in accordance
with the applicable legal requirements;
   (2) be accompanied by photographic evidence, in digital or printed form,
showing the enclosure or enclosures where the intact animal is to be kept;
   (3) be accompanied by the required fee(s); and
   (4) contain such additional information and documantation as the animal
services manager deems necessary to determine whether an intact pet permit
should be issued.
(d) Consideration of application. An intact pet permit may only be issued for a
dog or a cat:
   (1) that is currently in compliance with the microchipping requirements of
this article; and
   (2) that is currently in compliance with the vaccination requirements of
state law and this chapter.
(e) Issuance and maintenance of intact pet permit. An intact pet permit is
issued for an individual animal to an individual person. An intact pet permit
is not transferable to another animal or to another person. To maintain an
intact pet permit, the permit holder must keep the animal control authority
apprised of currect contact information for the permit holder and identifying
and registration information for each animal subject to an intact pet permit.
In particular, a permit holder must notify the animal control authority of any
change of address or telephone number no later than thirty (30) days after the
new address or phone number is effective. In addition, within thirty (30) days
of obtaining an intact animal not subject to an intact pet permit, the permit
holder must provide the animal control authority with the species, breed,
gender and age of such animal. An intact pet permit expires one, two or three
years after the date of issuance, as provided in this section, and may be
renewed by applying in the same manner as applying for a new intact pet permit
in accordance with this section.
(f) Revocation or denial of intact pet permit. The animal services manager
shall deny or revoke an intact pet permit if the animal services manager
determines that the applicant or permit holder;
   (1) failed to submit a complete application for an intact pet permit;
   (2) failed to submit any information or supporting documentation required
under this section;
   (3) provided false or inaccurate information on or in connection with an
application for an intact pet permit;
   (4) failed to submit any fee required by this section;
   (5) has previously had an intact pet permit revoked;
   (6) resides at the same physical address as another individual whose intact
pet permit has been revoked;
   (7) failed to vaccinate any animal in accordance with the requirements of
state law or this chapter;
   (8) failed, within thirty (30) days of when requested by the animal control
authority to do so, to provide a current statement affirming that the applicant
is familiar with the provisions of this chapter and agrees to maintain all
animals in accordance with the applicable legal requirements; or
   (9) failed to comply with any provision of this article.
Revocation or denial of an intact pet permit will not result in the refund of
any permit or application fees.
(g) Exemptions. The following animals are exempt from the requirements of this
section:
   (1) an animal under six (6) months of age;
   (2) an animal for which a licensed veterinarian provides a letter of
exemption certifying that the animal should not be sterilized for health
reasons or is permanently infertile if the letter of exemption includes, at the
minimum, all of the following:
      i. name of the dog/cat;
      ii. breed of the dog/cat;
      iii. the full name and address of the animal's owner;
      iv. the microchip information linking the animal to the owner; and
      v. a statement that the letter of exemption expires one (1) year from the
date of issuance or a statement that the condition for which the exemption is
granted is permanent and that the letter of exemption will remain valid for the
life of the animal;
   (3) an animal transferred to another animal shelter or a nonprofit 501(c)(3)
organization that provides a written agreement to the city that the animal will
be sterilized before being placed into a new home;
   (4) an animal that is verified as formally trained for use by or under the
authority of a governmental agency in law enforcement or rescue work;
   (5) an animal that is verified as formally trained for use as a certified
service animal;
   (6) an animal that is subject of a valid breeding permit; and
   (7) an animal owned by a state-licensed breeder.
(h) Evidence of intact pet permit. The owner of an animal that is the subject
of an intact pet permit must ratain documentation of the intact pet permit in a
condition so that all dates and identifying information are easily legible by
law enforcement or animal control officers.
(i) Fees. Fees for an intact pet permit shall be established by resolution of
the city council and paid directly to the animal control authority, which shall
maintain a database for all issued intact pet permits. Fees paid in association
with an intact pet permit are non-refundable and non-transferable. Intact pet
permits may be purchased on a basis of 1,2, or 3 years. The intact pet permit
shall state the date of expiration which is to coincide with the number of
years purchased at time of payment.
(j) Offenses.
   (1) A person commits an offense if the person owns, harbors, or maintains
any intact fog or cat six (6) months of age or older unless the animals is
subject to a valid intact pet permit issued in accordance with this section.
   (2) A person commits an offense if the person advertises for sale within the
city an intact dog or cat six (6) months of age or older and fails to include
in such advertisement the identification number of the animal's valid intact
pet permit.
   (3) An offense under this section is punishable by a fine of up to $500 in
accordance with section 1-4 of this code. The municipal court may waive the
fine for a person's first offense upon receipt of verifiable evidence proving
the subject animal has been sterilized by a licensed veterinarian no more than
30 days from the issuance of the citation or filing of the complaint, as
applicable, provided that the municipal court may extend that period upon a
showing that the person has scheduled an appointment to have the animal
sterilized. Upon conviction of a second or subsequent offense, the municipal
court may revoke the intact pet permit. Revocation of an intact pet permit by
the municipal court is final and will not result in the refund of any permit or
application fees. Each day during which a violation of this section continues
shall constitude a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 4523, § 4, 11-14-24)
Sec. 13-42.   Breeding permit.
(a) Breeding permit required. A separate breeding permit is required for each
dog or cat that a person keeps intact for breeding purposes.
(b) Application. An application for a breeding permit must:
   (1) be made on the form prescribed by the animal services manager and
include, at a minimum, the following information:
      i. the name, telephone number, and physical address of the applicant;
      ii. the description of the animal sought to be included under the
breeding permit, including but not limited to a photograph of the animal, and
the species, breed, gender, and age of the animal; and
      iii. a statement affirming that the applicant is familiar with the
provisions of this chapter and agrees to maintain all animals in accordance
with the applicable legal requirements;
   (2) state the location where the animal is harbored, accompanied by
photographic evidence, in digital or printed form, showing the enclosure or
enclosures where the animal is to be kept;
   (3) be accompanied by the required fee(s);
   (4) be accompanied by proof that the animal has been approved to breed by a
licensed veterinarian as required in this section; and
   (5) be accompanied by such additional information and documentation as the
animal services manager deems necessary for the enforcement and administration
of this section.
(c) Consideration of application. A breeding permit may only be issued for a
dog or a cat:
   (1) that is currently in compliance with the microchipping requirements of
this article;
   (2) that is currently in compliance with the vaccination requirements of
state law and this chapter;
   (3) that, not more than ninety (90) days before the date of the breeding
permit application, has been approved to breed by a licensed veterinarian; and
   (4) whose owner is a member of a purebred dog or cat club, approved by the
animal services manager, that maintains and enforces a code of ethics for
breeding that includes restrictions on breeding dogs and cats with genetic
defects and life threatening health problems common to the breed.
(d) Issuance and maintenance of breeding permit. A breeding permit is issued
for an individual animal to an individual person. A breeding permit is not
transferable to another animal or to another person. To maintain a breeding
permit, the permit holder must keep the animal control authority apprised of
current contact information for the permit holder and identifying and
registration information for each animal subject to a breeding permit. In
particular, a permit holder must notify the animal control authority of any
change of address or telephone number no later than thirty (30) days after the
new address or phone number is eefective. In addition, within thirty (30) days
of obtaining and intact animal not subject to a breeding permit, the permit
holder must provide the animal control authority with the species, breed,
gender, and age of such animal. A breeding permit expires one, two or three
years after the date of issuance, as provided in this section, and may be
renewed by applying in the same manner as applying for a new breeding permit in
accordance with this section.
(e) Revocation or denial of breeding permit. The animal services manager shall
deny or revoke a breeding permit if the animal services manager determines that
the applicant or permit holder:
   (1) failed to submit a complete application for a breeding permit;
   (2) failed to submit any information or supporting documentation required
under this section;
   (3) provided false or inaccurate information on or in connection with an
application for a breeding permit;
   (4) failed to submit any fee required by this section;
   (5) has previously had a breeding permit revoked;
   (6) resides at the same physical address as another individual whose
breeding permit has been revoked;
   (7) failed to vaccinate any animal in accordance with the requirements of
state law or this chapter;
   (8) failed, within thirty (30) days of when requested by the animal control
authority to do so, to provide a current statement affirming that the applicant
is familiar with the provisions of this chapter and agrees to maintain all
animals in accordance with the applicable legal requirements; or
   (9) failed to comply with any provision of this article.
Revocation or denial of a breeding permit will not result in the refund of any
permit or application fees.
(f) Exemptions. A state-licensed breeder and any animals owned by that state-
licensed breeder are exempt from the requirements of this section; provided,
however, that the person must provide such proof as the animal services manager
may reasonably require of the person's currently valid status as a state-
licensed breeder.
(g) Evidence of breeding permit. The owner of an animal that is the subject of
a breeding permit must retain documentation of the breeding permit in a
condition so that all dates and identifying information are easily legible by
law enforcement or animal control officers.
(h) Fees. Fees for breeding permits shall be stablished by resolution of the
city council and paid directly to the animal control authority, which shall
maintain a database for all issued breeding permits. Fees paid in association
with a breeding permit are non-refundable and non-transferable. Breeding
permits may be purchased on a basis of 1,2, or 3 years. The breeding permit
shall state the date of expiration which is to coincide with the number of
years purchased at time of payment.
(i) Offenses.
   (1) A breeding permit holder commits an offense if the breeding permit
holder allows a female dog or cat subject to breeding permit to have more than
two litters during any one-year term of the breeding permit. For a breeding
permit that is valid for a period of two or three years, each full year shall
constitute a one-year term, with the first term beginning on the date of
issuance.
   (2) A person commits an offense if the person breeds or allows the breeding
of a dog or cat without a valid breeding permit for the animal.
   (3) An offense under this section is punishable by a fine of up to $500 in
accordance with Section 1-4 of this code. The municipal court may waive the
fine for a person's first offense upon receipt of verifiable evidence proving
the subject animal has been sterilized by a licensed veterinarian no more than
30 days from the issuance of the citation or filing of the complaint, as
applicable, provided that the municipal court may extend that period upon a
showing that the person has scheduled an appointment to have the animal
sterilized. Upon conviction of a second or subsequent offense, the municipal
court may revoke the breeding permit. Revocation of a breeding permit by the
municipal court is final and will not result in the refund of any permit or
application fees.
(Ord. No. 4523, § 4, 11-14-24)
Sec. 13-43.   Appeals.
If the animal services manager denies or revokes an intact pet permit or a
breeding permit, the animal services manager shall notify the applicant or
permit holder in writting of the action and include in the notice a statement
of the right to an appeal. The applicant or permit holder may appeal the
decision of the animal services manager in writing to the city manager or city
manager's designee within (30) days of the date of the decision of the animal
services manager. The filing of an appeal stays an action of the animal
services manager in revoking a permit until the city manager or the city
manager's designee makes a final decision. The decision of the city manager or
the city manager's designee shall be final and non-appealable. The city manager
or the city manager's designee may grant or reinstate the permit pursuant to
its original terms, grant or reinstate the permit subject to additional
specified conditions; or affirm the denial or revocation of the permit.
Revocation or denial of a permit will not result in the refund of any permit or
application fees.
(Ord. No. 4523, § 4, 11-14-24)
 
Chapters 14 - 15
Reserved
Chapter 16
Bicycles
Sec.
16-1.   Lamps required.
Sec.
16-2.    Riders subject to traffic regulations applicable to drivers of
vehicles.
Sec.
16-3.   Riders not to catch hold of other moving vehicles.
Sec.
16-4.   Carrying other persons on handlebars or frame forbidden.
Sec.
16-5.   Riding more than two abreast.
Sec.
16-6.   Carrying packages or articles.
Sec.
16-7.   Riding without hands on handlebars; stunt riding; racing.
Sec.
16-8.   Riding on sidewalk.
Sec. 16-1. Lamps required.
Every bicycle operated after sunset and before sunrise shall be equipped with a
lamp on the front, exhibiting a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front, and with a lamp on the rear exhibiting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear; except that a red reflector
may be used in lieu of a rear light.
(Code 1943, Art. 38-1)
Sec. 16-2. Riders subject to traffic regulations applicable to drivers of
vehicles.
Every person riding a bicycle upon the streets of the city shall be subject to
the provisions of all ordinances applicable to the driver of any vehicle,
except those provisions of ordinances which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Code 1943, Art. 38-2)
Sec. 16-3. Riders not to catch hold of other moving vehicles.
Any person riding upon any bicycle shall not attach the same or himself, to any
streetcar or moving vehicle upon any street or roadway in the city.
(Code 1943, Art. 38-3)
Sec. 16-4. Carrying other persons on handlebars or frame forbidden.
The operator of any bicycle, when in use on a street in the city shall not
carry any other person upon the handlebars or frame of any such vehicle, nor
shall any other person so ride upon any such vehicle.
(Code 1943, Art. 38-4)
Sec. 16-5. Riding more than two abreast.
Persons riding bicycles upon the streets of the city shall not ride more than
two abreast, except on paths or parts of streets, or places set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
(Code 1943, Art. 38-5)
Sec. 16-6. Carrying packages or articles.
No person riding a bicycle shall carry any packages, bundles or articles of any
kind that would prevent the rider from having complete control of such bicycle,
and no rider or operator of such bicycle shall carry in one hand any packages,
bundles or articles while operating such bicycle, but such packages, bundles or
articles shall be carried in a basket, or a bag, attached to such bicycle so
that the operator or rider of the bicycle will have the use of both hands for
the operation and control of same, and so that the rider or operator will not
be endangered, or his position made unsafe upon the streets.
(Code 1943, Art. 38-6)
Sec. 16-7. Riding without hands on handlebars; stunt riding; racing.
No rider of any bicycle shall remove both hands from the handlebars, or feet
from the pedals, or practice any acrobatic or stunt riding upon any streets,
nor shall any person operating a bicycle upon a street participate in any race
for speed or any endurance contest.
(Code 1943, Art. 38-7)
Sec. 16-8. Riding on sidewalk.
No person shall ride a bicycle upon any sidewalk in the city.
(Code 1943, Art. 38-8)
Chapters 17 - 18
Reserved
Chapter 19
Buildings and Structures
Article I. Reserved
Article II. Reserved
 
Article III. Substandard and Dangerous Buildings
Sec.
19-49.   Statutory authority.
Sec.
19-50.   Definitions.
Sec.
19-51.   Public nuisance declared.
Sec.
19-52.   Hearing Procedures.
Sec.
19-53.   Actions by the city.
Sec.
19-54.   Duties of the Building Official.
Sec.
19-55.   Authority of the City Attorney.
Sec.
19-56.   Remedies and enforcement.
Secs.
19-57 - 19-80. Reserved.
Article IV. Secured Building Permit
Sec.
19-81.   Secured building permit created.
Sec.
19-82.   Application; criteria for issuance.
Sec.
19-83.   Effect of issuance of a secured building permit.
Sec.
19-84.   Maintaining a secured building permit.
Sec.
19-85.   Permit fees.
Sec.
19-86.   Permit duration.
Sec.
19-87.   Permit renewal.
Sec.
19-88.   Reoccupation of a secured building.
Sec.
19-89.   Penalties.
Secs.
19-90 - 19.99.  Reserved
Article V. Mechanical Code
Sec.
19-100.   Standard Mechanical Code adopted.
Sec.
19-101.   Modifications.
Secs.
19-102 - 19-111.  Reserved.
Article VI. Multi-family Housing
Sec.
19-112.   Code reference.
Sec.
19-113.   Purpose of article.
Sec.
19-114.   Definitions.
Sec.
19-115.   License required.
Sec.
19-116.   Application.
Sec.
19-117.   Fees.
Sec.
19-118.   Posting of fees.
Sec.
19-119.   Licenses - Duration.
Sec.
19-120.   Inspections.
Sec.
19-121.   Minimum standards for multi-family dwelling complexes.
Sec.
19-122.   Minimum responsibilities of occupant.
Sec.
19-123.   Landlord/tenant inspections.
Sec.
19-124.   Compliance with applicable codes.
Sec.
19-125.   False statement.
Sec.
19-126.   Enforcement authority and responsibility.
Sec.
19-127.   Failure to comply.
Sec.
19-128.   Administrative process.
Sec.
19-129.   Enforcement.
Article VII. Public Swimming Pools and Spas
Sec.
19-130.   Adoption of Texas Department of State Health Services Standards for
Public Swimming Pools and Spas.
Sec.
19-131.   Definitions.
Sec.
19-132.   Pool permits.
Sec.
19-133.   Pool permit application.
Sec.
19-134.   Fees.
Sec.
19-135.   Posting of pool permits.
Sec.
19-136.   Permits - Duration.
Sec.
19-137.   Review of plans.
Sec.
19-138.   Inspections.
Sec.
19-139.   Safety equipment.
Sec.
19-140.   Warning signs.
Sec.
19-141.   Depth markings.
Sec.
19-142.   Regulations in pool/spa area.
Sec.
19-143.   Interface with posting.
Sec.
19-144.   False statement.
Sec.
19-145.   Enforcement authority and responsibility.
Sec.
19-146.   Closure of pool or spa.
Sec.
19-147.   Filling of pools and spas.
Sec.
19-148.   Criminal penalties.
Sec.
19-149.   Other remedies reserved.
Secs.
19-150 - 19-170. Reserved.
Article VIII. Residential Code
Sec.
19-171.   Residential code adopted.
Sec.
19-172.   Modifications.
Secs.
19-173 - 19.199.  Reserved.
Article IX. Energy Conservation Code
Sec.
19-200.   Energy conservation code adopted.
Sec.
19-201.   Modifications.
Secs.
19-202 - 19-220.  Reserved.
Article X. Existing Building Code
Sec.
19-221.   Existing building code adopted.
Sec.
19-222.   Modifications.
Article XI. Property Maintenance Code
Sec.
19-241.   Property maintenance code adopted.
Sec.
19-242.   Modifications.
Article I.
Reserved
Article II.
Reserved
Article III.
Substandard and Dangerous Buildings
Sec. 19-49. Statutory authority.
This article is intended to adopt and implement in the broadest possible terms
the powers, duties, and authorities set out in Subchapters B and C to Chapter
54 of the Texas Local Government Code, Sections 214.001 and 214.003 of
Subchapter A to Chapter 214 of the Texas Local Government Code, and Texas
Government Code Section 30.00005 (d), as said statutes apply to the subject
matter of this article, and as otherwise stated herein, as well as the home
rule powers granted the city as a home rule city by its Charter and state law.
Provisions of this article shall not be narrowly construed, but shall be
broadly applied to accomplish the stated purposes of this article.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 2, 1-13-00; Ord. No. 3113, § 2, 3-21-02)
Sec. 19-50. Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Building Official. The term “Building Official” shall mean the person or
persons designated by the City Manager to enforce the provisions of this
article.
   Court or civil municipal court. The term “court” or “civil municipal court”
shall mean, unless otherwise specified, the Civil Municipal Court of Record
created under Chapter 28 of this code.
   Dangerous building or structure. The term “dangerous building or structure”
shall mean all buildings or structures which have any of the following defects
or lack of facilities:
   a.   all buildings or structures that have become deteriorated through
natural causes or by damage through exposure to the elements, especially wind,
hail or rain, or damage through fire to the extent that the roof, windows or
doors, or portions of the house, building or structure which protect the
interior from the weather, would no longer reasonably protect from the weather.
   b.   all buildings or structures which are so structurally deteriorated that
they are in danger of collapse, or which cannot be expected to withstand the
forces of nature.
   c.   all buildings or structures not wired so as to provide in operating
condition electrical circuits sufficient to safely carry a load imposed by
normal use of appliances and fixtures.
   d.   all buildings or structures of which the floors, walls, ceilings, and
all supporting members are not capable of bearing imposed loads safely.
   e.   all buildings or structures so deteriorated or constructed or permitted
to be constructed as to constitute a menace to the health or safety, including
all conditions conducive to the harboring of rats or mice or other disease-
carrying animals or insects, reasonably calculated to spread disease, and
including such conditions hazardous to safety as inadequate bracing or use of
deteriorated materials.
   f.   all buildings or structures which constitute or in which are maintained
fire hazards as that term is defined by the ordinances of the City of Longview,
Texas.
   g.   all buildings or structures substantially in noncompliance with the
requirements of the city’s building code, electrical code, plumbing code, fire
code, property maintenance code, or other applicable codes of the City of
Longview such that said buildings or structures constitute a menace or hazard
to the public health or safety.
   h.   all buildings or structures so dilapidated or substandard as to be
unfit for human habitation.
   i.   all buildings or structures which, because of activities involving the
sale, use, or abuse on said premises of illicit drugs or alcohol or other
similar activities as certified to by the Chief of Police, or the Fire Marshal,
or the environmental health officer, or their designee, constitute a fire
hazard or a menace to the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
City of Longview.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 2, 1-13-00; Ord. No. 3113, § 3, 3-21-02; Ord No. 3525, § 15,
6-14-07; Ord. No. 4045, § 3, 3-24-16)
Sec. 19-51. Public nuisance declared.
All dangerous buildings or structures which shall constitute a menace to the
health, morals, safety or general welfare of their occupants or of the general
public are declared to be public nuisances and shall be ordered to be vacated,
removed, repaired, secured, or demolished as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 2, 1-13-00)
Sec. 19-52. Hearing procedures.
(a)   The court shall, upon due notice as set out herein, conduct proceedings
to implement and enforce provisions of this article.
(b)   The court shall establish procedures for use in hearings, providing ample
opportunity for presentation of evidence and testimony by respondents or
persons opposing charges brought by the city or its building officials relating
to alleged violations of this article.
(c)   The City Attorney's office shall present all cases before the court.
(d)   In the conduct of all proceedings before the court, the purpose of such
proceedings shall be to determine whether or not a building or structure
complies with the standards set out in this article. Precedent to any such
proceedings the city shall make a diligent effort to identify the owner or
owners of the building or structure under review and likewise shall make a
diligent effort to discover each mortgagee and lienholder. Before conducting
the proceedings, the city shall notify each owner or owners of the building or
structure under review as well as each mortgagee and lienholder which the city
could reasonably identify and shall give an opportunity to both the owner and
the mortgagee or lienholder to appear at the proceeding. Any order issued by
the court pursuant to said proceeding shall specify a reasonable time for the
building to be vacated, secured, repaired, removed, or demolished by the owner
or for the occupants to be relocated by the owner and an additional reasonable
time for the ordered action to be taken by any of the mortgagees or lienholders
in the event the owner fails to comply with the order within the timeframe
provided for action by the owner. The city is not required to furnish any
notice to a mortgagee or lienholder other than a copy of the order in the event
the owner fails to timely take the ordered action. Subsequent to each
proceeding, the court shall make written findings of fact as to whether or not
the building or structure under review is in fact a dangerous building as that
term is defined herein.
(e)   If the court finds that the building or structure is a dangerous building
or structure as defined in Section 19-50 of this article, the court shall issue
an order to vacate, secure, repair, remove or demolish said building or
structure, as appropriate. As necessary, the court may also issue a warrant
authorizing the city to vacate, secure, repair, remove or demolish said
building or structure as appropriate, after the time has expired for the owner,
mortgagee, or lienholder to take the ordered actions.
(f)   In addition to written findings of fact as required herein, the court
shall keep a record of its proceedings and official actions.
(g)   Notice.
   (1)   Unless other requirements are specified herein, notice of all
proceedings before the court must be given:
      a.   by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the record owners of
the affected property, and to each holder of a recorded lien against the
affected property, as shown by the records in the office of the County Clerk of
the county in which the affected property is located if the address of the
lienholder can be ascertained from the deed of trust establishing the lien or
from other applicable instruments on file in the office of the County Clerk;
      b.   to all unknown owners, by posting a copy of the notice on the front
door of each improvement situated on the affected property or as close to the
front door as practicable; and
      c.   by filing the notice in the official public record of real property
in the county in which the property is located.
   (2)   The notice shall be mailed and posted before the tenth day before the
date of the proceeding before the court and must state the date, time, and
place of the proceeding. In addition, the notice shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city on one occasion before the tenth
day before the date fixed for the hearing.
   (3)   All notices sent by mail shall contain as a minimum the following:
      a.   an identification, which is not required to be a legal description,
of the building and the property on which it is located;
      b.   a description of the violation of city codes or articles that exist
at the building; and
      c.   a statement that the city will vacate, secure, repair, remove, or
demolish the building if ordered action is not taken within a reasonable time.
   (4)   Following each proceeding, the court shall issue an order and a
warrant containing provisions as set out herein which shall be mailed, filed,
and published in accordance with subsection (k)(1) of this section. Each such
order shall specify the action to be taken as part of the notice and shall
specify a reasonable time within which the owner is to take such action. The
order shall provide further notice and specify an additional reasonable time
within which any mortgagee or lienholder may undertake the ordered action in
the event the owner fails to comply with the order within the time specified
for action by the owner. The city shall not be required to furnish any notice
to a mortgagee or lienholder other than a copy of the order in the event the
owner fails to timely take the ordered action. The city may immediately proceed
with actions authorized in the order; provided, however, that the city may
obtain a warrant for any such actions and shall obtain a warrant for any
actions for which a warrant is required by law. The court may issue any and all
warrants that the court has authority to issue under state and federal law.
(h)   Authority of the court. Following notice and hearing, the court may:
   (1)   declare a building dangerous in accordance with the standards set out
in this article;
   (2)   upon a proper showing as set out herein, issue an order specifying a
reasonable time for the building or other structure to be vacated, secured,
repaired, removed or demolished by the owner or upon the refusal of the owner
to comply, by the mortgagee or lienholder. The court may also issue a warrant
authorizing the city to vacate, secure, repair, remove or demolish said
building or structure as appropriate after the time has expired for the owner,
mortgagee, or lienholder to take the ordered actions; or
   (3)   upon a finding that the owner was actually notified of the provisions
of this article and any other applicable city building standards, and a further
finding that after the owner received notice of the article's provisions, the
owner committed acts in violation of the article or failed to take action
necessary for compliance with the article, the court then may determine the
amount and duration of a civil penalty which the city may be entitled to
recover for such violations, not to exceed $1,000.00 a day for each violation
of this article.
(i)   Standards. The following standards shall be applied by the court in
determining whether or not to order a building or structure repaired, removed,
vacated, demolished, or secured, or a combination of such remedies:
   (1)   If the dangerous building or structure can be reasonably repaired so
that it will no longer be in a condition which is in violation of this article,
it shall be ordered repaired.
   (2)   If the dangerous building or structure is in such condition as to make
it dangerous to the health, safety, or general welfare of its occupants or of
the public, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
   (3)   In any case where a dangerous building or structure is so damaged or
destroyed that it cannot be repaired so that its existence will no longer be in
violation of the terms of this article, it shall be ordered demolished or
removed.
   (4)   If open to the public such as to constitute a threat to public health
or safety, the court may order such building secured by such means as the court
shall deem appropriate.
   (5)   If the court finds that the building or structure is unoccupied and is
a dangerous building or structure as defined herein, the court shall issue an
order and/or warrant ordering the termination of utility service.
(j)   Civil penalties final.
   (1)   An assessment of a civil penalty by the court as provided in this
article is final and binding and constitutes prima facie evidence of the
penalty in any court of competent jurisdiction in a civil suit brought by the
city for final judgement as provided elsewhere herein.
   (2)   To enforce any civil penalty as assessed hereunder, the City Secretary
shall file with the district clerk of the appropriate county wherein the
property is located a certified copy of the court's order establishing the
amount and duration of the civil penalty. No other proof is required for a
district court to enter final judgement on said penalty.
(k)   Judicial review of decisions.
   (1)   Any persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any decision of the
civil municipal court may present a petition to a district court, duly
verified, setting forth that the decision is illegal, in whole or in part, and
specifying the grounds of the illegality. The petition must be presented to the
district court within 30 calendar days after the date a copy of the final
decision and order of the civil municipal court is mailed by first class mail,
certified, return receipt requested, to all persons entitled to receive notice
as provided herein. The civil municipal court shall mail that copy promptly
after the decision becomes final. In addition, a copy shall be published one
time in a newspaper of general circulation in the city within ten calendar days
after the date of the mailing of the copy as provided herein, and a copy shall
also be filed in the office of the City Secretary.
   (2)   On presentation of the petition, the district court may allow a writ
of certiorari directed to the civil municipal court to review the decision of
the civil municipal court and shall prescribe in the writ the time, which may
not be less than ten days, within which a return on the writ must be made and
served on the relator or the relator's attorney.
   (3)   The civil municipal court may not be required to return the original
papers acted on by it. It is sufficient for the civil municipal court to return
certified or sworn copies of the papers or parts of the papers as may be called
for by the writ.
   (4)   The return must concisely set forth other facts as may be pertinent
and material to show the grounds for the decision appealed from and shall be
verified.
   (5)   The allowance of the writ does not stay proceedings on the decision
appealed from, but the district court and for due cause shown, may grant a
restraining order or injunction.
   (6)   If, on a hearing by the district court, it appears to the district
court that testimony is necessary for the proper disposition of the matter, the
district court may take evidence or appoint a referee to take evidence as it
may direct and report the evidence to the district court with the referee's
findings of fact and conclusions of law, which constitute a part of the
proceedings on which the determination of the district court shall be made. The
district court may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may modify the
decision brought up for review.
   (7)   Costs may not be allowed against the city unless it appears to the
district court that the city acted with gross negligence, in bad faith, or with
malice in making the decision appealed from.
   (8)   If the decision of the civil municipal court is affirmed or not
substantially reversed but only modified, the district court shall allow to the
city all attorneys fees and other costs and expenses incurred by it and shall
enter a judgment for those items, which may be entered against the property
owners as well as all persons found to be in occupation of the property subject
to the proceedings before the civil municipal court.
(l)   Civil municipal court's decision final. If no appeals are taken to a
court of proper jurisdiction from the decision of the civil municipal court
within the required period as specified herein, the decision of the civil
municipal court is, in all things, final and binding.
(m)   Lien; abstract.
   (1)   An abstract of judgment shall be issued against all parties found to
be the owners of the subject property or in possession of the property.
   (2)   A lienholder shall not have standing to bring a judicial review as
provided herein on the grounds that the lienholder was not notified of the
proceedings before the civil municipal court or was unaware of the condition of
the property, unless the lienholder had first appeared before the civil
municipal court and entered an appearance in opposition to the proceedings.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 2, 1-13-00; Ord. No. 3113, § 4, 3-21-02)
Sec. 19-53. Actions by the city.
(a)   If a building or structure is not vacated, secured, repaired, removed, or
demolished in accordance with an order of the court, the city may vacate,
secure, remove, repair, or demolish the building; provided, however, that the
city may obtain a warrant from the court for any such action and shall obtain a
warrant where so required by state of federal law.
(b)   If the city incurs expenses under this section, the city may assess the
expenses on, and the city shall have a lien against, unless it is a homestead
as protected by the Texas Constitution, the property on which the building or
structure is located. The lien is extinguished if the property owner or other
person having an interest in the legal title to the property reimburses the
city for the expenses. The lien arises and attaches to the property at the time
the notice of the lien is recorded and indexed in the office of the County
Clerk in the county in which the property is located. The notice must contain
the name and address of the owner if that information can be determined with a
reasonable effort, a legal description of the real property on which the
building or structure is located, the amount of expenses incurred by the city,
and the balance then due.
(c)   If notice is given and the opportunity to repair, remove, demolish, or
secure the building is afforded to each mortgagee and lienholder as authorized
herein, the lien shall be a privileged lien subordinate only to tax liens and
all previously recorded bona fide mortgage liens attached to the real property
to which the city's lien attaches.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 2, 1-13-00; Ord. No. 3113, § 5, 3-21-02)
Sec. 19-54. Duties of the Building Official.
The Building Official shall:
(1)   Inspect or cause to be inspected any building or structure situated
within the city in which the Building Official has reason to believe that
conditions exist which render such structure a dangerous building as that term
is defined herein.
(2)   If, upon inspection and investigation, the Building Official finds that
the building or structure is a dangerous building as that term is defined
herein, the Building Official shall issue a notice, which such notice shall in
all things comply with the terms and provisions of Section 19-52(g) of this
article, advising any person interested in such dangerous building or
structure, or his or her authorized agent or representative, and all
lienholders of notice, to appear and show cause why the court should not issue
an order for action against such building or structure in accordance with this
article.
(3)   Place a notice on said dangerous building or structure to read
substantially as follows:
   NOTICE - DANGEROUS BUILDING.
   The city has deemed this building to be unsafe for occupancy or use. Do not
remove this notice. Removal of this notice is punishable by a maximum fine of
TWO THOUSAND DOLLARS ($2,000.00).
(4)   Appear at all hearings conducted by the court, testify as to the
condition of dangerous or substandard buildings at such hearings, and perform
all other staff-related functions in support of the activities of the court.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 2, 1-13-00; Ord. No. 3113, § 6, 3-21-02)
Sec. 19-55. Authority of the City Attorney.
The City Attorney is hereby authorized and it shall be the duty of the City
Attorney of the city without further authorization of the City Council to
undertake, by all legal means appropriate or necessary, the enforcement of this
article, including, but not limited to enforcement in municipal court, filing
of appropriate civil actions in courts of appropriate jurisdiction to seek
compliance with said orders, or defending the city from suit if suit is taken
to appeal any action of the city.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 2, 1-13-00)
Sec. 19-56. Remedies and enforcement.
(a)   Nonexclusive. The remedies and penalties set out herein are intended to
be non-exclusive; that is, they shall be construed to not exclude the city from
seeking any and all remedies at law or equity to which the city may be entitled
under state law or otherwise, and the remedies as set out herein shall be
considered in addition to and cumulative of such remedies as set out under
state law.
(b)   Criminal penalties in municipal court.
   (1)   The owner, occupant, lessee, agent, or any other person subject to any
notice and order issued by the court under this article who shall fail to
comply with said order to repair, remove, demolish, or secure such building or
structure, or any person who shall willfully refuse or fail to leave a building
which has been ordered vacated under the terms of this article or who shall
enter an area around such building that the court has declared to be dangerous,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as
provided in Section 1-4 of this Code. Each and every day's violation shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   (2)   In case the owner or occupant of any dangerous building or structure
ordered vacated, repaired, removed, demolished, or secured under the terms of
this article shall be a corporation and shall violate any of the provisions of
this article, the president, the vice president, the secretary, or treasurer of
such corporation or any manager or agent of such corporation shall be severally
liable for the penalties herein provided.
   (3)   Any person removing the notice provided for in this article from the
building or structure shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to
the penalties set forth in Section 1-4 of this Code.
(c)   Civil action authorized.
   (1)   Remedies authorized. The City Attorney may in his or her discretion
seek any and all remedies authorized under state law, including without
limitation the provisions of Chapters 54 and 214 of the Local Government Code.
Such remedies may include, but are not limited to injunctive relief,
enforcement and collection of civil penalties authorized under this article, an
action to compel the repair, demolition, or securing of any building or
structure, recovery of all costs of the city, including court costs and
attorneys fees, appointment of a receiver to administer any non-compliant
property in accordance with Section 214.003 of the Local Government Code, and
any and all other remedies actionable to the city under law or equity.
   (2)   Lis pendens authorized. The City Attorney may file a notice of lis
pendens in the office of the County Clerk regarding such action. If the city
files such notice, a subsequent purchaser or mortgagee who acquires an interest
in the non-compliant property takes the property subject to the enforcement
proceeding of the city and subsequent orders of any court.
(d)   Buildings or structures secured by the city. For any building or
structure which the city itself wishes to secure in accordance with this
article, following such securing of said building or structure the city shall
undertake the following procedure:
   (1)   Before the 11th day after the date the building is secured, the city
shall give notice to the owner of said property by:
      a.   personally serving the owner with written notice;
      b.   depositing the notice in the U. S. mail addressed to the owner at
the owner's post office address;
      c.   publishing the notice at least twice within a ten day period in a
newspaper of general circulation in the county in which the building is located
if personal service cannot be obtained and the owner's post office address is
unknown; or
      d.   posting the notice on or near the front door of the building if
personal service cannot be obtained and the owner's post office address is
unknown.
   (2)   The notice must contain:
      a.   an identification, which is not required to be a legal description,
of the building and the property on which it is located;
      b.   a description of the violation of this article that is present on
the premises;
      c.   a statement that the city will secure or has secured, as the case
may be, the building or other structure; and
      d.   an explanation of the owner's entitlement to request a hearing about
any matter relating to the city's securing of the building.
   (3)   The city shall conduct a hearing before the court at which the owner
may testify or present witnesses or written information about any matter
relating to the city's securing of the building if, before the expiration of 30
days after the date the city secures the building, the owner files with the
city a written request for the hearing. The court shall conduct a hearing
within 30 days after such a request is filed. After the hearing, if the court
finds that the building is a dangerous building, as defined in this article,
the court may issue an order to secure said building. If the court finds that
the building is not a dangerous building, as defined in this article, and if so
requested by the owner, the court shall issue an order to the city to unsecure
the building.
   (4)   The court may issue warrants for the securing of buildings either
before or after the hearing described in this section has been conducted;
provided, however, that the court shall comply with any and all requirements of
state and/or federal law applicable to the issuance of such warrants.
   (5)   The city has the same authority to assess expenses under this section
as it has to assess expenses under Section 19-53 herein. A lien is created
under this section in the same manner that a lien is created under Section 19-
53 and is subject to the same conditions as a lien created under that section.
   (6)   The city may provide the notice required by this section and the court
may conduct the hearing required herein before securing a dangerous building or
structure and both shall do so if required by state or federal law.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 2, 1-13-00; Ord. No. 3113, § 7, 3-21-02)
Secs. 19-57 - 19-80. Reserved.
Article IV.
Secured Building Permit
Sec. 19-81. Secured building permit created.
A property owner may, upon proper application and satisfaction of all
requirements of this article, obtain a secured building permit for any
qualified building within the city limits of the City of Longview, Texas. The
issuance of a permit as authorized herein is a privilege and not a matter of
right.
Sec. 19-82. Application; criteria for issuance.
Application for a secured building permit shall be made to the office of the
chief Building Official of the City of Longview, Texas, on forms as the
Building Official shall require. To qualify for the issuance of a secured
building permit, the owner and the property proposed for permitting shall
satisfy all of the following requirements:
(1)   The building shall be structurally sound, including sound structural
supports and support members and a structurally sound roof such that the
property is not in danger of collapse, does not experience deterioration from
the weather or the elements, and does not constitute an immediate or long-term
threat or menace to the health or safety. The Building Official, or on proper
appeal, the Building and Standards Commission of the City of Longview, shall
determine the standards for and shall adjudge the structural soundness of a
particular building or structure for which a secured building permit is sought.
(2)   At the time of application, and during the entire term of the permit, the
building shall remain vacant.
(3)   At the time of the application, and during the entire term of the permit,
all utilities shall be disconnected from the premises.
(4)   At the time of the application, and during the entire term of the permit,
the building shall be secured. For purposes of this article, a building shall
be considered secure if all windows are covered if broken, all open access
doorways are covered securely, and all other openings or access to the building
are secured from entry from the outside. In securing said building, the
permittee shall be required to comply with any plan for securing the building
specified by the Building Official. In securing said premises, the owner may
use plywood or other material acceptable to the Building Official and stencil
thereon a notice to read substantially as follows:
   "SECURED BUILDING MATERIALS; REMOVAL, SALE, OR PURCHASE OF THIS MATERIAL
WITHOUT CONSENT OF THE OWNER SHALL CONSTITUTE A VIOLATION OF ARTICLE V OF THE
CODE OF ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF LONGVIEW AND SHALL SUBJECT THE VIOLATOR TO
FINES OR PENALTIES NOT TO EXCEED $500.00."
(5)   During the term of the permit, the structure shall otherwise comply with
all city ordinances or regulations dealing with the control of weeds, vectors,
abandoned vehicles, abandoned junk, or other ordinances as the same shall apply
to the external condition of the premises.
(6)   The owner of the building as part of the permitting process shall agree
in writing that the police department, fire department, building inspection
department, or any other applicable department of the city shall have access to
the premises at all times while on official business. The building owner shall
likewise agree in writing that, save and except for officials of the city as
specified herein, only the building owner or the owner's lawfully authorized
agent shall have access to and enter the building during the time that such
building is governed by a secured building permit.
(7)   No enforcement action is currently pending against the property or its
owner before the city's Building and Standards Commission or under any other
city ordinance; provided, however, that a secured building permit may be issued
upon a finding by the Building and Standards Commission in an enforcement
proceeding, and in response to a request by the owner, that a property the
subject of such proceeding is otherwise qualified for such a permit. In the
event of such a finding, the property owner shall comply with all the terms and
conditions for the issuance of said permit as set out herein, and upon issuance
of such permit, the enforcement action then pending before the Building and
Standards Commission shall be abated, but not dismissed. For so long as a valid
secured building permit is maintained for the property, the pending enforcement
action shall remain in abated status, but at such time as the property is no
longer governed by a valid secured building permit, the abated enforcement
action shall be placed upon an ensuing agenda of the Building and Standards
Commission for review and subsequent action.
Sec. 19-83. Effect of issuance of a secured building permit.
For such time as any building is governed by a valid, unexpired secured
building permit, and all conditions for the original issuance of said permit
shall continue to be satisfied, including proper security of the building and
all utilities remaining disconnected, the building shall be exempted from
complying with all internal nonstructural requirements of the city building
code, electrical code, plumbing code, or other applicable codes of the City of
Longview save and except the city fire code, which shall continue to apply as
to any condition of the building which constitutes an immediate fire hazard. In
addition, while such building continues to be governed by a valid, unexpired
permit for which all conditions continue to be met as specified in this
article, no enforcement action shall be taken by the City of Longview pursuant
to Article III, Chapter 19 of the Code of Ordinances, generally referred to as
the building and standards ordinance.
Sec. 19-84. Maintaining a secured building permit.
The building owner shall be responsible for keeping the building at all times
in full compliance with the terms and conditions of the secured building
permit. If the building shall become noncompliant with the terms and provisions
of this article, as found by the Building Official or as found by the Building
and Standards Commission on appeal from a decision of the Building Official,
then any outstanding secured building permit shall be revoked.
Sec. 19-85. Permit fees.
The fee for the issuance of a secured building permit shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 3242, § 4, 8-28-03)
Sec. 19-86. Permit duration.
A secured building permit issued in accordance with the terms and provisions of
this article, and provided said building governed by said permit continues to
be in all things compliant with this article, shall be valid for a period of
one year from the date of issuance.
Sec. 19-87. Permit renewal.
A secured building permit as authorized herein shall be subject to annual
renewals provided the building owner files proper application on such forms as
shall be established by the chief Building Official for such permit renewal and
satisfies all of the following requirements:
(1)   A showing that all of the original requirements for issuance of the
permit continue to be satisfied, including a showing that the condition of the
building is structurally sound and that the building will meet or exceed the
standards for issuance of a permit set out in Section 19-83 herein.
(2)   Payment of the appropriate permit issuance fee as set out in Section 19-
85 herein.
(3)   An inspection shall be performed by an inspector of the owner's choosing,
provided such inspector shall meet all the requirements of state law as set out
in Section 18C of Article 6573a, Vernon's Texas Statutes, regarding licensed
real estate inspectors. The inspector shall document in writing the results of
the inspection, such documentation to be in such form as the Building Official
shall specify. Any inspector who intentionally or repeatedly falsifies or
provides incomplete reports as required herein may be excluded by the Building
Official as an acceptable inspector for the purposes of this article.
Sec. 19-88. Reoccupation of a secured building.
Before a building governed by a secured building permit can be reoccupied, the
building owner must satisfy the following conditions:
(1)   The building must be returned to full compliance with any and all
applicable city codes, including but not limited to the city building code,
fire code, electrical code, plumbing code, air conditioning code, and all other
similar codes as said codes are constituted at the time that reoccupation of
the building is sought.
(2)   The owner shall pay an appropriate fee for reinspection of the building
by the city building inspection department and the building shall be certified
by said department as compliant with all outstanding building codes.
(3)   The owner shall apply for and receive a new occupancy permit, including
payment of any applicable occupancy fee.
(4)   No utilities shall be turned on in the building until full compliance
with all outstanding city codes and compliance with this article; however,
temporary drops in service may be permitted if necessary for construction work
to bring the building back into compliance with all applicable codes.
Sec. 19-89. Penalties.
(a)   It shall be unlawful to enter a building for which a secured building
permit has been issued, unless such person is the owner or the owner's duly
authorized agent.
(b)   It shall be unlawful to remove securing material from a building for
which a secured building permit has been issued.
(c)   It shall be unlawful to sell securing material, properly or appropriately
stenciled or marked as such, which has been removed from a building for which a
secured building permit has been issued.
(d)   It shall be unlawful to purchase securing material which has been
appropriately stenciled or marked and which has been removed from a building
for which a secured building permit has been issued.
(e)   It shall be unlawful to seek the issuance of a secured building permit
under false pretenses.
(f)   Any person who shall violate the terms and provisions of this article,
including those activities specifically prohibited under this section, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as provided in
Section 1-4 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Longview, Texas.
(Ord. No. 2177, 9-26-91)
Secs. 19-90 - 19-99. Reserved.
Article V.
Reserved
Article VI.
Multi-Family Housing
Sec. 19-112. Code reference.
This Article VI shall be known as the "multi-family minimum housing code."
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-113.   Purpose of article.
The purpose of this article is to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare of the citizens of the city by establishing minimum standards governing
the construction, use, occupancy, management, operation and maintenance of
multi-family dwelling units and apartment houses; by establishing minimum
standards governing utilities, facilities, and other physical components and
conditions essential to make multi-family dwellings, multi-family dwelling
units, and apartment houses safe, sanitary, and fit for human use, occupancy
and habitation; and by fixing penalties for the violation of the provisions of
this article. This article is hereby declared to be remedial and essential to
the public interest, safety, health and welfare and it is intended that this
article be liberally construed to effectuate the purposes as stated above.
Further, it is declared that this article shall not be used as an instrument
for the harassment of any persons. Finally, it is found and declared that the
fees exacted in this article are necessary to cover the cost of exercising the
proper regulation of multi-family dwellings as set forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-114.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Administrator. The term “administrator” shall mean the department(s) or
division(s) of the city designated by the City Manager to administer and/or
enforce the provisions of this article and any person or persons designated by
such a division or department to represent the division or department for said
purpose.
   Bathroom. The term “bathroom” shall mean an enclosed space containing one or
more bathtubs, showers, or both, and which may also include toilets, lavatories
or fixtures serving similar purposes.
   Bedroom. The term “bedroom” shall mean a room used or intended to be used
for sleeping purposes and not as a kitchen, bathroom, living room, closet,
hallway, utility space, entry way, garage, patio or breezeway.
   Building code. The term “building code” shall mean the official building
code of the city in effect at the time of construction; provided, however, that
all existing structures and equipment and any replacement or new installation
must comply with the current official building code of the city to the extent
required by said code.
   City. The term “city” shall mean the City of Longview, Texas, and all areas
within its corporate limits.
   Condominium. The term “condominium” shall mean a complex of individually
owned residential units with undivided co-ownership of common elements.
   Congregate residence. The term “congregate residence” shall mean any
building or portion thereof which contains facilities for living, sleeping, and
sanitation (and may include facilities for cooking and eating) for occupancy by
other than a family, such as a shelter, a convent, a monastery, a dormitory, a
fraternity or sorority house, a jail, or a hospital.
   Construction codes. The term “construction codes” shall mean the building
code, electrical code, energy conservation code, fire code, fuel gas code,
mechanical code, and plumbing code, collectively.
   Dwelling unit. The term “dwelling unit” shall mean any room or group of
rooms providing complete, independent living facilities for the occupants
thereof and occupied, or which is intended or designed to be occupied, as the
home or residence of one individual, group of individuals, family or household,
including permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and
sanitation.
   Electrical code. The term “electrical code” shall mean the official
electrical code of the city in effect at the time of construction; provided,
however, that all existing structures and equipment and any replacement or new
installation must comply with the current official electrical code of the city
to the extent required by said code.
   Energy conservation code. The term “energy conservation code” shall mean the
official energy conservation code of the city in effect at the time of
construction; provided, however, that all existing structures and equipment and
any replacement or new installation must comply with the current official
energy conservation code of the city to the extent required by said code.
   Exterminated and Extermination. The terms “exterminated” and “extermination”
shall mean the control and elimination of insects, rodents, and vermin by
eliminating their places of harborage and by removing, or making inaccessible,
materials that may serve as their food and by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping, or by any other approved means of pest elimination.
   Fire code. The term “fire code” shall mean the official fire code of the
city in effect at the time of construction; provided, however, that all
existing structures and equipment and any replacement or new installation must
comply with the current official fire code of the city to the extent required
by said code.
   Fuel gas code. The term “fuel gas code” shall mean the official fuel gas
code of the city in effect at the time of construction; provided, however, that
all existing structures and equipment and any replacement or new installation
must comply with the current official fuel gas code of the city to the extent
required by said code.
   Garbage.  The term “garbage” shall mean putrescible animal and vegetable
wastes resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of
food.
   Infestation. The term “infestation” shall mean the presence, within or
continuous to a dwelling unit, of insects, rodents, vermin, or other pests.
   Kitchen. The term “kitchen” shall mean the space used for cooking or
preparation of food. 
   Landlord. The term “landlord” shall mean the owner or lessor of a multi-
family dwelling complex and additionally includes a management company or
managing agent (including an on-site manager) of a multi-family dwelling
complex.
   Litter. The term “litter” shall mean garbage, refuse, and rubbish and all
other waste material.
   Mechanical code. The term “mechanical code” shall mean the official
mechanical code of the city in effect at the time of construction; provided,
however, that all existing structures and equipment and any replacement or new
installation must comply with the current official mechanical code of the city
to the extent required by said code.
   Multi-family dwelling complex. The term “multi-family dwelling complex”
shall mean any building or group of buildings that provides three or more
dwelling units owned by the same person on a single platted lot, or if the land
on which the building or buildings is unplatted, then any building or group of
buildings that provides three or more dwelling units owned by the same person
on a contiguous tract of land under a common ownership.
   (1)   The term also includes any accessory structures and facilities
incidental to the use thereof, including but not limited to yards, courts,
parking areas, storage buildings, equipment buildings, mail rooms, laundry
facilities, swimming pools, spas, ponds, cabanas, play rooms and play yards,
recreational and picnic facilities, public assembly rooms, garages, carports,
fences, walls, and all other similar building structures, and facilities on the
premises.
   (2)   The term shall not include hotels, motels, or congregate residences.
The term shall also not include a premises that is inspected by a state or
federal governmental entity for compliance with the provisions of any state or
federal law or regulation regulating the fitness of said premises for human
habitation if at least 50% of the dwelling units of the premises are subject to
said state or federal law or regulation. For purposes of this definition, the
term “state or federal governmental entity” shall mean the government of the
United States; a department, division, agency or subdivision of the United
States government; the State of Texas; or a political subdivision of the State
of Texas. Also for purposes of this definition, the term “state or federal law
or regulation” shall mean a law, rule, regulation or standard of a) the
government of the United States; b) a department, division, agency or
subdivision of the United States government; c) the State of Texas; or d) a
political subdivision of the State of Texas other than the city.
   Multi-family dwelling license. The term “multi-family dwelling license”
shall mean the license issued by the administrator pursuant to this article and
referred to as “license” in this article.
   Occupant. The term “occupant” shall mean any individual over one year of age
living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in or having actual possession of or
access to a dwelling unit; provided, however, that no individual under ten
years of age shall be subject to criminal liability under the provisions of
this article.
   Owner. The term “owner” shall mean any person holding title to a multi-
family dwelling complex according the deed of records in the County Clerk’s
office of the county in which the multi-family dwelling complex is located.
   Person. The term “person” shall mean an individual, partnership, firm,
company, corporation, association, business trust, estate trust, partnership,
or association, two or more persons having a joint or common interest, or any
other legal or commercial entity.
   Plumbing. The term “plumbing” shall mean all of the following supplied
facilities, equipment, and devices: gas pipes, toilets, lavatories, sinks,
laundry tubs, catch basins, wash basins, bathtubs, shower baths, waste sewer
pipes and sewerage system, septic tanks, drains, vents, traps, and any other
fuel-burning or water-using fixtures and appliances, including private fire
hydrants, together with all connections to water, wastewater, sewer, or gas
pipes.
   Plumbing code. The term “plumbing code” shall mean the official plumbing
code of the city in effect at the time of construction; provided, however, that
all existing structures and equipment and any replacement or new installation
must comply with the current official plumbing code of the city to the extent
required by said code.
   Premises. The term “premises” shall mean a lot, plot or parcel of land,
including any structures thereon.
   Property manager. The term “property manager” shall mean a person who has
managing control of real property; in a condominium regime, the term shall
include the council of owners, the homeowner association or the entity having
control over the common, co-owned elements.
   Refuse. The term “refuse” shall mean residential refuse and bulky waste,
construction debris, and stable matter generated at a residential unit, unless
the context otherwise requires.
   Rubbish. The term “rubbish” shall mean nonputrescible solid wastes
consisting of both combustible and non-combustible wastes, such as paper,
wrapping, cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass,
bedding, crockery and similar materials.
   Structure. The term “structure” shall mean that which is built or
constructed, an edifice or building of any kind, or any piece of work
artificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02; Ord. No. 3525, § 16, 6-14-07)
Sec. 19-115.   License required.
(a)   License required. No person shall own, operate, manage, or maintain a
multi-family dwelling complex without a valid multi-family dwelling license
from the city, issued by the administrator. A license that has been revoked,
that has expired, or that has lapsed for any reason is not valid. A suspended
license is not valid during the period of suspension.
(b)   Issuance of license. The administrator shall issue a multi-family
dwelling license to any person making application in the city; provided that
the person complies with the requirements of this article and all fees required
by this article are paid.
(c)   Licenses not transferable. A multi-family dwelling license is not
transferable from one person to another or from one location to another
location, except as otherwise authorized by this article. A multi-family
dwelling license shall authorize the operation of the multi-family dwelling
complex only at the location and for the owner for which granted.
(d)   Required language. Every license issued by the city pursuant to the
provisions of this article shall contain on its face the following language or
language substantially similar thereto:
   "Although the City of Longview attempts to inspect multi-family dwelling
complexes to enforce applicable regulations, a valid City of Longview license
does not guarantee that the inspected multi-family dwelling complex is safe.
The City of Longview does not warrant that any multi-family dwelling complex,
whether inspected or uninspected, is compliant with federal, state or local
regulations."
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-116.   Application.
(a)   Application for a multi-family dwelling license shall be made in writing
on the form provided by the administrator. A separate application is required
for each multi-family dwelling complex for which a license is sought. An
application shall be made for a license for each multi-family dwelling complex
that is constructed and for each time there is a change in ownership of a
multi-family dwelling complex.
(b)   A multi-family dwelling unit application fee is due with each application
for a multi-family dwelling license.
(c)   For purposes of this section, a "change in ownership of a multi-family
dwelling complex" occurs when more than 50% of the equity interest of a multi-
family dwelling complex is owned by a person or persons other than the person
or persons listed on the last multi-family dwelling license application on file
for that multi-family dwelling complex.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-117.   Fees.
(a)   Submission of payment. The requirements for licenses and administrative
fees of this article shall require the payment to be submitted to the
administrator.
(b)   Types of fees imposed. There is hereby imposed a fee ("application fee")
to be charged for each application for a multi-family dwelling license. There
is hereby imposed a fee ("annual license fee") to be charged for the initial
issuance of a multi-family dwelling license and for each annual renewal of a
multi-family dwelling license. There is hereby imposed a fee ("late fee") to be
charged when the annual license fee is not paid before the expiration of the
existing multi-family dwelling license. The annual license fee associated with
the initial issuance of a multi-family dwelling license may be prorated. In the
event any of the inspections authorized in this article requires a reinspection
due to noted violations, then, after the first reinspection, there shall be
charged a fee ("reinspection fee") for each additional reinspection required to
ensure the correction of said violations. The amount of each type of fee
imposed in conjunction with this article shall be as set by resolution of the
City Council.
(c)   Nonrefundable. Any and all fees imposed in conjunction with this article
are not refundable.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-118.   Posting of licenses.
A valid multi-family dwelling license shall at all times be available on the
premises for inspection and shall at all times be displayed in public view in
the business office. In lieu of posting, the license shall be available for
review by tenants upon request.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-119.   Licenses – duration.
(a)   Each license, including without limitation any renewal of a license,
issued under this article shall expire on the April 1 immediately following the
effective date of the license. Each license shall specify on its face the
effective date of the license and the date of expiration.
(b)   Any multi-family dwelling license that is not renewed before its
expiration date may be renewed only upon payment of both the annual license fee
and the required late fee.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-120.   Inspections.
(a)   Inspection authority. The administrator is authorized to conduct such
inspections as the administrator deems necessary to ensure compliance with all
provisions of this article. The administrator shall have right of entry at any
reasonable hour upon the premises. The administrator shall have the authority
to inspect all unoccupied dwelling units upon giving reasonable notice to the
owner, landlord, resident, or property manager. The administrator shall have
the authority to inspect any occupied dwelling unit when, upon reliable
information, the administrator has reason to believe that violations of this
article or of state law exist that involve serious threats to life, safety,
health or property.
(b)   Inspection frequency. Inspections shall be performed as often as
necessary for the enforcement of this article. The administrator shall
determine the frequency of inspections to be made under this article.
(c)   Inspection based on complaint. In addition to any other authority granted
by this article, the administrator shall have the authority to inspect based on
complaints or other credible information indicating the possibility of a
violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-121.   Minimum standards for multi-family dwelling complexes.
(a)   Minimum inspection standards. At a minimum, any multi-family dwelling
complex inspected under the authority of this article must comply with the
standards set forth in the property maintenance code in order to pass
inspection; provided, however, that the administrator may create or adopt a
scoring system under which a multi-family dwelling complex may pass inspection
by receiving a specific minimum score as defined by the administrator. If the
administrator creates or adopts such a scoring system, a multi-family dwelling
complex may pass inspection by receiving the minimum score or above even though
the multi-family dwelling complex does not meet every single criterion set
forth in this section.
(b)   Bedroom window required. Every bedroom in a dwelling unit located below
the fourth story of a multi-family dwelling complex shall have at least one
window or opening facing directly to the outdoors capable of being opened to
the maximum size intended.
(c)   Screening required. Every window in any dwelling unit which is used for
ventilation purposes directly to or from outdoor space shall be equipped with
an insect-proof screen when central air conditioning is not provided to said
unit.
(d)   Boilers. All boilers must meet all state law requirements and have the
inspection certification posted in accordance with Texas Department of
Licensing and Regulation Boiler Division laws and regulations.
(e)   Public safety. All multi-family dwelling complexes shall meet the
following minimum requirements with regard to public safety:
(1)   Security devices. Security devices must be installed and maintained in
accordance with Subchapter D of Chapter 92 of the Texas Property Code,
including keyless deadbolt locks, door viewers, window and door locks, and
sliding glass door security.
(2)   Lighting. Exterior illumination shall be provided at appropriate points
adjacent to all building entrances, including individual dwelling units,
stairwells, and hallways. Lighting shall be sufficient to illuminate area where
hazards may reasonably exist, and shall be operable between a half hour after
sunset and a half hour before sunrise. If control mechanisms for such lighting
are not accessible by each tenant, such illumination shall be activated and
deactivated by a photo cell or seasonally-adjusted timer switch, not operable
by individual tenants of the multi-family dwelling complex. A landlord shall
repair all inoperable exterior lighting fixtures within a reasonable period of
time after being notified that the fixture is not working, in no instance shall
a reasonable period of time be deemed to mean more than seven days.
(f)   General maintenance; grounds and premises. The exterior and grounds of
any multi-family dwelling complex must be maintained in compliance with all
applicable provisions of the Longview City Code. In addition to any
requirements of said code, the exterior and grounds of any multi-family
dwelling complex must comply with the following minimum requirements:
   (1)   Graffiti. All buildings, structures, and grounds must be maintained
free of graffiti.
(2)   Extermination of insects, rodents, or other pests. Every multi-family
dwelling complex must be properly inspected and exterminated for any observed
pests a minimum of twice a year or more frequently as needed to maintain the
premises free from rodents, insects, and vermin. All pest control must be
performed by a properly licensed pest control operator in accordance with
applicable state laws and regulations.
(3)   Garbage and refuse collection. Except when placed curbside for collection
in accordance with all applicable requirements of the city, any outside storage
of garbage must be in a container that is constructed of durable, rodent'proof
material and that has an intact lid. When placed outside for the purposesof
curbside collection, all garbage and refuse must meet all applicable
requirements of the city, including without limitation any applicable
provisions of Chapter 49 of this code. Any commercial container must meet all
applicable city requirements regarding enclosure and/or screening of the
container.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02; Ord. No. 4045, §4, 3-24-16)
Sec. 19-122.   Minimum responsibilities of occupant.
At a minimum, an occupant shall:
(a)   maintain those portions of the interior of a dwelling unit under the
occupant's control free from rubbish, garbage, conditions that would encourage
infestation of insects, rodents, or vermin and other unsanitary conditions;
(b)   maintain the dwelling unit and all plumbing equipment and facilities
provided in a clean, sanitary condition at all times;
(c)   not alter a dwelling unit or its facilities so as to create a
nonconformity with this article.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-123.   Landlord/tenant inspections
(a)   The landlord of a multi-family dwelling complex shall inspect each
dwelling unit within the multi-family dwelling complex.
   (1)   The inspection of a dwelling unit shall be conducted with the unit's
tenant when the occupancy of the unit changes.
   (2)   The landlord shall sign each inspection report, and shall require a
tenant to sign the report for the tenant's dwelling unit. If the tenant
disagrees with any notation made by the landlord on the report, the landlord
shall permit the tenant to make written comments on the report prior to signing
it. The landlord shall provide the tenant with a copy of the report after it is
signed.
   (3)   The administrator shall determine which of the minimum standards
listed in this article shall be covered by the inspection.
   (4)   The failure of a landlord to make inspections required by this
section, to maintain records of the inspections, or to permit inspection of
those records pursuant to subsection (b) may cause the multi-family dwelling
complex to fail inspection.
(b)   A landlord shall maintain reports of the inspections conducted pursuant
to subsection (a) above for all dwelling units within the multi-family dwelling
complex.
   (1)   The reports shall be in a form acceptable to the administrator.
   (2)   A report shall include places for marking whether the dwelling unit
complies with the inspection standards set by the administrator and shall
include the names of all persons occupying the dwelling unit (other than
overnight guests).
(c)   A report shall also include:
   (1)   the names of designated employees or other authorized persons who
shall be assigned to respond to emergency conditions, and the telephone number
where said employees can be contacted during any 24-hour period. Emergency
conditions shall include, without limitation, fire, natural disaster, flood,
collapse or threat of collapse, burst pipes, and violent crime; and
   (2)   a notice for reporting violations to the city as follows: "TO REPORT
UNRESOLVED VIOLATIONS OF THE CITY'S MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING CODE FOR THESE
PREMISES, CONTACT THE CITY OF LONGVIEW ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH DIVISION".
(d)   The landlord shall maintain the inspection reports required by this
section on the premises of the multi-family dwelling complex and shall make
them available to the administrator for inspection at all reasonable times. If
there is no business office on the premises of the multi-family dwelling
complex, the landlord shall maintain reports at the landlord's central business
office, and shall make them available to the administrator for inspection at
the multi-family dwelling complex at all reasonable times.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-124.   Compliance with applicable codes.
(a)   Multi-family dwelling complexes must comply with all construction codes.
(b)   Each multi-family dwelling complex must comply with all applicable
current health, fire, and safety ordinances of the city at all times.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-125.   False statement.
A person commits an offense if the person makes a false statement on any
application, report, or other documentation required to be submitted to the
administrator under the provisions of this article and shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-126. Enforcement authority and responsibility.
(a)   Administrator's authority. The administrator shall have the authority to
enforce this article.
(b)   City Attorney's authority. If any person violates the requirements of
this article or any order of the administrator issued pursuant to the
provisions hereof, the City Attorney or the City Attorney's designee, without
further City Council approval, may take any and all legal actions necessary or
appropriate to enforce said requirements. The City Attorney or the City
Attorney's designee may seek any legal and/or equitable relief necessary or
appropriate to prevent, stop, rectify, punish, or in any way obtain redress for
any such violation. Such action by the City Attorney or the City Attorney's
designee may include, but is not limited to, enforcement in the municipal
court, filing of appropriate civil actions in a court or courts of appropriate
jurisdiction, or defending the city from suit.
(c)   Owner's, landlord's, lessor's, or sublessor's responsibility. The owner,
landlord, lessor, or sublessor shall be responsible for compliance with this
article.
(d)   City's responsibility. Although the city attempts to inspect multi-family
dwelling complexes and to enforce applicable city regulations, a valid multi-
family dwelling license does not guarantee that the inspected multi-family
dwelling complex is safe. The city does not warrant that any multi-family
dwelling complex, whether inspected or uninspected, is compliant with federal,
state or local regulations, including without limitation the regulations set
forth in this article.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-127.   Failure to comply.
(a)   Failure to comply with any provision of this article may result in the
probation, denial, suspension, or revocation of a multi-family dwelling
license.
(b)   Probationary status. Multi-family dwelling complexes that either 1) fail
to pass both an inspection and the associated reinspection or 2) fail to
continually maintain compliance with the provisions of this article will be
placed on a probationary status until such time as it is determined that the
multi-family dwelling complex passes inspection and remains in compliance.
   (1)   While a multi-family dwelling complex is in probationary status, no
dwelling unit of said multi-family dwelling complex may be occupied by
different occupants or newly occupied until the dwelling unit has passed an
inspection by the administrator.
   (2)   Probationary status may be removed after the multi-family dwelling
complex successfully passes two routine inspections and demonstrates continual
compliance with the provisions of this article.
(c)   Denial of license. Upon determination that a multi-family dwelling
complex does not comply with the provisions of this article, the administrator
shall notify the owner or landlord of the multi-family dwelling complex of
existing violations. If the multi-family dwelling complex does not have a
license or is applying for the renewal of an existing license, the
administrator may deny the issuance of the requested license until the
violations are corrected.
(d)    Failure to pay fees. The administrator may suspend or deny a license for
the failure to pay any fee required by the provisions of this article until
such time as the appropriate fee is paid.
(e)   Suspension of license. The administrator may, without warning, advance
notice, or hearing, suspend any license to operate a multi-family dwelling
complex if the operation of the multi-family dwelling complex constitutes an
imminent hazard to public health or safety. Upon suspension of a license, the
owner may not continue to allow new tenants to occupy any unit until the
license is reinstated. Whenever a license is suspended, the holder of the
license shall be afforded an opportunity for a hearing with the administrator
within 20 days of receipt of a request for a hearing.
   (1)   Notice of suspension. Whenever a license is suspended, the holder of
the license, or the responsible person shall be notified in writing that the
license is, upon service of the notice, immediately suspended and that an
opportunity for a hearing will be provided if a written request for a hearing
is filed with the administrator by the holder of the license within ten days
after the service of the notice in accordance with the provisions of this
article. If no written request for hearing is filed within said ten-day period,
the suspension is sustained.
   (2)   Duration. Suspension of a multi-family dwelling license shall continue
until the administrator determines, after an inspection, that the reasons for
suspension no longer exist or until all applicable fees required by this
article have been paid, as applicable.
   (3)   Other remedies reserved. Suspension of a multi-family dwelling license
shall not preclude the administrator from taking any other enforcement action
authorized by law.
(f)   Public utility services. When it is determined by the administrator that
an imminent threat to health or safety exists, the administrator may notify all
public utility companies serving the multi-family dwelling complex of the
health or safety hazard and request that all public utility services affected
by the hazard be discontinued for some or all of those dwelling units at peril.
(g)   Revocation of license. The administrator, after providing opportunity for
a hearing, may revoke a license for repeated or serious violations of any of
the requirements of this article or for interference with the administrator in
the performance of the administrator's duties.
(h)   Dangerous building, substandard structure. A multi-family dwelling
complex that is substantially in noncompliance with the provisions of this
article such that said property constitutes a menace or hazard to the public
health or safety may be deemed a dangerous building or structure within the
meaning of Article III of this chapter. Upon compliance with all of the
relevant provisions of said Article III, the civil municipal court may apply
any of the remedies provided by said Article III to said property and/or may
order that the structure(s) be demolished. In accordance with the provisions of
the aforesaid Article III, and without limiting the remedies available to the
city under said provisions, the city may perform the work ordered by the civil
municipal court and place a lien against the property on which the structure(s)
are located.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-128.   Administrative process.
(a)    Service of notice. A notice as required in this article is properly
served when it is delivered to the owner, landlord, lessor, sublessor, property
manager or the person responsible, or when it is sent by registered or
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the last known address of the
holder of the license. A copy of the notice shall be filed in the records of
the administrator.
(b)   Conduct of hearings. The hearings provided for in this article shall be
conducted by the administrator at a time and place designated by the
administrator. Based upon the recorded evidence of such hearing, the
administrator shall make final findings, and shall sustain, modify or rescind
any notice or order considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing
decision shall be furnished to the holder of the license by the administrator.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Sec. 19-129.   Enforcement.
(a)   Criminal penalty. Any person who violates a provision of this article and
any person who is the owner, landlord, sublessor, property manager, or the
person responsible or who otherwise operates a multi-family dwelling complex
that does not comply with the requirements of this article and any responsible
officer of that owner, landlord, sublessor, property manager, or the person
responsible or those persons shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be subject to a fine as provided in Section 1-4 of this code. Each dwelling
unit that does not meet the provisions of this article, and each violation
therein shall constitute a separate offense. Each day or portion of a day
during which such a violation continues shall also constitute a separate
offense.
(b)   Injunction authorized. The administrator may seek to enjoin violations of
this article.
(c)   Other remedies reserved. The imposition of a criminal penalty or
injunction in accordance with this section shall not preclude the administrator
from taking any other enforcement action authorized by law.
(Ord. No. 3099, § 4, 2-14-02)
Article VII.
Public Swimming Pools and Spas
Sec. 19-130. Adoption of Texas Department of State Health Services Standards
for Public Swimming Pools and Spas.
(a)   Texas Department of State Health Services Standard for Public Swimming
Pools and Spas. The city adopts by reference the provisions of the rules found
in Texas Administrative Code Title 25 and Texas Health and Safety Code
regarding the regulation of public pools and spas in this jurisdiction, as said
rules currently exist and as they may hereafter be amended by the Texas Board
of Health. Said rules are incorporated into this article and for all purposes
made a part hereof.
(b)   The standards of the following statutes, laws, and regulations in their
current form and as they may hereafter be amended, are adopted and incorporated
into this article as if they were set forth at length herein:
   (1)   Texas Health and Safety Code Title 5. §341.064 "Swimming Pools and
Bathhouses;" as amended, and
   (2)   Texas Health and Safety Code Chapter 757 "Pool Yard Enclosures"; as
amended, and
   (3)   Texas Health and Safety Code Title 5. §341.0645 "Pool Safety;" as
amended, and
   (4)   Texas Health and Safety Code Title 5. §341.0695 "Interactive Water
Features and Fountains;" as amended, and
   (5)   Texas Health and Safety Code Title 5. §1.005 "Definitions;" as
amended, and
   (6)   Texas Administrative Code Title 25, Part I, Chapter 265 Subchapter L,
"Standards of Public Pools and Spas;" as amended, and
   (7)   Texas Administrative Code Title 25, Part I, Chapter 265 Subchapter M,
"Public Interactive Water Features and Fountains," as amended
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord No. 3525, § 17,
6-14-07; Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-131. Definitions.
Texas Department of State Health Services definitions applicable. The
definitions found in 25 Texas Administrative Code, Chapter 265, Section 265.181
through 265.207 regarding the regulation of public pools and spas shall apply
to this article except as such terms may be otherwise defined herein.
   Administrator. The term “administrator” shall mean the department(s) or
division(s) of the city designated by the City Manager to administer and/or
enforce the provisions of this article and any person or persons designated by
such a division or department to represent the division or department for said
purposes.
   Modify or modified or modification. The term “modify” or “modified” or
“modification” shall mean the replacement of or change to a pool structure,
circulation system and/or appurtenances such that the design, configuration,
and/or operating characteristics are different than the original design,
configuration, and/or operating characteristics, but does not include normal
maintenance and repair or the replacement of equipment which had been
previously approved, provided that the type, size, and/or operating
characteristics of the equipment are not substantially different than the
original equipment.
   Pool permit. The term “pool permit” shall mean the permit required by the
provisions of this article. The term does not include any other permit required
for the construction of a pool or spa, and the issuance of a permit under the
provisions of this article shall not be construed to exempt a pool or spa from
any other applicable legal requirements, including without limitation the
requirement to obtain a building permit or any other permit required by law.
City of Longview Registered Pool Operator. A person who provides the below
credentials and applies with Administrator for registration to provide
Certified Pool Operator service in the City of Longview:
   (a)   Confirmation of current year attendance of the City Longview code
update and orientation taining; and
   (b)   Provides certification showing successful completion of one of the
following nationally recognized courses in aquatic facility operation, safety
and management:
      1. National Recreation and Park Association, "Aquatic Facility Operator"
(A.F.O.);
      2. Pool and Tub Association, "Certified Pool-Spa Operator" (C.P.O); or
      3. Other training at approved by the Administrator.
Enclosure means a fence, wall, or combination of fences, walls, gates, windows,
or doors that completely surround an aquatic facility.
Extensively remodeled means the replacement of or modification to an aquatic
facility structure or its enclosure, its circulation system or its
appurtenances, so that the design, configuration or operation is different from
the original design, configuration or operation, including the installation of
new deck detail or tile work that is different from the original design. This
term does not include the normal maintenance and repair or the replacement of
equipment which has been previously approved if the size, type or operation of
the equipment is not substantially different from the original equipment.
Person in charge means the owner of the aquatic facility, or the person
identifying himself or herself as the owner's designated representative and
person in charge on the permit application. This person may also be the
certified pool operator.
Public aquatic facility means any aquatic facility which is intended to be used
by the general public for swimming, bathing or other related purposes and is
operated by an owner, lessee, operator, licensee or concessionaire, regardless
of whether a fee is charged for use.
Secured means that an enclosure during normal operation is maintained so that
all gates and entrances are maintained closed with functioning self-latching
and self-closing mechanisms, and that the enclosure is not allowed to maintain
gaps large enough to allow the passage of a four-inch sphere or provide any
feature that may be climbed by a child to gain access to the aquatic facility.
The enclosure during times when the aquatic facility is closed to the public
must maintain the above conditions, but the gates or entrances to the enclosure
must also be locked so that no person may enter the gates or entrances without
the authorization of the certified pool operator and/or person in charge.
Service animal means an animal such as a guide dog, signal dog, or other animal
individually trained to provide assistance to an individual with a disability.
State aquatic facility regulations means the regulations adopted by the state
of Texas to regulate public pools and spas, and includes the following, as
amended from time to time:
   (a)   Texas Health and Safety Code Title 5, §341.064 "Swimming Pools and
Bathhouses," as amended, and
   (b)   Texas Health and Safety Code Chapter 757 "Pool Yard Enclosures"; as
amended, and
   (c)   Texas Administrative Code Title 25, Part I, Chapter 265 Subchapter L,
"Standards of Public Pools and Spas;" as amended, and
   (d)   Tex. Administrative Code Title 25, Part I, Chapter 265 Subchapter M,
"Public Interactive Water Features Fountains," as amended.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 3525, §
18, 6-14-07; Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-132. Pool permits.
(a)   Permit required. No person shall operate a pool or spa without a valid
pool permit from the city, issued by the administrator. A pool permit that has
been revoked, that has expired, or that has lapsed for any reason is not valid.
A suspended pool permit is not valid during the period of suspension.
(b)   Issuance of permit. The administrator shall issue a pool permit to any
person making application in the city; provided that the person complies with
the requirements of this article and the annual pool permit fee is paid.
(c)   Permits not transferable. A pool permit is not transferable from one
person to another or from one location to another location, except as otherwise
permitted by this article. A pool permit shall permit the operation of the pool
only at the location and for the owner for which granted.
(d)   Permit Application. An application for such permit as required in this
section shall be made annually in writing to the Administrator or the
Administrator's designee upon forms prescribed and furnished by the city.
(e)   Permit Requirements. The permit applicant must designate a registered
certified pool operator and person in charge for each facility for which a
permit is sought. The person designated as the registered certified pool
operator must be currently on the city of Longview Pool Operator Registry and
may be employed by the facility where the aquatic facility or facilities are
located or contracted to provide service by the property. The registered pool
operator must be able to physically respond to the facility address within one
hour of being notified by the Administrator for an immediate public health
concern.
(f)   Public Aquatic Facilities . Public aquatic facilities which are owned and
operated by the city, public schools, or as determined by the Director of
Development Services, must obtain a pool permit but shall be exempt from paying
the application fee and the pool permit fee.
(g)   Existing Facilities . Facilities constructed before the adoption of this
article must comply with all provisions of this article and all future
amendments to this article, unless the Director of Development Services grants
a variance in writing, or unless otherwise exempted under Texas Health and
Safety Code Sec. 757.005.
(h)   Variance . If a variance to this article is issued by the Director of
Development Services, the permit applicant must annually reapply for the
variance in writing. The granting of a variance does not guarantee that the
director will grant future variances.
(i)   Required language . Every permit issued by the city pursuant to the
provisions of this article shall contain on its face the following language or
language substantially similar thereto:
      “Although the City of Longview attempts to inspect pools and spas and to
enforce applicable Texas Department of State Health Services regulations, a
valid City of Longview pool permit does not guarantee that the inspected pool
or spa is safe. The City of Longview does not warrant that any pool or spa,
whether inspected or uninspected, is compliant with federal, state or local
regulations.”
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 3525, §
19, 6-14-07; Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-133.   Pool permit application.
(a)   Application in Writing. Application for a pool permit shall be made in
writing on the form provided by the administrator. A separate application is
required for each pool for which a permit is sought. An application shall be
made for a permit for each pool that is constructed or modified or at any time
there is a change of ownership.
(b)   Application Fee. A pool application fee, as established by separate
resolution, is due for each pool that is constructed or modified. A separate
fee, as established by separate resolution, is required for each pool for which
a pool permit is sought.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-134.   Fees.
(a)   Submission of payment. The requirements for permits and administrative
fees of this article shall require the payment to be submitted to the
administrator.
(b)   Types of fees imposed; amount; exemptions. The types and amounts of fees
charged in conjunction with the administration of this article shall be as set
by resolution of the City Council; provided, however, that no fees shall be
charged for pools owned and operated by the city or by a public school
district.
(c)   Nonrefundable. Any and all fees imposed in conjunction with this article
are not refundable and will not be prorated..
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4172, § 3,
8-9-18; Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-135.   Posting of pool permits.
(a)   Displaying permit. A valid pool permit shall at all times be available on
the premises for inspection and shall at all times be displayed in public view.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-136.   Permits – duration.
(a)   Pool Permit Application. Pool permits shall expire on April 1 of each
year unless the annual pool permit fee is paid, or unless the pool permit is
suspended for cause before expiration date.
(b)   Pool Permit Lapse. Pool permits that lapse solely due to non-payment of
the annual pool permit fee will be reinstated upon payment of the annual pool
permit fee and a late fee.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-137.   Grounds for permit denial.
   (a)   Permit Denied. The Administrator may deny the issuance of a permit for
a public aquatic facility:
      (1)   If the applicant for the permit of the aquatic facility being
permitted has been convicted of one or more violations of this article or state
aquatic facility regulations; and the violations have not been corrected;
      (2)   If any of the permit conditions of this article are not met.
   (b)   Notification of Denial. An applicant whose permit is denied will be
notified by the administrator, in writing, within ten days of the date of the
denial. The Administrator shall set out the grounds for the denial.
   (c)   Notification of Delivery. The notice will be personally delivered to
the applicant or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
address listed on the application.
   (d)   Appeal of Denial. An applicant whose permit is denied may request an
appeals hearing within ten days after service of the notice of denial. Such
request shall be in writing, shall specify the reasons why the permit should
not be denied, and shall be filed with the Director of Development Services.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 3525, §20,
6-14-07; Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-138.   Grounds for permit suspension.
   (a)   Grounds for Suspension. After notice and hearing, the Administrator
may suspend for up to 30 days or may revoke a public aquatic facility permit
if:
      (1)   The permit holder or person in charge of the aquatic facility is
convicted of a violation of this article or state aquatic facility regulations
during the term of the permit and the violation has not been corrected; or
      (2)   The permit holder or person in charge of the aquatic facility fails
to comply with any of the permit conditions set forth in this article; or
      (3)   The permit holder or person in charge of the aquatic facility fails
to comply with an inspection report orders; or
      (4)   The permit holder or person in charge of the aquatic facility
disobeys a closure order issued by the Administrator pursuant to this article;
or
      (5)   The permit holder or person in charge made a materially false
statement on the permit application or there is any false statement or
misrepresentation as to a material fact in any plans and specifications
submitted pursuant to other provision.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 3525, §
21, 6-14-07; Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-139.   Review of plans.
(a)   Plans and Specifications. Whenever a pool or a spa is constructed or
modified, properly prepared plans and specifications for such construction or
modification, along with the application fee, shall be submitted to the
administrator for review and approval before contruction or modification is
stared.
(b)   Professional Confirmation of Plans. Whenever plans and specifications are
required to be submitted to the administrator, a registered professional
engineer or architect must confirm, by letter and seal, that the swimming pool
was designed, constructed and/or modified in compliance with the applicable
provisions of the Texas Department of State Health Services Standards for
Public Swimming Pools and Spas and the 2021 International Swimming Pool and Spa
Code, as amended.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-140.   Inspections.
   (a)   Inspection authority. The Administrator is authorized to conduct such
inspections as the Administrator deems necessary to ensure compliance with all
provisions of this ordinance. The Administrator shall have right of entry at
any reasonable hour upon the premises where a pool or spa is located. The
Administrator shall have the authority to collect water samples from the pool
or spa. The Administrator's Authority to inspect pools and spas includes,
without limitation, the right to access any and all parts of the pool or spa
and the right to view and copy any or all of the records relating to the
construction or maintenance of the pool or spa.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-141.   Plan Review and Construction Inspections.
(a)   Construction plans to be submitted. Prior to beginning the construction
of a new aquatic facility or the extensive remodeling of an existing aquatic
facility, the owner shall submit plans and specifications for such construction
or remodeling to the Administrator for review.
(b)   Plan Contents. The plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed
layout and arrangement of mechanical, plumbing, fencing, electrical,
construction materials of work areas, the type and model of proposed fixed
equipment and facilities and all associated buildings or structures.
(c)   Engineer to examine plans . A licensed professional engineer shall
examine the final aquatic facility design/blueprints for all new and
extensively remodeled aquatic facilities (including structural, mechanical,
plumbing or electrical renovations) and certify by original signature and
engineer's seal compliance with state aquatic facility regulations and this
article.
(d)   Review of plans . No work shall begin until the building official has
received the engineer's certificate of pre-construction, conducted a plans
review and has communicated with the building inspections department that a
building permit may be issued. Work shall commence and conclude within the time
allowed by such permits. Deviations from approved plans shall not be permitted
without approval in writing from the Administrator. If no work has begun within
180 days from the date the consumer health official has given written notice
that work may begin, or if work has begun and is halted more than 60 days, the
Administrator may withdraw approval.
(e)   Inspection . The aquatic facility construction shall pass a pre-gunite
inspection, pre-plaster inspection and pre-operational inspection by the city
building official prior to issuance of a permit. The completion of these
inspections by a city building official does not substitute or replace
inspections required by other departments within the city.
(f)   Engineer Inspection . A licensed professional engineer shall inspect the
completed new or renovated aquatic facility construction and certify by
original signature and engineer's seal that the aquatic facility is installed
and constructed in accordance with state aquatic facility regulations and this
article.
(g)   Compliance with other codes . It is the responsibility of the person in
charge to ensure that the building permit applicant and licensed professional
engineer comply with all zoning, building, fire, and health ordinances of the
City of Longview.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 3525, §
22, 6-14-07; Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-142.   Annual pre-operation inspections.
(a)   Pre-operation inspection . Each public aquatic facility shall pass a pre-
operation inspection by the Administrator prior to use by the public each
permit year. A re-inspection fee shall be required for all further pre-
operation inspections, as set forth by separate resolution.
(b)   Annual Inspection . Each public aquatic facility shall also annually
submit certification by a licensed, registered electrician that the electrical
equipment for the aquatic facility meets all local, state, and federal
electrical codes on a form promulgated by the city.
(c)   Representative Training . A representative from each public aquatic
facility shall attend one code update/orientation pool meeting per year that is
offered quarterly by the Administrator. This representative should be the
person in charge, the certified pool operator, and/or designee of the person in
charge or certified pool operator. It shall be the responsibility of the person
in charge and the certified pool operator to be knowledgeable about all
information conveyed through the pre-season pool safety meeting.
(d)   Additional inspections . Additional inspections shall be performed as
often as necessary for the enforcement of this article. The Administrator shall
determine the frequency of inspections to be made under this article.
(e)   Minimum inspection standards . At a minimum, any pool or spa inspected
under the authority of this article must comply with the following standards in
order to pass inspection:
   (1)   All pumps, filters, heaters, disinfectant and chemical feeders,
drains, ladders, handrails, lighting, ropes, and appurtenant equipment used in
the operation of all pools and spas shall be maintained in a good state of
repair and in compliance with provisions of Texas Department of State Health
Services Standards for Public Swimming Pools and Spas and the 2021
International Swimming Pool and Spa Code, as amended.
   (2)   Every pool shall contain a disinfectant concentration of a minimum
free available chlorine of 1.0 parts per million (ppm) and a maximum free
available chlorine of 8.0 ppm.
   As an alternative to the use of chlorine as a disinfectant, bromine may be
used as a disinfectant in a pool. Every pool using bromine as a disinfectant
shall contain a disinfectant concentration of minimum total bromine of 3.0 ppm
and a maximum total bromine of 10.0 ppm. Use of any disinfectant other than
chlorine or bromine must be approved by the Texas Department of State Health
Services.
   (3)   Every spa shall contain a disinfectant concentration of a minimum free
available chlorine of 2.0 ppm and a maximum free available chlorine of 8.0 ppm.
As an alternative to the use of chlorine as a disinfectant, bromine may be used
as a disinfectant in a pool. Every pool using bromine as a disinfectant shall
contain a disinfectant concentration of minimum total bromine of 4.0 ppm and a
maximum total bromine of 10.0 ppm. Use of any disinfectant other than chlorine
or bromine must be approved by the Texas Department of State Health Services.
   (4)   Every pool and spa shall have water with a pH of not less than 7.0 and
not more than 7.8.
   (5)   A pH test kit, accurate to the nearest 0.2 pH units, shall be provided
at each pool and spa. A test kit for measuring the concentration of the
disinfectant, accurate within 0.2 mg/L, shall be provided at each pool and at
each spa. The owner, operator, and person in charge of each pool or spa are
responsible for providing the required test kits. The test kit for measuring
disinfectant concentration must use the DPD (dimethyl-p-phenylenediamine)
method. The Administrator may, at the Administrator's discretion, accept a test
kit that uses another testing method if the method is approved by the Texas
Department of State Health Services.
   (6)   When the pool or spa is in operation, test must be performed once a
day for disinfectant residual and pH concentration as listed in this section,
exept when more frequent testing is required under the provisions of Texas
Department of State Health Services Standards for Public Swimming Pools and
Spas. The results of these tests must be recorded and maintained on-site for at
least three years.
   (7)   The maximum temperature of the water in any pool or spa shall be 104
degrees Fahrenheit. Each spa shall be required to have an unbreakable,
thermometer able to accurately measure the temperature in degrees Fahrenheit.
   (8)   If cyanuric acid is used to stabilize the free available chlorine, or
if one of the chlorinated isocyanurate compounds is used as the disinfecting
cheminal, the concentration of the cyanuric acid in the water shall not exceed
100 ppm. If 100 ppm of cyanuric acid is reached, the minimum free chlorine must
be raised to 2.0 ppm until the cyanuric acid level is returned below 100ppm.
Cyanuric acid should return below 100ppm as soon as possible.
   (9)   The total alkalinity of the pool or spa water should be at least 60
ppm to 180 ppm or greater.
   (10)   The presence of coliform bacteria in any sample shall be deemed to
constitute unacceptable water quality.
   (11)   Every pool and spa shall have water clarity sufficient for the main
drain and/or bottom to be clearly visible. Failure to meet this requirement
shall be sufficient cause for immediate closure of the pool or spa.
   (12)   Every pool and spa shall be free of scum and foreign floating matter,
sediment, dirt, slime, algae and all other foreign material.
   (13)   The circulation system of a pool or spa must be in operation and
properly maintained at all times in order to maintain the required turn-over
rate necessary to maintain water clarity according to this section.
   (14)   All systems for pools or spas shall be designed and maintained to
protect against entrapment, entanglement, or evisceration hazard and not
constitute a hazard to users. All suction test required under the provisions of
Texas Department of State Health Services Standards for Public Swimming Pools
and Spas must be performed as described and all reports submitted to the
Administrator according the dates prescribed.
   (15)   Every pool and spa is required to have at least one continuous
disinfection system that is capable of precisely introducing a sufficient
quantity of approved disinfectant necessary to maintain the level stated in (e)
(2) of this section. Hand broadcasting of chemicals directly on to the pool or
spa surface shall not be allowed while the pool or spa is in use.
   (16)   Water introduced into the pool or spa shall be supplied through an
approved air gap. Any other method of introducing water into the pool or spa
system must comply with the plumbing code of the city.
   (17)   Areas surrounding a pool or spa, including bathhouses, dressing
rooms, toilets, shower stalls and lounging areas shall be kept clean and in a
state of good repair at all times.
   (18)   All chemicals used in a pool or spa water treatment shall be stored
in their original containers and kept in a cool, dry and well-ventilated place,
out of the reach of children, and should be kept in a locked room.
   (19)   All signs required by this article must be posted in accordance with
the applicable requirements.
   (20)   All pools and spas must comply with the requirements of this article
regarding depth markings.
   (21)   All pools must comply with all applicable requirements of this
article regarding safety equipment.
   (22)   A suction outlet system shall be designed to protect against suction
entrapment, evisceration, and hair entanglement, or entrapment hazards in
accordance with "ANSI/APSP-16", American National Standard for Suction
Entrapment Avoidance in Swimming Pools, Wading pools, Spas, Hot Tubs, and Catch
basins. Skimmers are not considered suction outlets. If a pool or spa was
constructed prior to 1/1/21, skimmers having equalizers, shall comply with all
submerged outlet requirements in ANSI/APSP/ICC. "American National Standards
Institute/Association of Pool and Spa Professionals/International Code Council"
   (23)   All pool and/or spa enclosures must be maintained in good repair and
comply with the applicable state or local construction requirements.
   (24)   All gates to pool or spa enclosures must be self-closing and self-
latching and meet any applicable construction requirements imposed under state
or local law, including without limitation any requirement imposed by Texas
Department of State Health Services Standards for Public Swimming Pools and
Spas and/or by city ordinance.
   (25)   When not in use for an extended period of time such as off-season,
the pool or spa water quality need not be maintained if the gate to the
enclosure is properly secured and locked; except that water clarity must be
maintained and algae must not be allowed to grow.
   (26)   At no time shall a pool or spa be allowed to give off objectionable
odor, become a breeding site for insects, or create any nuisance or safety
hazard.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-143.   Safety equipment.
(a)   General safety equipment. The following safety equipment shall be readily
accessible, kept in good repair, and ready condition at all pools, excluding
spas, during all times they are open for use:
   (1)   a strong, light, non-telescoping reaching pole not less than 12 feet
long, including a body hook or shepherd's crook type of pole, having blunted
ends, constructed of fiberglass, or other electrically non-conducting material;
   (2)   a 1/4 inch to 3/8 inch diameter throw rope of a length of 2/3 of the
maximum width of the pool to which has been firmly attached a United States
Coast Guard approved ring buoy with outside diameter of 15 to 24; and
   (3)   Pools requiring lifeguards shall have one or more backboards equipped
with a head immobilizer and sufficient straps to immobilize a person to the
backboard, an OSHA compliant 24-unit first aid kit that includes disease
transmission barriers and cleaning kits meeting OSHA standards and at least one
portable AED and one BVM kept in a secure location that can be easily accessed
by lifeguards or other trained personnel.
(b)   Telephone . Each pool and each spa shall have a functioning telephone or
other electronic means capable of immediately summoning emergency service
readily accessible within 200 feet unimpeded distance (an unlocked door or gate
shall not be considered an impediment) of the pool or spa water. If electronic
means other than a telephone are provided, clear instructions regarding their
use shall be provided in close proximity to the electronic means of
communication and easily legible while using said means of communication.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-144.   Warning Signs.
(a)   No Lifeguard Notice . All pools where no lifeguard service is provided
shall post in plain view at each entrance to the pool a warning sign which
states, "WARNING - NO LIFEGUARD ON DUTY," with clear, legible letters at least
four inches in height. In addition, the sign shall also state in letters at
least two inches high, PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 14 MUST NOT BE IN THE POOL
WITHOUT ADULT SUPERVISION.
(b)   Under Age Notice . All spas shall post in plain view at each entrance to
the spa a warning sign which states, PERSON UNDER THE AGE OF 14 MUST NOT BE IN
THE SPA WITHOUT ADULT SUPERVISION with clear, legible letters at least two
inches in height.
(c)   Emergency Notice . A sign shall be placed in distinct view of swimmers at
all pools and spas giving the emergency 911 telephone number or other
appropriate emergency number or action and shall state the location of the
nearest telephone.
(d)   No Diving Sign . The warning words "NO DIVING" and the international
symbol for no diving shall be clearly marked on the pool deck with an
acceptable contrasting color and letters at least four inches in height.
   (1)   The warning shall be placed at least every 25 feet or fraction
thereof, around the pool where the water depth is five feet or less.
   (2)   At least two warnings including the "NO DIVING" and international
symbol for no diving, one at the extreme ends of the minimum depth and one at
the extreme ends of the maximum depth at five feet, shall be provided on each
side of the pool or on each of the longer dimensional sides of the pool.
   (3)   The warning signs shall be slip resistant and located within 18 inches
of the water edge and positioned to be read while standing on the deck facing
the water.
(e)   Hot Water Notice . A sign must be posted at all spas containing the
following warning: "Do not use if water temperature is greater than 104 degrees
Fahrenheit" in letters at least one inch high.
(f)   Signs Visible . All signs shall have a distinct border and, be clearly
visible to the pool or spa user, and be securely posted.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-145.   Depth markings.
(a)   Depth Marking. Depth markings on each pool and on each spa shall meet the
applicable requirements of the Texas Department of State Health Services
Standards for Public Swimming Pools and Spas.
(b)   Depth Marking Provisions . Depth markings must be permanently applied
using contrasting color to the background on which they are applied. Lettering
shall spell out "Feet" or "Inches" or abbreviate "Ft." or "In."
((Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 3525, §
23, 6-14-07; Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-146.   Regulations in pool/spa area.
   A person commits an offense if the person does any one of the following:
   (a)   allows an animal under his/her control to enter or remain within the
area or enclosure of a pool or spa, except that service animals may be allowed
in the pool or spa area or enclosure and not in the pool water; or
   (b)   Alters or removes safety equipment from a pool or spa except in an
emergency or as part of the regular maintenance of said equipment; or
   c)   Carries a glass container within a pool or spa area or enclosure; or
   (d)   Has skin abrasions, open sores, skin disease, eye disease, nasal or
ear discharge, diarrhea, or a communicable disease and bathes in a public or
semi-public aquatic facility; or
   (e)   Alters or damages any part of a public aquatic facility enclosure or
allows the aquatic facility enclosure to remain unsecured while the enclosure
is under repair: or
   (f)   Alters or damages drain and/or suction outlet covers or grates; or
   (g)   Interferes with or obstructs the Administrator while the Administrator
is in the process of enforcing this article; or
   (h)   Is the certified pool operator or the person in charge and violates
any provision of this article.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-147.   Duties of certified pool operator and/or the person in charge.
   It shall be the duty of the certified pool operator or person in charge to:
   (a)   Keep facility manager or person in charge informed at all times the
current safety and readiness status of the facility pool or pools the certified
pool operator or person in charge is responsible for.
   (b)   To keep the Administrator immediately informed of any unsafe or events
causing any health concerns; and
   (c)   Physically respond within one hour of being notified by the
Administrator to the site of the aquatic facility; and
   (d)   Check at least once per day that the aquatic facility remains in
compliance with this article and with state aquatic facility regulations; and
   (e)   Check and record water chemistry at least with frequency required by
state regulations at each aquatic facility permitted to ensure compliance with
state aquatic facility regulations, including:
      1.   Disinfectant levels; and
      2.   pH levels; and
      3.   Cyanuric acid levels (if applicable); and
      4.   Water balance; and
      5.   and any other test as needed.
   (f)   Ensure that an appropriate method is used to check water chemistry as
specified in state aquatic facility regulations; and
   (g)   Retain records of daily water chemistry checks for at least three
years on site; and
   (h)   Ensure that the steps detailed herein are completed if any conditions
exist that require temporary closure of public aquatic facilities as specified
in this article; and
   (i)   Register certification as a certified pool operator with
Administrator. Current certification and registration is required to provide
pool operator service to any public pool in the City of Longview. A copy of
registration must be maintained on site at each facility that a Pool Operator
services. A pool operator must notify the Administrator within 30 calendar days
of leaving the service to a facility. Each time a pool operator adds or removes
service to a facility, the Administrator must be notified.
   The facility property person in charge is required to notify the
Administrator of any pool operator status changes within 30 calendar days of
any change.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-148. Interference with posting.
A person commits an offense if the person removes, defaces, or makes illegible
a sign or posting or any part of a sign or posting required by any provision of
this article and shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to a fine as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-149. False statement.
A person commits an offense if the person makes a false statement on any
application, report, or other documentation required to be submitted to the
administrator under the provisions of this article and shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-150. Enforcement authority and responsability. 
   (a)   Administrator's authority. The administrator shall have the authority
to enforce this article.
   (b)   City Attorney's authority. If any person violates the requirements of
this article or any order of the city issued pursuant to the provisions hereof,
the City Attorney or the City Attorney's designee, without further City Council
approval, may take any and all legal actions necessary or appropriate to
enforce said requirements. The City Attorney or the City Attorney's designee
may seek any legal and/or equitable relief necessary or appropriate to prevent,
stop, rectify, punish, or in any way obtain redress for any such violation.
Such action by the City Attorney or the City Attorney's designee may include,
but is not limited to, enforcement in the municipal court, filing of
appropriate civil actions in a court or courts of appropriate jurisdiction, or
defending the city from suit.
   (c)   Owner's responsability. The owner and the person in charge of every
pool or spa shall be responsible for compliance with all parts of this article
relating to pool or spa maintenance, pool or spa operation, and the safety of
anyone using the pool or spa.
   (d)   City's responsibility. Although the city attempts to inspect pools and
spas and to enforce applicable Texas Department of State Health Services
regulations, a valid city pool permit does not guarantee that the inspected
pool or spa is safe. The city does not warrant that any pool or spa, whether
inspected or uninspected, is compliant with federal, state or local
regulations, including without limitation the regulations set forth in this
article.
(Ord. No. 3057, §2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, §11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 3525, §23,
6-14-07; Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-151. Closure of pool or spa.
   (a)   Pool closure. Failure to comply with any provision of this article may
result in the denial or suspension of a pool permit, the immediate closure of
the pool or spa and/or the initiation of legal action.
   (b)   Pool Conditions. Upon determination that a pool or a spa does not
comply with the provisions of this article, the Administrator shall notify the
owner or person in charge of the pool or spa of the existing violations. If the
pool or spa does not have a permit or is applying for the renewal of an
existing permit, the administrator may deny the issuance of the requested
permit until the violations are corrected. If the Administrator determines that
the condition of the pool or spa is hazardous to the health or safety of its
users or of the general public, the Administrator shall immediately suspend the
pool permit of the pool or spa until such time as the condition of the pool or
spa no longer poses a hazard to the health or safety of its users or of the
general public. If the pool or spa currently possesses a valid pool permit and
the Administrator determines that the condition of the pool or spa is not
immediately hazardous to the health or safety of its users or of the general
public, the Administrator may specify a reasonable time period in which the
pool or spa must be brought into compliance with the provisions of this
article. If the pool or spa is not brought into compliance within said time
period, the Administrator may suspend the pool permit until such time as the
pool or spa is brought into compliance. If a fee required under the provisions
of this article has not been paid, the Administrator may suspend the pool
permit for the pool or spa or deny a permit for said pool or spa until such
time as the appropriate fee is paid.
   (c)   Suspension and Revocation. Any pool permit suspended for a period of
more than 30 days shall be automatically considered revoked. Any pool or spa
for which the pool permit has been revoked must reapply for a new permit under
this article in order to operate.
   (d)   No Pool Permit. Any pool or spa that does not possess a valid permit
must be immediately closed. Any pool or spa with a valid pool permit which has
not been suspended or revoked and for which the renewal of the pool permit has
been denied shall be closed immediately upon the expiration of the existing
pool permit.
   (e)   Sign Posting. Signs shall be posted at all entrances to any pool or
spa that has been closed under the provisions of this section. Said signs shall
be clearly visible to a reasonably observant person and shall state, "Closed by
The Longview Environmental Health Division." signs posted by the admisnistrator
stating "Closed by the Longview Environmental Health Divison" shall not be
altered or removed unless authorized by the administrator.
   (f)   Re-inspection. A re-inspection of the pool or spa will be conducted
during the regular working hours of the Administrator at the request of the
owner or the person in charge of the pool or spa. If compliance has been
achieved, the administrator shall notify the owner or person in charge of the
pool or spa of said compliance. Upon such a determination of compliance, the
pool permit shall be reinstated if it was suspended (without being revoked) and
the pool or spa shall be allowed to open. If there was not a valid pool permit
due to any reason other than suspension, then a new pool permit must be
obtained in order to open the pool or spa.
   (g)   No Usage without Permit. When a pool or spa does not have a valid pool
permit in effect, the owner and the person in charge of such pool or spa shall
not knowingly allow the pool or spa to be used for swimming, diving or bathing
purposes and shall immediately take every reasonable step to prevent the use of
such pool or spa for such purposes. By way of example and without limiting such
duty, the owner or person in charge of the pool or spa shall (1) immediately
post notices reasonably likely to come to the attention of potential users of
the pool or spa, advising of the closure, and (2) shall immediately lock all
gates and doorways in any fence or other enclosure surrounding such pool or
spa.
   (h)   Prima Facie. Use of a pool or spa by an individual for swimming,
diving or bathing purposes when the pool or spa does not have in effect a valid
pool permit shall be deemed prima facie evidence that the owner and the person
in charge of said pool or spa have knowingly allowed the pool or spa to be used
for such purposes.
   (i)   Lock Pool Gates. The Administrator may, based on the nature and extent
of the violation(s) present, affix a lock or similar closing mechanism on the
gate or gates leading to a pool or spa that does not have in effect a valid
pool permit.
   (j)   Nonfeasance. A person commits an offense if the person uses a pool or
spa that does not have in effect a valid pool permit and shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as provided in this article.
(Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-152. Temporary closure of public aquatic facilities.
    If the Administrator, certified pool operator, and/or person in charge
determines that any condition exists in the aquatic facility that is hazardous
to the health or safety of the swimmers or of the general public the facility
shall be closed.
   (a)   The following conditions require immediate closure of public aquatic
facilities:
      (1)   The emergency phone on-site is absent, missing, or not functioning;
or
      (2)   The water chemistry of the aquatic facility is outside of required
legal limits or is hazardous to public health and safety; or
      (3)   Life safety equipment or signage is missing or damaged; or
      (4)   The required safety vacuum release system (SVRS) is not working; or
      (5)   Drain or suction outlet covers become damaged or detached; or
      (6)   The bottom of the aquatic facility cannot be clearly seen at any
part of the water body; or
      (7)   The aquatic facility equipment ceases to circulate; or
      (8)   The facility enclosure is damaged; or
      (9)   The gates or doors to the aquatic facility fail to self-close and
self-latch; or
      (10)   An entanglement or entrapment hazard exists, regardless of the age
of the aquatic facility; or
      (11)   Any other event or condition exists that is hazardous to the
health or safety of swimmers or of the general public.
   (b)   If the facility shall be closed the certified pool operator and/or the
person in charge shall immediately take all reasonable steps to prevent the use
of the aquatic facility during closure. This includes:
      (1)   All entrances into the aquatic facility enclosure shall be secured
and locked. The certified pool operator and/or person in charge shall be
responsible for keeping the entrances secured and locked at all times while the
facility is closed.
      (2)   Signs shall be posted at all entrances to the aquatic facility.
Said sign shall be clearly visible to a reasonably observant person and shall
state in minimum two-inch letters, "POOL CLOSED." The certified pool operator
and/or person in charge shall be responsible for keeping the closure sign
visible at all times.
      (3)   A closure sign posted by the Administrator shall not be removed by
any person other than the Administrator. Removal of the closure sign posted by
the Administrator without authorization may result in citation, suspension,
and/or revocation of the aquatic facility permit.
   (c)   If the Administrator determines that the condition of the aquatic
facility is hazardous to the health or safety of the swimmers or the general
public and orders closure, a re-inspection of the facility must be conducted by
the Administrator prior to allowing the aquatic facility to be used or
reopened.. If compliance has been achieved, the administrator shall notify the
certified pool operator and/or the person in charge that the aquatic facility
may be opened or reopened for use by swimmers and the general public.
   (d)   If a re-inspection of the facility by the Administrator is required, a
re-inspection fee shall be charged for each re-inspection of each aquatic
facility.
   (e)   It shall be a violation for the certified pool operator and/or the
person in charge to allow use of the aquatic facility after the Administrator
has ordered the facility closed and before the Administrator has informed the
certified pool operator and/or person in charge that the facility may be
reopened.
   (f)   Use of the aquatic facility by an individual for swimming, diving or
bathing purposes after the Administrator has ordered such aquatic facility to
be closed shall be deemed prima facie evidence that the owner of the aquatic
facility has knowingly allowed the aquatic facility to be used for such
purposes.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-153. Filling of pools and spas.
Dangerous Structure . A pool or spa substantially in noncompliance with the
provisions of this article or of state law such that said pool or spa
constitutes a menace or hazard to the public health or safety shall be deemed a
dangerous building or structure within the meaning of Article III of Chapter 19
of this Code. Upon compliance with all of the relevant provisions of said
Article III, the civil municipal court may apply any of the remedies provided
by said Article III to said pool or spa and/or may order that the pool or spa
be demolished and/or filled with inert material. In accordance with the
provisions of the aforesaid Article III, and without limiting the remedies
available to the city under said provisions, the city may perform the work
ordered by the civil municipal court and place a lien against the property on
which the pool or spa is located.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-154. Compliance with local and state regulations regarding backflow
prevention and stormwater control.
   (a)   Water Introduction. Any method of introducing water into the aquatic
facility system must comply with The City of Longview plumbing code and best
management practices recommended by the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality, regardless of the age or pre-existence of the facility. If any
conflict between provisions exists, the more strict provision shall apply
unless a variance from this provision is granted.
   (b)   Backwash and Drainage. All backwash and drainage water shall be
disposed of into the city sanitary water system through lines and equipment
installed in accordance with all codes and ordinances adopted by the City of
Longview and all other relevant jurisdictions unless said water:
      (1)   Does not possess any potentially hazardous characteristics that
would pose a threat to private or public health and safety or to property; and
      (2)   Is to be used to recycle as non-potable gray water and for
conservation purposes only.
   (c)   No Drainage onto other property. No backwash or drainage water may be
pumped or drained directly to adjacent public or private property.
(Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-155. Criminal penalties.
The City Council hereby finds and declares that this article is an ordinance
governing public health and sanitation. Any person who violates a provision of
this article and any person who is the permit holder for or otherwise operates
a pool or spa that does not comply with the requirements of this article and
any responsible officer of that permit holder or those persons shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as provided in Section
1-4 of this code and Section 54.001 of the Texas Local Government Code. Each
day or part of a day that a pool or spa owner or person in charge of a pool or
spa permits a violation of this article to exist shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. No. 4420, § 2, 3-09-23)
Sec. 19-156. Failure to comply.
   (a)   Failure to comply. Failure to comply with any section of this article
may result in the immediate closure of the aquatic facility, the initiation of
legal action, permit suspension, and/or permit revocation.
   (b)   Notifications. Upon determination that the aquatic facility does not
comply with the provisions of this article, the administrator shall notify the
certified pool operator and/or the person in charge of the aquatic facility of
the existing violations.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
Sec. 19-157. Other remedies reserved.
The imposition of a criminal penalty, injunction, or other remedy or penalty
shall not preclude the administrator or the City Attorney from taking any other
enforcement action authorized by law, including without limitation the
revocation or suspension of a pool permit and/or the immediate closure of a
pool or spa in accordance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 3057, § 2, 8-23-01; Ord. No. 3085, § 11, 1-10-02; Ord. No. 4420, § 2,
3-09-23)
 
Article VIII.
Reserved
Article IX.
Reserved
Article X.
Reserved
Article XI.
Property Maintenance Code
Sec. 19-241. Property maintenance code adopted.
(a)   Adoption. The 2012 International Property Maintenance Code, published by
the International Code Council, Inc., is hereby adopted as the official
property maintenance code of the City of Longview, Texas. All references to the
"property maintance code" in the Longview City Code shall be construed to refer
to said 2012 International Property Maintenance Code unless the context clearly
requires otherwise. All references to the "code" in this article shall be
contrued to refer to said 2012 International Property Maintenance Code unless
the context clearly requires otherwise. Appendix A to the 2012 International
Property Maintenance Code is hereby adopted in its entirety; provided, however,
that said appendix shall be subject to such amendmentsas shall be provided in
Section 19-242 of the Longview City Code. All other appendices to said property
maintenance code are hereby excluded in their entirety. The provisions of this
Article XI, including without limitation any modifications or amendments to the
property maintenance code, shall control over the provisions of said property
maintenance code.
Sec. 19-242. Modifications.
The International Property Maintenance Code adopted in Section 19-241 is hereby
amended in the following respects (references are made by number to specific
sections of the code:
(1)   Section 101.1 of the code is hereby amended to read as follows:
101.1 Title.   This code shall be known as the International Property
Maintenance Code of Longview, Texas, and shall be cited as such. It is referred
to herein as this "code."
(2)   Section 103.5 of the code is hereby amended to read as follows:
103.5 Fees.   The fees for activities and services performed by the department
in carrying out its responsiblities uner this code shall be as set by
resolution of the Longview City Council.
(3)   Section 106.3 of the code is hereby amended in its entirety to read as
follows:
106.3 Prosecution of violation. If the notice of violation is not complied with
promptly, the building official is authorized to request the legal counsel of
the jurisdiction to institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or
termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building or structure in violation
of the provision of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant
thereto.
(4)   Section 106.4 of the code is hereby amended in its entirety to read as
follows:
 106.4 Violation penalties. Any person, firm, corporation or agent who violates
a provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements of
this code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each such person, firm,
corporation, or agent shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each and
every day or portion thereof during which any violation of any of the
provisions of this code is committed or continued, and upon conviction of any
such violation, such person shall be punished within the limits of and as
provided in Chapter 1, Section 1-4 of the Longview City Code, including without
limitation a fine of up to $2,000.00. Unless otherwise specifically set forth
herein, or in state law as adopted, allegation and evidence of culpable mental
state are not required for the proof of an offense defined by this code.
(5)   Sections 108.2, 108.2.1, 108.3, 108.4, 108.4.1, 108.5, 108.6, and 108.7
of the code are hereby repealed and replaced with the following:
108.3 Remediation. A structure or equipment may be ordered vacated, secured,
repaired, removed, or demolished only as provided in Article III to Chapter 19
of the Longview City Code and only after compliance with all requirements of
notice and all other applicable procedural and substantive requirements of said
article.
(6)   Section 112.4 of the code is hereby amended to read as follows:
112.4 Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each such person, firm, corporation, or agent shall be deemed
guilty of a separate offense for each and every day or portion thereof during
which any such violation is committed or continued, and upon conviction of any
such violation, such person shall be punished within the limits of and as
provided in Chapter 1, Section 1-4 of the Longview City Code, including without
limitation a fine of up to $2,000.00. Unless otherwise specifically set forth
herein, or in state law as adopted, allegation and evidence of culpable mental
state are not required for the proof of an offense defined by this section.
(7)   Section 110 (which consists of Sections 110.1, 110.2, 110.3, and 110.4)
of the code is hereby repealed in its entirety and replaced with the following:
SECTION 110
DEMOLITION
110.1 General. A structure or equipment may be ordered vacated, secured,
repaired, removed, or demolished only as provided in Article III to Chapter 19
of the Longview City Code and only after compliance with all requirements of
notice and all other applicable procedural and substantive requirements of said
article.
(8)   Section 111 (which consists of Sections 111.1, 111.2, 111.2.1, 111.2.2,
111.2.3, 111.2.4, 111.2.5, 111.3, 111.4, 111.4.1, 111.5, 111.6, 111.6.1,
111.6.2, 111.7, and 111.8) of the code is hereby repealed in its entirety and
replaced with the following:
SECTION 111
MEANS OF APPEAL
111.1 General. Appeals of the decision of the code official shall be in
accordance with the official building code of the City of Longview, Texas, as
said building code may be amended by the City from time to time; provided,
however, that a structure or equipment may be ordered vacated, secured,
repaired, removed, or demolished only as provided in Article III to Chapter 19
of the Longview City Code and only after compliance with all requirements of
notice and all other applicable procedural and substantive requirements of said
article.
(9)   Section 202 of the code is hereby amended by amending the definition of
the term "code official" to read as follows:
CODE OFFICIAL. Any reference in this code to the "code official" shall be
construed as a reference to the building official designated in Section 19-17
of the Longview City Code.
(10)   Section 302.4 of the code is hereby amended to read as follows:
302.4 Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained in
accordance with all applicable requirements of Article IV to Chapter 49 on the
Longview City Code.
(11)   Section 304.14 of the code is hereby amended to read as follows:
304.14. Insect screens. Every door, window and other outside opening required
for ventialtion of habitable rooms, food preparation areas, food service areas
or any areas where products to be included or utilized in food for human
consumption are processed, manufactured, packaged or stored shall be supplied
with approved tightly fitting screens of minimum 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per
25 mm), and every screen door used for insect control shall have a self-closing
device in good working condition.
Exception: Screens shall not be required where other approved means, such as
air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
(12)   Section 305.3 of the code is hereby amended to read as follows:
305.3 Interior surfaces. All interior surfaces, including windows and doors,
shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition.
(13)   Section 602.3 of the code is hereby amended to read as follows:
602.3 Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents, leases
or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either expressed
or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply heat during
the period from November 1 to March 31 to maintain a minimum temperature of 68
degrees F (20 degrees C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
Exceptions:
   1.   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in Appendix D of the official plumbing code of the City of
Longview.
   2.   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30 degrees F (-
1 degree C) a minimum temperature of 65 degrees F (18 degrees C) shall be
maintained.
(14)   Section 602.4 of the code is hereby amended to read as follows:
602.4 Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be supplied
with heat during the period from November 1 to March 31 to maintain a minimum
temperature of 65 degrees F (18 degrees C) during the period the spaces are
occupied.
Exceptions:
   1.   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or special
temperature conditions.
   2.   Areas in which persons are primarlily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
(Ord. No. 4045, §, 3-24-16)
Chapter 20
Business Regulations
  **Chapter 20, Article 1 will not be effective until June 25, 2016**
Article I. Credit Access Businesses
Sec.
20-1.    Title and Purpose.
Sec.
20-2.    Definitions.
Sec.
20-3.    Violations; Penalty.
Sec.
20-4.    Defenses.
Sec.
20-5.    Registration Required.
Sec.
20-6.    Registration Application.
Sec.
20-7.    Issuance and Display of Certificate of Registration; Presentment upon
Request.
Sec.
20-8.    Expiration and Renewal of Certificate of Registration.
Sec.
20-9.    Non-transferability.
Sec.
20-10.    Appeal.
Sec.
20-11.    Maintenance of Records.
Sec.
20-12.    Restriction on Extension of Consumer Credit.
Sec.
20-13.    Requirement of Consumer Understanding of Agreement.
Sec.
20-14.    Referral to Consumer Credit Counseling.
**Chapter 20, Article 1 will not be effective until June 25, 2016**
Article I. Credit Access Businesses
Section 20-1. Title and Purpose
(a)   This article may be known and called as "Credit Access Businesses."
(b)   The purpose of this article is to protect the welfare of the citizens of
the City of Longview by monitoring credit access businesses in an effort to
reduce abusive and predatory lending practices. To this end, this article
establishes a registration program for credit access businesses, imposes
restrictions on extensions of consumer credit made by credit access businesses,
and imposes record keeping requirements on credit access businesses.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-2. Definitions.
As used in this chapter:
   Certificate of Registration means a certificate of registration issued by
the Director, or the Director's designee, or the Chief of Police, or the Chief
of Police's designee, under this article, to the owner or operator of a credit
access business.
   Chief of Police means the Chief of Police of the City of Longview Police
Department, or the Chief of Police's Designee.
   Consumer means an individual who is solicited to purchase or who purchases
the services of a credit access business.
   Consumer's Language of Preference is the language the consumer understands
best.
   Credit Access Business has the meaning given that term in Section 393.601 of
the Texas Finance Code.
   Deferred Presentment Transaction has the meaning given that term in Section
393.601 of the Texas Finance Code, which definition incorporates Section
341.001(6) of the Texas Finance Code.
   Director means the Director of Development Services of the City of Longview,
or the Director's Designee.
   Extension of Consumer Credit has the meaning given that term in Section
393.001 of the Texas Finance Code.
   Motor Vehicle Title Loan has the meaning given that term in Section 393.601
of the Texas Finance Code.
   Person means any individual, corporation, organization, partnership,
association, financial institution, or any other legal entity.
   Registrant means a person issued a certificate of registration for a credit
access business under this chapter and includes all owners and operators of the
credit access business identified in the registration application filed under
this chapter.
   State License means a license to operate a credit access business issued by
the Texas Consumer Creidt Commissioner under Chapter 393, Subchapter G of the
Texas Finance Code.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-3. Violations; Penalty.
(a)   A person who violates a provision of this chapter, or who fails to
perform an act required of the person by this chapter, commits an offense. A
person commits a separate offense for each and every violation relating to an
extension of consumer credit, and for each day during which a violation is
committed, permitted, or continued.
(b)   An offense under this chapter is punishable by a fine of not more than
$500.
(c)   A culpable mental state is not required for the commission of an offense
under this article and need not be proved.
(d)   The penalties provided for in Subsection (b) are in addition to any other
remedies that the city may have under city ordinances and state law.
(e)   A registrant who violates any provision of this chapter is subject to
denial of issuance, renewal, or revocation of a certificate of registration.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-4. Defenses.
It is a defense to prosecution under this article that at the time of the
alleged offense the person was not required to be licensed by the state as a
credit access business under Chapter 393, Subchapter G, of the Texas Finance
Code.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-5. Registration Required.
A person commits an offense if the person owns, operates, or conducts business
as a credit access business without a valid certificate of registration. A
certificate of registration is annually required for each physically separate
credit access business.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-6. Registration Application.
(a)    To obtain a certificate of registration for a credit access business, a
person must submit an application on a form provided for that purpose to the
Director or the Chief of Police. The application must contain the following:
   (1)   The name, street address, mailing address, facsimile number, and
telephone number of the applicant;
   (2)   The business or trade name, street address, mailing address, facsimile
number, and telephone number of the credit access business;
   (3)   The names, street addresses, mailing addresses, and telephone numbers
of all owners of the credit access business, and the nature and extent of each
person's interest in the credit access business;
   (4)   A copy of a current, valid state license held by the credit access
business pursuant to Chapter 393, Subchapter G of the Texas Finance Code;
   (5)   A copy of a current, valid certificate of occupancy showing that the
credit access business is in compliance with the Longview City Code; and,
   (6)   A non-refundable application fee, the amount set within the City of
Longview Fee Resolution.
(b)   An applicant or registrant shall notify the director within 30 days after
any material change in the information contained in the application for a
certificate of registration, including, but not limited to, any change of
address and any change in the status of the state license held by the applicant
or registrant.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-7. Issuance and Display of Certificate of Registration; Presentment
upon Request.
(a)   The Director or the Director's designee, or the Chief of Police or the
Chief of Police's designee, shall issue to the applicant a certificate of
registration upon receiving a completed and correct application under Section
20-6.
(b)   A certificate of registration issued under this section must be
conspicuously displayed to the public in the credit access business. The
certificate of registration must be presented upon request to the Director or
any peace officer for examination.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-8. Expiration and Renewal of Certificate of Registration.
(a)   A certificate of registration expires on the earliest of:
   (1)   One year after the date of issuance; or
   (2)   The date of revocation, suspension, surrender, expiration without
renewal, or other termination of the registrant's state license.
(b)   A certificate of registration may be renewed by making application in
accordance with Section 20-6. A registrant shall apply for renewal at least
thirty (30) days before the expiration of the registration.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-9. Non-transferability.
A certificate of registration for a credit access business is not transferable.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-10. Appeal.
(a)   Upon denial of issuance or renewal of a credit access business
certificate of registration by the City of Longview, the credit access business
owner or operator may appeal the decision of denial to the City mananger or the
City Manager's designee.
   (1)   The notice of appeal must be in writing, fully briefing the
appellan'ts position, and filed with the City Manager's Office within ten (10)
days of the receipt of the notice of denial.
   (2)   The notice of denial is deemed received and in receipt of the owner or
operator of the credit access business on the third day after mailing by the
City by certified mail.
   (3)   The City Manager may determine from the notice of appeal and
submissions from the Director or the Chief of Police, or their designee,
whether the denial should be upheld or overturned and the certificate of
registration issued, within ten (10) days.
(b)   Upon revocation of a credit access business certificate of registration
by the City of Longview, the credit access business owner or operator may
appeal the decision of revocation to the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee.
   (1)   The notice of appeal must be in writing and filed with City Manager's
Office within ten (10) days of the receipt of the notice of revocation.
   (2)   The notice of revocation is deemed received and in receipt of the
owner or operator of the credit access business on the third (3) day after
mailing by the City by certified mail.
   (3)   The City Manager may determine from the notice of appeal and
submissions from the director of the Chief of Police, or their designee,
whether the denial should be upheld, or overturned and the certificate of
registration re-instated, within ten (10) days.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-11. Maintenance of Records.
(a)   A credit access business shall maintain a complete set of records of all
applications and extensions of consumer credit arranged or obtained by the
credit access business, which must include the following information:
   (1)   The name and address of the consumer;
   (2)   The principal amount of cash actually advanced;
   (3)   The length of the extension of consumer credit, including the number
of installments and renewals;
   (4)   The fees charged by the credit access business to arrange or obtain an
extension of consumer credit; and
   (5)   The documentation used to establish a consumer's income.
(b)   A credit access business shall maintain a copy of each written agreement
between the credit access business and a consumer evidencing an extension of a
consumer credit (including, but not limited to, any refinancing or renewal
granted to the consumer).
(c)   A credit access business shall maintain copies of all quarterly reports
filed with the Texas Consumer Credit Commissioner under Section 393.627 of the
Texas Finance Code, as amended.
(d)   The records required to be maintained by a credit access business under
this section must be retained for at least three years and made available for
inspection by the city upon request during the usual and customary business
hours of the credit access business.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-12. Restriction on Extension of Consumer Credit.
(a)   The cash advanced under an extension of consumer credit that a credit
access business obtains for a consumer or assists a consumer in obtaining in
the form of a deferred presentment transaction may not exceed 20 percent of the
consumer's gross monthly income.
(b)   The cash advanced under an extension of consumer credit that a credit
access business obtains for a consumer or assists a consumer in obtaining in
the form of a motor vehicle title loan may not exceed the lesser of:
   (1)   Three (3) percent of the consumer's gross annual income; or
   (2)   Seventy (70) percent of the retail value of the motor vehicle.
(c)   A credit access business shall use the following documentation to
determine a consumer's income:
   (1)   A payroll document identifying the consumer's wages for the consumer's
most recent pay period;
   (2)   A paycheck or paystub issued to the consumer for the consumer's most
recent pay period;
   (3)   An account statement from a financial institution issued to the
consumer;
   (4)   A recent report from a nationally recognized credit and data reporting
company that identifies the consumer's income;
   (5)   An Internal Revenue Service Form W-2 for the preceding year issued to
the consumer;
   (6)   The consumer's income tax return for the preceding tax year; or,
   (7)   A signed letter from the consumer's employer which details the
consumer's earnings for the previous six months and the consumer's expected
earning for the next six months.
(d)   An extension of consumer credit that a credit access business obtains for
a consumer or assists a consumer in obtaining and that provides for repayment
in installments may not be payable in more than four (4) installments. Proceeds
from each installment payment must be used to repay at least a portion of the
principal amount of the extension of consumer credit. An extension of consumer
credit that provides for repayment in installments may not be refinanced or
renewed.
(e)   An extension of consumer credit that a credit access business obtains for
a consumer or assists a consumer in obtaining and that provides for a single
lump sum repayment may not be refinanced or renewed more than three (3) times.
Proceeds from each refinancing or renewal payment must be used to repay at
least a portion of the principal amount of the original extension of consumer
credit.
(f)   For purposes of this section, an extension of consumer credit that is
made to a consumer within seven (7) days after a previous extension of consumer
credit has been paid by the consumer will constitute a refinancing or renewal.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-13. Requirement of Consumer Understanding of Agreement.
(a)   Every agreement between the credit access business and a consumer
evidencing an extension of consumer credit (including, but not limited to, any
refinancing or renewal granted to the consumer), must be written in the
consumer's language of preference. Every credit access business location must
maintain on its premises, to be available for use by consumers, agreements in
English and Spanish languages.
(b)   For every consumer who cannot read, every agreement between the credit
access business and a consumer evidencing an extension of consumer credit
(including, but not limited to, any refinancing or renewal granted to the
consumer) must be read to the consumer in its entirety in the consumer's
language of preference, prior to the consumer's signature.
(c)   For every consumer who cannot read, every disclosure and notice required
by law must be read to the consumers in its entirety in the consumer's language
of preference, prior to the consumer's signature.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
Section 20-14. Referral to Consumer Credit Counseling.
A credit access business shall provide a form, approved by the Director or
Chief of Police, or their designee, to each consumer seeking assistance in
obtaining an extension of consumer credit which references non-profit agencies
that provide financial education and training programs and agencies with cash
assistance programs. The form will also contain information regarding
extensions of consumer credit, and must include the information required by
Section 20-11 and Section 20-12 of this ordinance specific to the loan
agreement with the consumer. The form must be provided to the consumer in the
consumer's language of preference.
(Ord. No. 4043, §3, 2-25-16)
**Chapter 20, Article 1 will not be effective until June 25, 2016**
Chapter 21 Reserved
Chapter 22
Cemeteries
Sec.
22-1.   Authorized and designated.
Sec.
22-2.   Extensions.
Sec.
22-3.   Establishment of new cemeteries.
Sec.
22-4.   Burial outside authorized cemetery.
Sec.
22-5.   Disinterment of certain bodies buried on private ground.
Sec.
22-6.   Depth of grave; exception.
Sec.
22-7.   Permit required for removal of body from city.
Sec.
22-8.   Order for immediate interment.
Sec.
22-9.   Burial permits required.
Sec.
22-10.   Carrying to or receiving at cemetery body unaccompanied by permit.
Sec.
22-11.   Permitting interment without permit - Prohibited.
Sec.
22-12.   Permit for burial of person dying outside city.
Sec.
22-13.   Permit for removal of body required.
Sec.
22-14.   Rules and regulations for certain portion of Grace Hill Cemetery and
White Cemetery as covenants running with land.
Sec.
22-15.   Purchase price for cemetery lots.
Sec.
22-16.   Permanent ground receptacles required.
Sec.
22-17.   Fees for opening and closing graves.
Sec.
22-18.   Penalty.
Sec. 22-1. Authorized and designated.
The following named cemeteries, now established within the limits of the city,
are hereby recognized and authorized as legal and proper places for the
interment of persons who may die in the city, or may be brought to the city for
burial:
(1)   Grace Hill Cemetery;
(2)   Greenwood Cemetery;
(3)   White Cemetery (located at Fort Drive and Brentwood Street).
(Code 1943, Art. 9-7; Ord. No. 1289, Art. 1, 11-13-79)
Sec. 22-2. Extensions.
The limits of the cemeteries designated in Section 22-1, or any other that may
be hereafter authorized or established by ordinance, shall never be extended,
unless authority has been granted by the City Council.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-8)
Sec. 22-3. Establishment of new cemeteries.
It shall be unlawful for any person to lay out or establish a public or private
burying ground within the limits of the city.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-9)
Sec. 22-4. Burial outside authorized cemetery.
It shall be unlawful for any person to bury the body of any deceased person
anywhere within the limits of the city other than a cemetery duly authorized
and recognized as a public burying ground, under the terms of this chapter,
except by special permission granted by the health officer and confirmed by the
City Council, and if the body of any deceased person is buried anywhere within
the city limits, except in a legally authorized cemetery or burying ground,
without such permission, then the health officer may require the person so
burying such body to disinter such body and bury the same in a duly authorized
cemetery or burying ground.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-10)
Sec. 22-5. Disinterment of certain bodies buried on private ground.
If the body of any deceased person be found buried on any lot or ground in the
city, the owner or agent of which lot or ground cannot be found, it shall be
lawful and is hereby made the duty of the health officer to cause such body to
be disinterred and buried in a cemetery established by this chapter; provided
however, that the provisions of this article shall not apply to the remains of
deceased persons which have been interred prior to April 15, 1943.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-11)
Sec. 22-6. Depth of grave; exception.
No body of any deceased person shall be buried in any cemetery in the city at a
less depth than five feet below the surface of the ground; provided, that the
provisions of this section shall not apply to cases where burial vaults or
tombs have been or may be erected for the reception of the bodies of deceased
persons.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-12)
Sec. 22-7. Permit required for removal of body from city.
It shall be unlawful to convey, remove or assist in conveying or removing the
body of any deceased person outside the limits of the city without obtaining
from the health officer a permit properly issued and signed, giving permission
so to do; provided, that the provisions of this section shall have no
application where bodies in course of transportation pass through the city on
the way from one point to another.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-13)
Sec. 22-8. Order for immediate interment.
Whenever the interment of the body of any deceased person has, in the opinion
of the health officer of the city been unnecessarily delayed or whenever the
interment of the body of a deceased person, for sanitary reasons, or for the
protection of the public health, should take place forthwith, it shall be the
duty of the health officer of the city to issue an order directing such
interment immediately. Such order shall be directed to the person in charge.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-14)
Sec. 22-9. Burial permits required.
No person shall bury or place in a tomb or remove from the city or otherwise
dispose of the body of a deceased human being who shall die in the city, or who
shall be brought into the city for burial, without first reporting the death of
such person to the health officer and obtaining from him a permit for the
burial of the body of such person.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-15)
Sec. 22-10. Carrying to or receiving at cemetery body unaccompanied by permit.
It shall be unlawful for any person to carry the body of any deceased person to
any cemetery or burying ground authorized by this chapter, or for any sexton to
receive the body of any deceased person, unless same be accompanied by a burial
permit properly signed and executed by the city health officer.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-16)
Sec. 22-11. Permitting interment without permit - Prohibited.
It shall be unlawful for any person in charge of any cemetery or burial ground
to permit any body of a deceased person to be interred in any cemetery or
burial ground unless the person or persons seeking to bury such body shall
deliver to the person in charge a certificate or permit for burial issued by
the health officer under the terms of this chapter.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-17)
Sec. 22-12. Permit for burial of person dying outside city.
Before a permit shall be issued for the burial of the body of a person who died
outside of the limits of the city and has been brought within the city limits,
a certificate of a physician given at the place of death shall be required, or,
if no such certificate accompanies the body, the health officer shall view the
body and take such action as may be necessary to procure a proper certificate
for the records of his office.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-18)
Sec. 22-13. Permit for removal of body required.
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any dead body or the remains of
any such body from any grave or tomb of any cemetery in this city without a
permit from the health officer.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-19)
Sec. 22-14. Rules and regulations for certain portion of Grace Hill Cemetery
and White Cemetery as covenants running with land.
The following rules and regulations are hereby adopted and shall prevail for
Grace Hill Cemetery and White Cemetery and shall be covenants running with the
land:
1.   Purchase of Lots.  Persons desiring to purchase lots in Grace Hill
Cemetery or White Cemetery are referred to the City Secretary’s office.
2.   Ownership and Title of Lots. Upon full payment of the purchase price of a
lot, the city will issue a deed to the property to the purchaser.
3.   Sale of Lots (Spaces). Lot owners may sell any or all of the existing
lots. This will have to be done with the approval of the city.
4.   Subdivision of Lots. No part of the portion of the cemeteries herein shall
be subdivided into smaller tracts than shown lots on plats; except for
cremation interments. Lots for cremation will be halved. In addition, the city
may subdivide blocks into single space graves of a size indicated on said map.
5.   Use of Lots. All interments shall require written permission from the lot
owner by completion of the authorization and indemnification form provided by
an approved funeral home under agreement with the City of Longview for
interment within said municipal cemetery. The interment of two bodies in one
grave will not be allowed. No interments of any body other than that of a human
being will be permitted.
6.   Removals. Removal of bodies from graves will only be made in accordance
with the rules and requirements of the statutes of the State of Texas and the
rules and regulations of state and city officials. Lot owners or their heirs
desiring graves to be opened shall secure permission from the City of Longview.
7.   Monuments. All interments shall be promptly marked with a permanent
marker. The cemetery staff shall approve the placement of all monuments.
Monuments and markers shall be designed in harmony with the lot and its
environment. The city reserves the right to approve design, construction, and
quality of all memorials, monuments, and markers. Only one monument shall be
erected on a lot. All upright markers, monuments, and memorials are to be
constructed in such a manner as to permit the mowing, trimming and other care
of the lawn and foliage in the cemetery.
8.   Action by city. The city, at the expense of the lot owner and as a charge
against the lot, may repair or remove any monument, marker, or memorial that is
improper, offensive, dangerous or dilapidated.
9.   Enclosures. In order to be buried in any city owned cemetery, any casket
bearing the body of a deceased person shall be enclosed in a permanent vault or
box constructed of steel, fiberglass, or concrete with the exception of a
waiver for children or indigents.
10.    Markings of Graves. All marking of grave locations will be the
responsibility of the family or funeral home representatives.
11.   Graves. City staff must approve the location of all interments. The mound
of a grave shall not exceed the height of 22 inches around the surrounding land
when thoroughly settled and shall slope down evenly at the sides and end so as
to merge in the surrounding ground.
12.   Trees and Shrubs. No trees, plants, shrubs or flowers may be planted in
the cemetery except by the city. Cut flowers may be placed on graves. Cut
flowers or artificial arrangements will be removed by the cemetery staff as
needed.
13.   Markings of Lot Corners. No person shall in any manner attempt to define
by fence, railing, corner post, coping, hedge, embankment or ditch any lot or
burial space. All curbing must be approved in advance by the cemetery staff.
(Ord. No. 7, § 1, 6-8-43; Ord. No. 1232, Art. 1, 2-22-79; Ord. No. 1289, Art.
II, 11-13-79; Ord. No. 2849, § 2, 9-23-99; Ord. No. 3525, § 24, 6-14-07)
Sec. 22-15. Purchase price for cemetery lots.
The purchase price for lots located in city cemeteries shall be as set by
resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 1058, § 1, 3-8-76; Ord. No. 1289, Art. III, 11-13-79; Ord. No. 3053,
§ 14, 8-9-01)
Sec. 22-16. Permanent ground receptacles required.
In order to be buried in any city cemetery, any casket bearing the body of a
deceased person, with the exception of deceased children or indigents, shall be
enclosed in a permanent vault or box constructed of steel, fiberglass or
concrete.
(Ord. No. 1326, Art. I, 6-16-80)
Sec. 22-17. Fees for opening and closing graves.
The fees for the opening and closing of graves in any city cemetery shall be as
set by resolution of the City Council.
(Amended by Ord. No. 1903, 6-25-87; Ord. No. 2849, § 3, 9-23-99; Ord. No. 3053,
§ 15, 8-9-01)
 Sec. 22-18. Penalty.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall be punished in
accordance with the terms of Section 1-4 of the Code.
(Ord. No. 2849, § 4, 9-23-99)
Chapters 23 - 24
Reserved
Chapter 25
City-Owned Facilities
Article I.Maude Cobb Convention and Activity Complex
Sec.
25-1.   Complex defined.
Sec.
25-2.   Charges and security.
Sec.
25-3.   Conventions.
Sec.
25-4.   Insurance.
Sec.
25-5-25-12.    Reserved.
Article II. Concealed Handguns and Other Firearms on City Premises
Sec.
25-21.    Definitions.
Sec.
25-22.    Signage.
Sec.
25-23.   Public meeting.
Sec.
25-24.   City property.
Sec.
25-25.   Trespass.
Sec.
25-26.    Penalties.
Article III. Excluding Individuals from City Property
Sec.
25-30  .    Purpose of this Chapter
Sec.
25-31 .    Definitions.
Sec.
25-32.      Excluding individuals from city property; hearing provided.
Article IV. Hours of Use of Certain City Property.
Sec.
25-40.   Hours of Use for Longview Public Library Property.
Article I.
Maude Cobb Convention and Activity Complex
Sec. 25-1. Complex defined.
As used in this Article I, Maude Cobb Convention and Activity Complex shall
mean one or more of the following city-owned facilities:
(1)   the Maude Cobb Convention and Activity Center;
(2)   the city fairgrounds;
(3)   the fairgrounds exhibit building;
(4)   the rodeo arena;
(5)   the agricultural pavilions:
(6)   any facilities ancillary to or in support of those listed in numbers (1)
- (5) above.
(Ord. No 3775, § 2, 8-25-11)
Sec. 25-2. Charges and security.
(1)   All rentals, fees, and other charges related to the use of the Maude Cobb
Convention and Activity Complex or related to any services provided at the
Maude Cobb Convention and Activity Complex shall be established by resolution
of the City Council.
(2)   All deposits and other security related to the use of the Maude Cobb
Convention and Activity Complex or related to any services provided at the
Maude Cobb Convention and Activity Complex shall be established by resolution
of the City Council. The City Council may also establish by resolution any
required deposit or security procedures.
(3)   The City Council may, by resolution, delegate such authority to the City
Manager or other city employee regarding the charges, deposits, and security
authorized by this section as the City Council shall deem appropriate.
Sec. 25-3. Conventions.
The president of the visitors and convention bureau, or other person designated
by the City Manager, shall be authorized to negotiate agreements with
convention groups which may waive the requirements of this article; provided,
however, that no such agreement shall be binding upon the city until the same
has been approved in writing by the City Manager, or the City Manager's
designee, who shall be some person other than the party negotiating said
agreement.
(Ord. No. 3775, § 2 , 8-25-11)
Sec. 25-4. Insurance.
The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall establish specifications
for the types and amounts of general liability insurance to be required of
persons or entities renting facilities at the Maude Cobb Convention and
Activity Complex, and these specifications shall be made available to the
public upon request. Parties desiring to rent facilities at the Maude Cobb
Convention and Activity Complex shall provide proof of general liability
insurance in accordance with the specifications and procedures established by
the City Manager and/or the City Manager's designee."
(Ord. No. 3053, § 17, 8-9-01, Ord. No. 3775, § 2 , 8-25-11)
Sec. 25-5-25-12. Reserved.
 
(Ord. No. 3775, § 2, 8-25-11)
Article II.
Handguns and Other Firearms on City Premises.
Sec. 25-21. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
City premises shall mean:
(1)   all real property owned or leased by the city, save and except:
   a   real property used for public thoroughfares, rights-of-way, utility
easements, or drainage easements, or
   b   city-owned parks; or
(2)   all other property lawfully occupied or used by employees of the city in
the furtherance of their official duties.
Concealed handgun shall mean a handgun, the presence of which is not openly
discernible to the ordinary observation of a reasonable person.
Dangerous weapon shall mean any weapon as defined in Section 46.01 of the Texas
Penal Code.
Firearm shall mean any device designed, made or adapted to expel a projectile
through a barrel by using the energy generated by an explosion or burning
substance or any device readily convertible to that use.
Governmental entity shall mean:
(1)   the City Council, meeting in numbers constituting a quorum under the city
Charter;
(2)   any board, commission, or committee duly constituted and authorized or
offically sanctioned by the city, including, but not limited to, those boards,
commissions, and committees enumerated in Article VII of Chapter 2 of the Code
of Ordinances for the City of Longview, and also including the Longview
Economic Development Corporation; or
(3)   any officer, representative or employee of the city, while acting in an
official capacity.
Handgun means any firearm that is designed, made, or adapted to be fired with
one hand.
Meeting of a governmental entity shall mean:
(1)   any meeting involving a governmental entity as defined herein for which
advance notice has been posted in accordance with the Texas Open Meetings Act
or the ordinances of the city; or
(2)   any meeting involving a governmental entity as defined herein which is
open to the public.
(Ord. No. 2521, 12-4-95, Ord. 4019, 12-10-15)
Sec. 25-22. Signage. 
The City Manager, or the City Manager's designee, is hereby authorized and
directed to place signs:
(1)   at the entrances of city premises where any meeting of a governmental
entity is held, which shall indicate that the carrying of a firearm is
prohibited during the meeting;
(2)   at the entrance to the City of Longvie Municipal Court and offices
utilized by the Court, which shall indicate that the carrying of a firearm is
prohibited;
(3)   on the premises of a polling place on the day of an election or while
early voting is in progress, which shall indicate the carrying of a firearm is
prohibited.
Said signs shall comply with the requirements of the Texas Penal Code, and any
other applicable statute.
(Ord. No. 2521, 12-4-95, Ord. No. 4019, 12-10-15)
Sec. 25-23. Public Meeting.
A person commits an offense if he or she carries a firearm at any public
meeting of a governmental entity. This section shall not apply to persons who
are certified as peace officers in accordance with state law.
(Ord. No. 2521, 12-4-95, Ord. No. 3525 § 25, 6-14-07, Ord. No. 4019, 12-10-15)
Sec. 25-24. City Property.
Except as expressly authorized by state or federal law or by this Code, entry
of persons onto city premises while carrying firearms, including concealed
handguns, is hereby declared an act of criminal trespass and is prohibited.
This section shall not apply to persons who are certified as peace officers in
accordance with state law, nor to the possession and/or display of firearms in
conjunction with a gun show or other similar exhibition conducted at the
Longview Activity Complex as authorized by written contract with the city.
(Ord. No. 2521, 12-4-95; Ord. No. 3525, § 26, 6-14-07, Ord. No. 4019, 12-10-15)
Sec. 25-25. Trespass.
Entry on city premises where any meeting of a governmental entity is being
held, when said property is properly marked as provided in Section 25-22, by
persons carrying firearms, including concealed handguns, is prohibited and
shall constitute an immediate breach of the peace. Persons who enter or remain
on city premises or who breach the peace, in violation of this article, shall
be subject to immediate removal from such premises. This section shall not
apply to persons who are certified as peace officers in accordance with state
law, nor to the possession and/or display of firearms in conjunction with a gun
show or other similar program conducted at the Longview Activity Complex as
authorized by written contract with the city.
(Ord. No. 2521, 12-4-95; Ord. No. 3525 & 27, 6-14-07; Ord. No.4019, 12-10-15)
Sec 25-26 Penalties. 
A person licensed to carry a handgun, who carries a firearm, including a
handgun to a meeting of a governmental entity, or upon city premises when it is
prohibited, shall be subject to the provisions and penalties contained in
Section 46.035 of the Texas Penal Code, as amended. Any person carrying a
firearm upon city premises where prohibited, for which no other penalty is
established in State statute, upon conviction, is guilty of a class C
misdemeanor and may be assessed a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00). Unless otherwise specifically set forth herein, or in state law as
adopted, allegation and evidence of culpable mental state are not required for
the proof of an offense defined by this section.
(Ord. No. 2521, 12-4-95; Ord. No. 3525, § 28, 6-14-07, Ord. No. 4019, 12-10-15)
 
Article III.
Excluding Individuals from City Property
Sec. 25-30. Purpose of this chapter.
This chapter establishes a procedure for prohibiting individuals from entering
or remaining upon city property due to the criminal violations or disruptive
conduct of the individual who is being excluded from the property.
(Ord. No. 3776, 8-25-11)
Sec. 25-31. Definitions.
   Exclude shall mean to bar or prohibit entrance.
(Ord. No. 3776, 8-25-11)
Sec. 25-32. Excluding individuals from city property; hearing provided.
 
   a.   When an individual has committed a criminal act or acts, or violates
any rule governing conduct upon a city-owned property, such property as, but
not limited to, the Longview Public Library, city parks or recreational
facilities, or other city buildings, the individual may be excluded from the
property to ensure the safety and security of citizens and employees, and to
provide for the peaceful enjoyment of public property.
   b.    A city employee charged with the supervision of a city property or any
City of Longview Police Officer, is authorized to issue notice to the
individual who has committed a criminal act or acts upon or in close proximity
to the property, or who has violated a rule governing conduct upon city-owned
property, that the individual must leave the property and not return to said
property. The individual being excluded from the city-owned property must be
advised which property he or she is excluded from.
   c.   Upon excluding an individual from city-owned property, the city
employee charged with supervision of the property, or an involved City of
Longview Police Officer, must notify the individual being excluded that he or
she has ten (10) calendar days to appeal the exclusion by contacting the City
of Longview Municipal Court Clerk to establish a time and date for a hearing
before the Judge of the City of Longview Municipal Court. The city employee
charged with supervision of the property, or an involved City of Longview
Police Officer will also provide written notice to the individual being
excluded from the city-owned property of the individual's right to a hearing.
Written notice may be provided to the individual at the time of exclusion, or
by mail to the individual's last known address. The individual being excluded
from city-owned property may not return upon the property from which he or she
is being excluded unless and until the decision to exclude the individual from
city-owned property is overturned by the City of Longview Municipal Court.
   d.   When an individual being excluded from city-owned property requests a
hearing within the prescribed ten (10) calendar day period, the Court shall set
a hearing, said hearing to be held within ten (10) calendar days of receiving
the request, and will immediately notify the City Attorney's Office, the city
employee who excluded the individual from the city-owned property, and the
individual being excluded from the city-owned property.
   e.   The hearing shall be conducted solely to determine if the decision to
exclude the individual from city-owned property should be upheld or overturned.
The Court shall provide a decision in writing upon conclusion of the hearing
and the decision of the City of Longview Municipal Court shall be final. Should
the Court determine that the individual excluded from the city-owned property
should be permitted to return upon such property, the City of Longview
Municipal Court will ensure that the Longview Police Department is notified
that the individual is now permitted on the city-owned property and that all
notations concerning the exclusion are removed from the Police Department
computer.
   f.   An individual who has been excluded from city-owned property may
provide a request in writing to the City of Longview Municipal Court seeking
permission to return upon the city-owned property from which the individual has
been excluded two years after the date of the order excluding the individual
from the city-owned property. The individual must provide an affidavit stating
that he or she has not entered onto the city-owned property during the past two
year period and that the individual has no arrest or criminal convictions
during the same period of time. The Court may then set a hearing at the Court's
convenience and shall notify the City Attorney's Office, the city employee who
excluded the individual from the city-owned property, and the individual who
was excluded from the city-owned property and now seeks permission to return.
   g.   The Judge of the City of Longview Municipal Court shall determine if
the individual previously excluded from city-owned property may return upon
such property or if the individual shall continue to be excluded from the city-
owned property. The Court shall issue a written order of its determination. An
individual who is permitted to return upon the city-owned property from which
he or she has been previously excluded, shall be subject to all statutes,
ordinances, rules, regulation, orders and directives which apply to an
individual entering upon or using said property.
   h.   When an individual who has been previously excluded from city-owned
property is permitted to return upon such property, the City of Longview
Municipal Court will ensure that the Longview Police Department is notified
that the individual is now permitted on the city-owned property and that all
notations concerning the exclusion are removed from the Police Department
computer.
   i.   If an individual is subsequently excluded from any city-owned property
and the exclusion is upheld by the City of Longview Municipal Court, the
individual excluded from the property may not enter the property again.
   j.   The City of Longview City Council hereby dispenses with the requirement
of establishing a culpable mental state in order to prove a violation of the
chapter.
(Ord No. 3776, 8-25-11)
Article IV.
Hours of Use of Certain City Property.
Sec. 25-40. Hours of Use for Longview Public Library Property.
   (a)   As used in this section, the following words shall have the meaning
ascribed herein:
      Longview Public Library Property. The grounds including and surrounding
the Longview Public Library Building (222 West Cotton Street) Longview, Gregg
County, Texas that are contained within the following boundaries; lots 4
through 13 and alley NCB 136 Longview Original Town and the plaza area and
parking lot immediately west of said property.
   (b)   The Longview Public Library Property will be closed to the public each
day from 10:00 p.m. until 7:00 a.m.
   (c)   A person commits an offense if he is on the premises of the Longview
Public Library Property during hours in which the property is closed. The
definition of the offense set forth herein plainly dispenses with the
requirement of any culpable mental state or mental element.
   (d)   A person shall not be in violation of subsection (c) if that person
is:
      (1)   Attending or working at a meeting, special even, activity,
convention, or program that was being conducted with city authorization on the
Longview Public Library Property or subsequently leaving the meeting, special
event, activity, convention, or program within a reasonable time after it has
ended for the day;
      (2)   On the Longview Public Library Property in accordance with the
terms of a lease, rental agreement, contract, or other written permission from
the city; or
      (3)   A city employee or a law enforcement officer in the performance of
official duties."
(Ord. No. 3941, § 2, 8-28-14)
Chapters 26 - 27
Reserved
Chapter 28
Court
Sec.
28-1.   Findings; municipal court of record established.
Sec.
28-2.   Term of judge.
Sec.
28-3.   Operation; applicable provisions.
Sec.
28-4.   Rules.
Sec.
28-5.   Construction of chapter.
Sec.
28-6.   Compensation of jurors.
Sec.
28-7.   Teen court.
Sec.
28-8.   Teen court fee.
Sec.
28-9.   Juvenile Case Manager created; appointment; duties; qualifications.
Sec.
28-10.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-11.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-12.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-13.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-14.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-15.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-16.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-17.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-18.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-19.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-20.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-21.   Reserved.
Sec.
28-22.   Collection service fee - authorized.
Sec.
28-23.   Civil municipal court of record.
Sec.
 
28-24.   Office of the City Marshal - Eliminated.
Sec. 28-1. Findings; municipal court of record established.
In accordance with H.B. 1042, 66th Session, Texas legislature, the City Council
finds and determines that the formation of a municipal court of record is
necessary in order to provide a more efficient disposition of appeals arising
from the municipal court and hereby establishes a municipal court of record to
be known as the "City of Longview Municipal Court" in and for the city,
effective October 1, 1979.
(Ord. No. 1271, Art. I, 9-11-79)
Sec. 28-2. Term of judge.
The judge of the city municipal court shall serve for a period of two years,
the first such term to commence on October 1, 1979 and end on September 30,
1981.
(Ord. No. 1271, Art. II, 9-11-79)
Sec. 28-3. Operation; applicable provisions.
Henceforth, the city municipal court shall operate as provided for in H.B. 1042
and shall comply with all provisions thereof and all other provisions of law
which are applicable to the court of record which is created thereby.
(Ord. No. 1271, Art. III, 9-11-79)
Sec. 28-4. Rules.
The municipal court judge shall provide such rules as are deemed necessary for
the operation of this court, which rules shall not be in conflict with
applicable law.
(Ord. No. 1271, Art. IV, 9-11-79)
Sec. 28-5. Construction of chapter.
The provisions of this chapter shall be construed and interpreted, insofar as
possible, in light of H.B. 1042, and other laws applicable to this court.
(Ord. No. 1271, Art. V, 9-11-79)
Sec. 28-6. Compensation of jurors.
All persons duly and properly summoned by the clerk of the Municipal Court of
Longview to serve as jurors in such court, who shall make appearance in the
municipal court at the time for which they were summoned and who shall not be
excused for service as a juror, shall be entitled to compensation of $5.00 for
each day of jury service in the municipal court.
(Ord. No. 774, § 1, 12-8-70)
Sec. 28-7. Teen court.
(a)   There is hereby established and there shall be operative as a referral
from the municipal court of record of the City of Longview, Texas, a teen court
system.
(b)   The teen court system shall be governed by rules of procedure and
practice approved by the judge of the municipal court and reviewed and approved
by the Longview City Council. Such rules of procedure and practice shall be
consistent with the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Texas Family Code and
shall insure the protection and preservation of the rights of all participants
in the teen court system.
(c)   The teen court system shall be for the referral of the following:
   (1)   Class C misdemeanor cases, including traffic and city ordinance
violations, which the municipal court has jurisdiction under Article 4.14 of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, as amended, and which cases may be referred by
the municipal court under the provisions of Art. 45.52, Texas Code of Criminal
Procedure, or Section 45.52 of the Texas Family Code, as amended; and
   (2)   cases in which the defendant has not successfully completed a teen
court program in the two years preceding the date that the alleged offense
occurred; and
   (3)   cases in which the defendant has entered a plea of nolo contendre,
guilty or true, to the offense; and
   (4)   cases in which the defendant is under the age of 18 or enrolled in an
accredited secondary school in a program leading toward a high school diploma.
(Ord. No. 1957, 4-28-88; Ord. No. 3410, § 2, 9-20-05)
Sec. 28-8. Teen court fee.
(a)    Each person who requests a teen court program shall pay a non-refundable
fee which is established by resolution, as provided by the Article 45.52 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, as amended.
(b)    The fee shall be assessed in each case filed after the effective date of
this section for each person requesting teen court.
(c)    The city shall pay a portion of the established fee to the teen court
program on a monthly basis.
(d)    The teen court program shall, on a monthly basis, account to the
Longview Municipal Court of Record for the receipt and disbursal of the fee.
(Ord. No. 2505, 10-12-95; Ord. No. 3410, § 2, 9-20-05; Ord. No. 3525, §29, 6-
14-07)
Sec. 28-9. Juvenile Case Manager created; appointment; duties; qualifications.
(a)   There is hereby created the position of Juvenile Case Manager for the
city.
(b)   Subject to the approval of the City Manager, the Juvenile Case Manager
shall be appointed by the Clerk of the Municipal Court and hold the position at
the will of the Clerk of the Municipal Court.
(c)   The Juvenile Case Manager shall assist the Clerk and Municipal Court in
administering the Court's juvenile docket; supervise the Court's juvenile
cases; timely report relevant information or recommendations to the Clerk and
Court; assist the City Attorney or the City Attorney's designees, when so
required, in the discovery of testimony and evidence in juvenile cases
prosecuted in the Court; and shall perform such other duties as may be
permitted or required by state law and as the Clerk or Court may reasonably
require.
(d)   The Juvenile Case Manager shall possess such qualifications as required
by state law and such additional qualifications as the Clerk or Court may
reasonably require.
(Ord. No. 2682, § 2, 12-11-97; Ord No. 4243, § 2, 11-14-19; Ord No. 4456, § 2,
8-24-23)
Sec. 28-10. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2682, § 2, 12-11-97, Ord. No. 3928, § 2, 6-12-14; Ord No. 4243, § 2,
11-14-19)
Sec. 28-11. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2682, § 2, 12-11-97; Ord No. 4243, § 2, 11-14-19)
Sec. 28-12. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2682, § 2, 12-11-97; Ord No. 3656 § 2, 9-10-09; Ord No. 4243, § 2,
11-14-19)
Sec. 28-13. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2682, § 2, 12-11-97; Ord No. 3656 § 2, 9-10-09; Ord No. 4243, § 2,
11-14-19)
Sec. 28-14. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2682, § 2, 12-11-97; Ord No. 4243, § 2, 11-14-19)
Sec. 28-15. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2886, § 2, 12-9-99; Ord No. 4243, § 2, 11-14-19)
Sec. 28-16. Same - Technology fee.
(Ord. No. 2886, § 2, 12-9-99; Ord. No. 3430, §2, 1-19-06; Ord No. 3656 § 3, 9-
10-09)
Sec. 28-17. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2886, § 2, 12-9-99; Ord. No. 3430, §2, 1-19-06; Ord No. 4243, § 2,
11-14-19)
Sec. 28-18. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2886, § 2, 12-9-99; Ord No. 4243, § 2, 11-14-19)
Sec. 28-19. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2886, § 2, 12-9-99; Ord. No. 3430, §2, 1-19-06; Ord No. 3656 § 4, 9-
10-09; Ord No. 4243, § 2, 11-14-19)
Sec. 28-20. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2886, § 2, 12-9-99; Ord. No. 3430, §2, 1-19-06; Ord No. 4243, § 2,
11-14-19)
Sec. 28-21. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2886, § 2, 12-9-99; Ord. No. 3430, §2, 1-19-06; Ord No. 4243, § 2,
11-14-19)
Sec. 28-22. Collection Service Fee - Authorized.
There is hereby authorized an additional collection fee as provided in Article
103.0031 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, and said fee shall be set by
resolution of the City Council. Any contract with a private attorney or a
public or private vendor for the provision of collection services must be
approved by City Council.
(Ord. No. 2886, § 2, 12-9-99; Ord. No. 3449, § 2, 5-18-06; Ord No. 3656 § 5, 9-
10-09)
Sec. 28-23. Civil municipal court of record.
(a)   The City of Longview Municipal Court created by Section 28-1 of this Code
is hereby additionally designated as a Civil Municipal Court of Record of the
City of Longview, Texas, whose judge shall hear and determine cases concerning
any of the following:
   (1)   alleged violations of Article III of Chapter 19 of this Code and the
imposition of penalties or remedial measures therefor in accordance with the
provisions of said article, including without limitation the issuance of
warrants for the securing, removal or demolition of dangerous buildings or
structures and the removal of debris from such premises in accordance with the
provisions of said article;
   (2)   matters within the jurisdiction of said court as specified in Article
IV of Chapter 49 of this Code;
   (3)   the issuance of seizure warrants for the seizure and/or removal of
junked vehicles under the authority of Article III of Chapter 49 of this Code
and Subchapter E of Chapter 683 of the Texas Transportation Code; and
   (4)   the issuance of search warrants for the purpose of investigating a
health and safety or nuisance abatement ordinance violation.
(b)   In addition to any other jurisdiction granted in this section or in this
Code, for the purpose of enforcing health and safety and nuisance abatement
ordinances the civil municipal court created by this section shall have
concurrent jurisdiction with a district court or a County Court at Law under
Subchapter B, Chapter 54, Texas Local Government Code, within the city’s
territorial limits and on property owned by the city that is located in the
city’s extraterritorial jurisdiction.
(c)   By virtue of the office, a judge of the City of Longview Municipal Court
created by Section 28-1 of this Code serves as judge of the civil municipal
court created by this section. Such a judge shall not be considered to hold two
offices within the meaning of the Constitution or laws of this state or of the
Charter or ordinances of the City of Longview, Texas.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 5, 1-13-00; Ord. No. 3113, § 8, 3-21-02; Ord. No. 3525, § 30,
6-14-07)
Sec. 28-24. Office of the City Marshal has been ELIMINATED
(Ord . No. 3925, § 2, 5-8-14; Ord. No. 4200, § 2, 3-28-19)
Chapters 29 - 30
Reserved
Chapter 31
Discrimination
Article I. Reserved
Secs.
31-1 - 31-10.   Reserved.
Article II. Housing
Sec.
31-11.   Definitions.
Sec.
31-12.   Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing.
Sec.
31-13.   Discrimination in the financing of housing.
Sec.
31-14.   Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services.
Sec.
31-15.   Exemptions and exclusions.
Sec.
31-16.   Complaints.
Sec.
31-17.   Investigation.
Sec.
31-18.   Unlawful intimidation.
Sec.
31-19.   Cooperation with secretary of housing and urban development.
Sec.
31-20.   Cumulative legal effect.
Sec.
31-21.   Penalty.
Article I.
Reserved
S ecs. 31-1 - 31-10.   Reserved.
Article II.
Housing
Sec. 31-11. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words so used in the present tense include the future, words in
the masculine gender include the feminine, words in the plural number include
the singular, and words in the singular include the plural.
   Discriminatory housing practice means an act that is unlawful under Sections
31-12, 31-13 or 31-14 of this article.
   Dwelling means any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied
as, or designed and intended for occupancy as a residence by one or more
families or any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the
construction or location thereon of any such building, structure or portion
thereof.
   Family includes a single individual.
   Person includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees,
fiduciaries, and any other organization or entity of whatever character.
   To rent includes to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 1, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-12. Discrimination in the sale or rental of housing.
Except as exempted by Section 31-5, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
(1)   refuse to sell or rent, after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or
national origin;
(2)   discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions, or privileges
of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provisions of services or facilities
in connection therewith, because of race, color, sex, religion or national
origin;
(3)   make, print, publish, or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement regarding the sale or rental of a dwelling
that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on race,
color, sex, religion or national origin, or an intention to make any such
preference, limitation or discrimination;
(4)   represent to any person because of race, color, sex, religion or national
origin that any dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when
such dwelling is in fact so available;
(5)   for profit or with the hope or expectation of profit, induce or attempt
to induce any person to sell or rent any dwelling by representations regarding
the entry or prospective entry into the neighborhood of a person or persons of
a particular race, color, sex, religion or national origin;
(6)   for profit or with the hope or expectation of profit to influence or
attempt to influence, by any words, acts, or failure to act, any seller,
purchaser, landlord, or tenant of a dwelling so as to promote the maintenance
of racially segregated housing or so as to retard, obstruct, or discourage
racially integrated housing.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 2, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-13. Discrimination in the financing of housing.
It shall be unlawful for any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company or other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business
consists in whole or in part of the making of commercial or residential real
estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial assistance to a person applying
therefor for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or
maintaining a dwelling; or to discriminate against any such person in the
fixing of the amount, interest rate, brokerage points, duration, or other terms
or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance, because of:
(1)   the race, color, sex, religion, or national origin of such person or of
any person associated with him in connection with such loan or other financial
assistance; or
(2)   the race, color, sex, religion, or national origin of the present or
prospective owners, lessees, tenants, or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings
for which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 3, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-14. Discrimination in the provision of brokerage services.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deny access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers'
organization or other service, organization or facility relating to the
business of selling or renting dwellings, or to discriminate in terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation on account of race,
color, sex, religion or national origin.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 4, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-15. Exemptions and exclusions.
(a)   There shall be exempted from the application of Section 31-12 hereof all
transactions involving:
   (1)   the rental of units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied
or intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently
of each other if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such units as
his residence;
   (2)   the rental of a single room in a dwelling containing living quarters
occupied or intended to be occupied by no more than one family if the person
offering such room for rental actually maintains and occupies the remainder of
such dwelling as his residence and not more than four such rooms are offered;
   (3)   the sale or rental of any single house by a private individual who
owns such a house, provided that:
      a.   the sale or rental is made without the use in any manner of the
sales or rental facilities or the sales or rental services of any real estate
broker, agent or salesman, or of such facilities or services of any person in
the business of selling or renting dwellings or of any employee or agent of any
such broker, agent, salesman or person;
      b.   the sale is made without the publication, posting or mailing of any
advertisement or written notice in violation of subsection 31-12(3) of this
article (this shall not prohibit the use of attorneys, escrow agents,
abstractors, title companies, and other such professional assistance as
necessary to perfect or transfer the title);
      c.   the owner does not own more than three single-family houses at the
time of sale;
      d.   the owner does not own any interest in, nor is there owned or
reserved on his behalf, under any express or voluntary agreement, title to or
any right to all or any portion of the proceeds from the sale or rental of more
than three such single-family houses at any one time;
      e.   if the owner does not reside in the house at the time of sale or was
not the most recent resident of such house prior to the sale, the exemption
granted by this subsection shall apply only with respect to one such sale
within any twenty-four month period.
(b)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization,
association, or society of any nonprofit institution or organization operated,
supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious association, or
society from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same
religion, or from giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such
religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex, or national origin.
(c)   Nothing in this article shall prohibit a bona fide private club, not in
fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose, provides
lodging which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from
limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving
preference to its members.
(d)   Nothing in this article shall bar any person from owning and operating a
housing accommodation in which a room or rooms are leased, subleased or rented
only to persons of the same sex, when such housing accommodation contains
common lavatory, kitchen or similar facilities available for the use of all
persons occupying such housing accommodation.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 5, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-16. Complaints.
(a)   Only the person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory
housing practice or who believes he will be irrevocably injured by a
discriminatory housing practice that has occurred or is occurring (hereafter
referred to as "person aggrieved") may file a complaint with the Director of
Planning and Development or his designated representative. Such complaints
shall be in writing and shall identify the person alleged to have committed or
alleged to be committing a discriminatory housing practice and shall state the
facts upon which the allegations of a discriminatory housing practice are
based.
(b)   If at any time the Director of Planning and Development or his designated
representative shall receive or discover credible evidence and shall have
probable cause to believe that any person or persons have committed or are
committing a discriminatory housing practice as to which no complaint has been
filed, the Director of Planning and Development or his designated
representative may prepare and file a complaint upon his own motion and in his
own name and such complaint shall thereafter be treated in the same manner as a
complaint filed by a person aggrieved.
(c)   The Director of Planning and Development or his designated representative
shall receive and accept notifications and referral complaints from the U.S.
Attorney General and the secretary of housing and urban development pursuant to
the provisions of Title VIII, Fair Housing Act of 1968, Public Law 90-284, and
shall treat such complaints hereunder in the same manner as complaints filed
pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)   No complaints may be filed later than 60 days following the occurrence of
an alleged discriminatory housing practice. Upon the filing or referral of any
complaint, the Director of Planning and Development or his representative shall
provide notice of the complaint by furnishing a copy of such complaint to the
person or persons named therein who allegedly committed or were threatening to
commit an alleged discriminatory housing practice. The accused may file an
answer to the complaint within 15 days of receipt of the written complaint.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 6, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-17. Investigation.
(a)   Upon the filing or referral of a complaint as herein provided, the
Director of Planning and Development or his designated representative shall
cause to be made a prompt and full investigation of the matter stated in the
complaint.
(b)   During or after the investigation, but subsequent to the mailing or the
notice of complaint, the Director of Planning and Development or his
representative shall, if it appears that a discriminatory housing practice has
occurred or is threatening to occur attempt by informal endeavors to effect
conciliation, including voluntary discontinuance of the discriminatory housing
practice and adequate assurance of future voluntary compliance with the
provisions of this article. Nothing said or done in the course of such informal
endeavors may be made public by the Director of Planning and Development or his
designated representative, by the complainant or by any other party to the
proceedings to the extent possible under the Texas Open Records Act, Article
6252-17A, V.T.C.S. and federal law without the written consent of all persons
concerned.
(c)   Upon completion of the investigation and informal endeavors at
conciliation by the Director of Planning and Development or his designated
representative, but within 30 days of the filing of the complaint, if the
efforts to secure voluntary compliance have been unsuccessful, and if the
determination is that a discriminatory housing practice has in fact occurred,
the Director of Planning and Development or his designated representative shall
recommend to the City Attorney that such violation be prosecuted in the
municipal court of the city. With such recommendation, the entire file will be
referred to the City Attorney. The City Attorney shall, within 30 days after
such referral make a determination as to whether to proceed with prosecution of
such complaint in municipal court.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 7, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-18. Unlawful intimidation.
It shall be unlawful for any person to harass, threaten, harm, damage or
otherwise penalize any individual, group or business because he or they have
complied with the provisions of this article, because he or they have exercised
his or their right under this article, or enjoyed the benefits of this article,
or because he or they have made a charge, testified or assisted in any manner
in any investigation, or in any proceeding hereunder or have made any report to
the Director of Planning and Development or his representative.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 9, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-19. Cooperation with secretary of housing and urban development.
The Director of Planning and Development, his designated representative, and
the City Attorney, are authorized to cooperate with the secretary for housing
and urban development and the U.S. Attorney General pursuant to the provisions
of the Title VIII, Fair Housing Act of 1968, Public Law 90-284, and may render
such service to the secretary as they shall deem appropriate to further the
policies of the article.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 10, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-20. Cumulative legal effect.
This article is cumulative in its legal effect and is not in lieu of any and
all other legal remedies which the person aggrieved may pursue.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 8, 11-13-79)
Sec. 31-21. Penalty.
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this article shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be fined as provided in
Section 1-4 for each violation.
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this article may be
enjoined by a suit filed by the city in a court of competent jurisdiction, and
this remedy is in addition to any other penalty provision.
(Ord. No. 1286, § 11, 11-13-79)
Chapter 32
Reserved
Chapter 33
Economic Development
Article I. Chapter 380 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Sec.
33-1.   General statement of purpose and policy.
Sec.
33-2.   Program established; authority.
Sec.
33-3.   Definitions.
Sec.
33-4.   Administration and procedure.
Sec.
33-5.    Acceptance of gifts.
Sec.
33-6.    Forms of Assistance.
Sec.
33-7.    Criteria for participation.
Sec.
33-8.    Additional considerations.
Sec.
33-9    Application.
Sec.
33-10.   380 Agreements terms.
Sec.
33-11   No exemption from ordinances or laws.
Secs.
33-12 - 33-30      Reserved
Article II. Enterprise Zones
Sec.
33-31   Definitions.
Sec.
33-32   Intent to participate in the Texas Enterprise Zone Program; Existing
enterprise zones reconfirmed.
Sec.
33-33   Incentives available in enterprise zones.
Sec.
33-34   Enterprise zones designated as reinvestment zones for tax abatement.
Sec.
33-35   Designation of enterprise zone liaison.
Article III. Home Building Program
Sec.
33-50   Definitions.
Sec.
33-51   Home Building Program established.
Sec.
33-52   Administration.
Sec.
33-53   Terms and Conditions.
Sec.
33-54   Agreements Authorized.
Sec.
33-55   Designation, Acceptance and Conveyance of Lots Authorized.
Article I.
Chapter 380 Economic Development Program
Sec. 33-1.   General statement of purpose and policy.
The City of Longview is committed to the promotion of high quality development
in all parts of the city and to an ongoing improvement in the quality of life
for its citizens. The city has previously developed economic development
programs and incentives designed to encourgage high quality business,
commercial, and manufacturing concerns to locate, remain, and expand in the
City of Longview. Now the city seeks to enhance its economic development
efforts to attract and retain high quality development and jobs by establishing
the Chapter 380 Economic Development Program set forth in this article.
This Chapter 380 Economic Development Program is established in an effort to
develop and expand the local economy by promoting and encouraging development
and redevelopment projects that enhance the city's economic base and diversity
and expand job opportunities or by promoting and encouraging projects that
create additional revenues for the city that exceed any resulting increase in
the demand on city services or infrastructure. The ultimate goal and public
purpose of this Chapter 380 Economic Development Program is to protect and
enhance the city's fiscal ability to provide high quality municipal services
for the safety, comfort and enjoyment of city residents. In furtherance of
these objectives, the City of Longview will, on a case-by-case basis, give
consideration to providing economic incentives to Applicants in accordance with
this article as authorized by Chapter 380 of the Texas Local Government Code,
as amended from time to time.
Nothing in this article is intended to imply or suggest that the City of
Longview is under any obligation to provide any economic incentives to any
Applicant. All Applications shall be considered on a case-by-case basis. The
decision to approve or deny economic incentives shall be at the discretion of
the city. Each Applicant granted Assistance pursuant to this Chapter 380
Economic Development Program must enter into a 380 Agreement containing all
terms required by this article and by state law.
Sec. 33-2.   Program established; authority.
Pursuant to the authority provided by Section 380.001 of the Texas Local
Government Code, there is hereby established a program to promote local
economic development and to stimulate business and commercial activity in the
City of Longview, Texas, by making loans and grants of public money and
providing personnel and services of the municipality.
Sec. 33-3.   Definitions.
As used in this article, the following terms shall have the following meanings
unless context clearly requires otherwise:
   380 Agreement. The term "380 Agreement" shall mean a contract setting forth
the terms of the Assistance and the Applicant's commitments in consideration of
same.
   Administrator. The term "Administration" shall mean the City Manager of the
City of Longview, Texas, or any person or persons designated by said City
Manager to administer the Chapter 380 Economic Development Program.
   Applicant. The term "Applicant" shall mean a person or entity that applies
for Assistance.
   Application. The term "Application" shall mean a request for Assistance.
   Assistance. The term "Assistance" shall mean assistance provided to an
Applicant pursuant to the Chapter 380 Economic Development Program.
   Chapter 380 Economic Development Program. The term "Chapter 380 Development
Program" shall mean the program established by this article.
   City Attorney. The term "City Attorney" shall mean the City Attorney of the
City of Longview, Texas, or the person designated by said City Attorney to
perform the duties and exercise the authority of the City Attorney under this
article.
   Project. The term "Project" shall mean a proposed activity for which an
Applicant requests Assistance.
Sec. 33-4. Administration and procedure.
The Administrator shall administer the Chapter 380 Economic Development
Program. The Administrator shall determine whether an Application complies with
the requirements of this article. Once a complete Application has been
submitted, the Administrator shall review the Application for qualifications of
the Project and of the Applicant and for feasibility of the Project.
The Administrator may approve Assistance for the Project and may negotiate and
execute a 380 Agreement on behalf of the city if the Application, the Project,
and the 380 Agreement comply with the provisions of this article and the total
value of the Assistance is $50,000 or less. Nothing in this article requires
the Administrator to approve any Application, Project, or 380 Agreement.
Nothing in this article prohibits the Administrator from submitting an
Application to the City Council for its consideration, even if the total value
of the Assistance is $50,000 or less.
If the Administrator recommends the approval of Assistance and the total value
of the Assistance exceeds $50,000, then the Administrator shall forward the
Application to the City Council for consideration. If a committee or
subcommittee is designated by the City Council to review Applications, the
Administrator shall first forward any Application that the Administrator
recommends for approval to said committee or subcommittee for its review and
recommendation before forwarding the Application to the City Council The
Administrator, the City Attorney, members of City Council and members of any
committee or subcommittee that may be established to review Application may
request additional information from an Applicant.
City Council approval of any Assistance shall constitute an offer that shall
terminate if the city and the Applicant do not enter a 380 Agreement within 180
days after the date on which the City Council approves the Assistance. If the
City council approves the Assistance, the City Council may authorize the
Administrator to negotiate and execute on behalf of the city a 380 Agreement
pertaining to the Assistance. Alternatively, the Administrator and the
Applicant may negotiate a 380 Agreement subject to City Council approval and
submit the 380 Agreement to City Council for approval at the same time the City
Council considers the Application and the Assistance. As a third alternative,
the City council may require that a 380 Agreement be negotiated and brought to
City Council at a later date for consideration.
All Assistance is subject to appropriation of funds for such Assistance by the
City Council. Assistance shall be provided on a case-by-case basis. Nothing in
this article and nothing in the Application form and process shall create any
property, contract, or other legal right in any person to have the
Administrator or the City Council consider or grant Assistance.
Any Assistance shall be subject to a 380 Agreement that complies with the
provisions of this article and includes such other provisions as the
Administrator and the Applicant may agree upon. Any 380 Agreement and any other
documents related to the Assistance or the 380 Agreement must be in a form
approved by the City Attorney.
Sec. 33-5. Acceptance of gifts.
The Administrator may accept contributions, gifts or other resources to develop
and administer the Chapter 380 Economic Development Program.
Sec. 33-6. Forms of Assistance.
Assistance shall take one of the following forms:
(a)   a loan, which may be secured by deed of trust or appropriate collateral;
(b)   a grant structured as a performance-based grant that requires repayment
if the Applicant does not comply with required performance criteria;
(c)   the use of personnel and services of the city at a reduced cost or
without cost (including without limitation the reduction or waiver of fees for
city services), provided that the applicant may be required to repay the cost
of said personnel and services if the applicant does not comply with required
performance criteria set forth in the agreement between the applicant and the
city;
(d)   the use of personnel and services of the municipality, (including without
limitation the construction of water facilities by the city, the construction
of wastewater facilities by the city, the construction of other improvements by
the city and the postponement of payment of fees for city services) provided
that the applicant may be required to repay the cost of said personnel and/or
services and said promise of repayment may be secured by deed of trust or
appropriate collateral; or
(e)   any combination of the forms of assistance set forth in subsections (a),
(b), (c) and (d) of this section.
Sec. 33-7. Criteria for participation.
In order to qualify for assistance, an applicant and a project must comply with
the following criteria:
(a)   the Application must contain the information required by this article in
such a form as the Administrator shall reasonably require;
(b)   the project must comply with at least one of the following criteria: (i)
the Project complies with the requirements outlined in Section III of the
city's Amended and Restated Criteria and Guidelines for Tax Abatement; or (ii)
the Project is specifically determined by resolution of the City Council to
bring benefit to the city consistent with Section 33-8 of this article; and
(c)   the Project must comply with at least one of the following criteria: (i)
the Project is qualified as a target industry according to the Amended and
Restated Criteria and Guidelines for Tax Abatement; or (ii) the Project will
make a unique or unequaled contribution to development or redevelopment efforts
in the city due to its magnitude, significance to the community or aesthetic
quality; or (iii) the Project will enhance the city's fiscal ability to provide
high quality municipal services for the safety, comfort and enjoyment of city
residents; or (iv) the Project provides for low-income housing in accordance
with state or federal guidelines and/or program; and
(d)   The revenue or the public benefit expected to be realized by the city and
attributable to the Project is commensurate with the value of the Assistance to
be provided.and
Sec. 33-8.   Additional considerations.
Additional factors that may be considered by the city in determining whether to
authorize Assistance are the following:
(a)   the number and types of jobs to be created or retained;
(b)   the financial capacity of the Applicant to undertake and complete the
Project;
(c)   other incentive programs for which the Applicant has applied or is
qualified;
(d)   the market conditions and growth potential for the Project and its effect
on other business activity;
(e)   the feasibility of the Project;
(f)   any recommendation from the Longview Economic Development Corporation
regarding Assistance, the Application, or the Project; and
(g)   any other factors the City Council finds helpful and relevant to
accomplishing the city's economic development objectives.
Sec. 33-9     Application.
An Applicant is responsible for initiating consideration of a particular
Application by submitting the following:
(a)   letter from the Applicant describing the Project, the Project's impact
upon the community and its fiscal effect upon the city and outlining the
specific Assistance requested;
(b)   business plan, including ut not limited to executive summary of the
business plan, company history, historical and pro forma financial information
and resumes of the company principals of the Applicant;
(c)   phase I environmental survey of the real property to be developed;
(d)   survey of the real property to be developed;
(e)   preliminary plans for the proposed real property improvements or
renovations;
(f)   two preceding years' financial statements for the Applicant;
(g)   such other information as the Administrator may reasonably require; and
(h)   any fee for submission of an Application as may be established for same
pursuant to resolution or ordinance of the City Council.
As an alternative to the Application described in the section, the
Administrator may accept an application for tax abatement as an Application
pursuant to this article. If the Applicant qualifies pursuant to the terms of
this article, the city may grant Assistance in lieu of or in addition to tax
abatement.
Sec. 33-10.   380 Agreement terms.
A 380 Agreement must include the following:
(a)   a timetable and list of the kind of improvements or development that the
Project will include, and conditions to assure that the Project meets or
exceeds the city's requirements pertaining to property values and revenues,
which in no event shall be less than the minimum Project requirements
established in the article;
(b)   a complete description of the location of the proposed Project or
Projects;
(c)   a timetable and list of the kind and amount of property values, revenues,
incomes or other public benefits that the proposed Project will provide;
(d)   a provision establishing the duration of the 380 Agreement;
(e)   a provision identifying the method of calculating and the source of
funding for any Assistance;
(f)   a provision providing a tangible means for measuring whether the
Applicant and other responsible parties have met their obligation under the 380
Agreement;
(g)   a provision providing for access to and authorizing inspection of the
Project and Applicant's pertinent business records by the city's employees or
agents in order to determine compliance with the 380 Agreement;
(h)   a provision for cancellation of the 380 Agreement and/or nonpayment of
Assistance if the Project fails to comply with the 380 Agreement;
(i)   a provision for recapturing city funds granted or loaned or for
recapturing the value of other Assistance if the Applicant fails to comply with
the 380 Agreement;
(j)   such other provisions as the Applicant and the city may negotiate provide
that nothing in a 380 Agreement shall conflict with any provision of this
article.
Sec. 33-11   No exemption from ordinances or laws.
Except as expressly provided otherwise in this article, neither the provision
of any Assistance nor anything in this article or any agreement or document
executed pursuant to this article shall be construed to exempt a Project or the
Applicant from the obligation to comply fully with the city's building codes,
zoning ordinances, utility codes, and any other ordinances and any state and
federal laws that are applicable to the Project.
(Ord. No. 3401, § 2, 7-28-05 repealed, Ord. No. 3858, § 3, 1-24-13, Ord. No.
3889, § 33, 9-12-13)
Sec. 33-12 - 33-30 Reserved.
Article II.
Enterprise Zones
Sec. 33-31. Definitions
In this article, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned to them
in this section unless the context clearly requires otherwise:
   Enterprise project.  The term “enterprise project” shall mean a project or
activity designated as an enterprise project pursuant to the Texas Enterprise
Zone Act and within the jurisdiction of the City as said jurisdiction is
defined by the Texas Enterprise Zone Act.
   Enterprise zone. The term “enterprise zone” shall mean an area within the
jurisdiction of the City as said jurisdiction is defined by the Texas
Enterprise Zone Act and designated as an enterprise zone pursuant to the Texas
Enterprise Zone Act.
   Nominated projects or activities. The term “nominated projects or
activities” shall mean any project or activity nominated by the City for status
as an enterprise project.
   Qualified business. The term “qualified business” shall have the meaning
assigned to that term in the Texas Enterprise Zone Act.
   Qualified employee. The term “qualified employee” shall have the meaning
assigned to that term in the Texas Enterprise Zone Act.
   Texas Enterprise Zone Act. The term “Texas Enterprise Zone Act” shall mean
Texas Government Code Chapter 2303.
Sec. 33-32.   Intent to participate in the Texas Enterprise Zone Program.
It is the intent of the City Council that the City of Longview shall
participate in the Texas Enterprise Zone Program as provided in this article.

(Ord. No. 4152, § 2, 2-22-18)
Sec. 33-33.   Incentives available in enterprise zones.
To the fullest extent allowed by law, the following local incentives, at the
election of the City Council, may be made available to projects or activities
in an enterprise zone, including without limitation nominated projects or
activities of qualified businesses in an enterprise zone:
(a)   The city may abate taxes on the increase in value of real property
improvements and eligible personal property that locate in a designated
enterprise zone. The level of abatement shall be based upon the amount of
capital investment by the business receiving the abatement, the extent to which
the business receiving the abatement creates jobs for qualified employees, and
any other applicable criteria set forth in the City's Amended and Restated
Criteria and Guidelines for Tax Abatement, as same may from time to time be
amended by the City Council.
(b)   The City may provide:

1.   Incentives as allowed under the 4A sales tax;
2.   Grants or incentives through Chapter 380 agreements, including without
limitation incentives based on the refunding of local sales tax;
3.   Other tax deferrals, tax refunds or tax incentives.
(c)   The City may create Tax increment Reinvestments zones to aid in the
revitalization of areas with Tax Increment Financing.
(d)   The City may provide regulatory relief to businesses, including:

1.   Zoning changes or variances;
2.   Exemptions from unnecessary building code requirements, impact fees, or
inspection fees; or
3.   Streamlined permitting.
(e)   The City may provide enhanced municipal services to businesses,
including:

1.   Improved police and fire protection
2.   Institution of community crime prevention programs; or
3.   Special public transportation routes or reduced fares.
(f).   The City may provide improvements in community facilities, including:

1.   Capital improvements in water and sewer facilities;
2.   Road repair; or
3.   Creation or improvement of parks.
(g)   The City may provide improvements to housing, including:

1.   Low-interest loans for housing rehabilitation, improvement, or new
construction; or
2.   Transfer of abandoned housing to individuals or community groups.
(h)   The City may provide business and industrial development services,
including:

1.   Low-interest loans for business;
2.   Use of surplus buildings or other underutilized publicly owned facilities
as small business incubators;
3.   Provision of publicy owned land for development purposes, including
residential, commercial, or industrial development; the City may sell real
property owned by the City and located in the enterprise zone in accordance
with Section 2303.513 of the Texas Government Code.
4.   Creation of special one-stop permitting and problem resolution centers or
ombudsmen; or
5.   Promotion and marketing services.
(i)   The City with cooperation with local educational institutions may provide
job training and employment services to businesses, including:

1.   Retraining programs;
2.   Literacy and employment skills programs;
3.   Vocational education; or
4.   Customized job training.
   
(Ord. No. 4152, § 2, 2-22-18; Ord. No. 4518, § 2, 8-22-24)
Sec. 33-34.   Enterprise zones designated as reinvestment zones for tax
abatement.
The enterprise zone areas within the city are reinvestment zones in accordance
with the Texas Tax Code, Chapter 312.
Sec. 33-35. Designation of enterprise zone liaison.
The President/CEO of the Longview Economic Development Corporation shall serve
as the City’s liaison to communicate and negotiate with the Office of the
Governor Economic Development & Tourism through the Economic Development Bank
and enterprise project(s) and to oversee enterprise zone activities and
communications with qualified businesses and other entities in an enterprise
zone or affected by an enterprise project.
(Ord. No. 3405, § 2, 8-11-05; Ord. No. 4152, § 2, 2-22-18))
Article III. Home Building Program
Sec. 33-50. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:
(a)   City shall mean the City of Longview, Texas.
(b)   City Attorney shall mean the City Attorney of the City or any attorney
designated by said City Attorney to carry out the functions and exercise the
authority assigned to the City Attorney in this article.
(c)   City Council shall mean the City Council of the City of Longview, Texas.
(d)   City Manager shall mean the City Manager of the City or any person
designated by said City Manager to carry out the functions and exercise the
authority assigned to the City Manager in this article.
(e)   City-owned Tract shall mean any parcel of real property that is owned by
the City of Longview and in which no other Taxing Entity has any ownership
interest, that is less than one acre in area, and that is either vacant or
distressed, and if a structure is located therein, the structure is unoccupied.
(f)   Contract with a Taxing Entity shall mean any agreement by and between the
City and any other Taxing Entity or Taxing Entities wherein the other Taxing
Entity or Taxing Entities agree to designate Lots for use in the Home Building
Program.
(g)   Home Building Entity shall mean such individuals or organizations as
shall, from time to time, apply for or receive a Lot or Lots under the Home
Building Program. Home Building Entities means the plural of Home Building
Entity.
(h)   Home Building Program shall mean the program described in this article.
(i)   Household shall mean all persons who occupy the same housing unit.
(j)   Income Eligible Persons shall mean any person who is or persons who are a
member of a Household in which either (i) the gross annual income of the
Household does not exceed eighty (80%) percent of the median income for
Households of the same number of persons in the same area, as said median
income is defined by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development or (ii) the combined annual income of the Household does not exceed
the applicable combined income limit for participation in the Texas Mortgage
Credit Certificate Program, as said limit may from time to time be amended or
established by the Texas Department of Housing and Community Affairs or its
successor agency.
(k)   Lot and Lots shall mean any parcel or parcels of real property designated
by the City or by another Taxing Entity for use in the Home Building Program.
(l)   Program Administrator shall mean the person or persons appointed by the
City Manager to administer the Home Building Program.
(m)   Taxing Entity and Taxing Entities shall mean the City of Longview, Texas;
Gregg County, Texas; Harrison County, Texas; Hallsville Independent School
District; Longview Independent School District; Pine Tree Independent School
District; or Spring Hill Independent School District, individually,
collectively or in any combination, in accordance with the context.
(Ord. No. 4015, § 2, 12-10-15)
Sec. 33-51. Home Building Program Established.
There is hereby created a program for recycling residential Lots as described
herein, the aforesaid program to be designated as the Home Building Program.
The purpose of the Home Building Program shall be to recycle or place
residential Lots or parcels of real property that have been foreclosed for
delinquent ad valorem taxes or for other reasons and that have not been
redeemed by their owners in accordance with state law, into a pool for use by
the City or by the Homebuilding Entities for the construction or rehabilitation
of single-family residential houses for qualified low- or moderate-income
individuals, thereby helping to alleviate community blight, removing said
property from the group of properties maintained by the City, enhancing the tax
base for the Taxing Entities by fostering the construction and rehabilitation
of single-family residential homes, and generally improving the health, safety,
and welfare of the citizens of the City.
Sec. 33-52. Administration.
The Home Building Program shall be administered by the Program Administrator,
who shall be in charge of and have immediate responsibility for implementation
of the Home Building Program.
Sec. 33-53. Terms and Conditions.
The Home Building Program shall be subject to the following terms and
conditions:
(a)   As Lots become available through a Contract with a Taxing Entity, those
Lots shall be placed in a pool.
(b)   Periodically, the City shall notify the Homebuilding Entities as to the
location of the Lots.
(c)   Each Home Building Entity shall agree to complete rehabilitation or
construction of a single-family residential structure on each Lot conveyed to
the Home Building Entity.
(d)   Precedent to the conveyance of a Lot, the Program Administrator may
require the Homebuilding Entity to obtain detalied title information from a
reputable title company regarding the title status of the designated Lot, and
to provide such information to the City. Based on said title information, the
City may assess the quality of title the City may approve for said Lot, and
may, subject to the provisions of any applicable Contract with a Taxing Entity
and subject to any applicable limitations in state law, as trustee on behalf of
the Taxing Entities, convey to the Homebuilding Entity by title deed, up to a
special warranty deed, the interests of the Taxing Entities in the property.
(e)   Each Homebuilding Entity to which a Lot is conveyed shall be solely
responsible for the maintenance of each Lot during any period that they
Homebuilding Entity owns the Lot, including mowing, cleaning, etc., in
conformance with all applicable City ordinances.
(f)   All construction of new homes on any Lot shall comply with all applicable
City codes and ordinances, including but not limited to the City Building Code,
Plumbing Code, Electrical Code, Fire Code, and Zoning Ordinance, except as such
may, from time to time, be varied or waived in accordance with law.
(g)   The terms of any contract between the City and any Homebuilding Entity
for the participation of the Homebuilding Entity in the Home Building Program
shall be in a form acceptable to the City Attorney.
(h)   Each Homebuilding Entity shall covenant and agree that the Lots provided
to the Homebuilding Entity pursuant to the Home Building Program shall be used
and utilized exclusively in a program to construct or rehabilitate single-
family residential houses for purchase by Income Eligible Persons, and for no
other purpose.
(i)   The deed for any Lot conveyed to a Homebuilding Entity as part of the
Home Building Program shall meet all applicable requirements set forth in state
law, including without limitation the requirements of §34.051 of the Texas Tax
Code, if applicable.
(j)   Subject to approval by the City Manager, the Program Administrator shall
have the authority to specify such other reasonable terms and conditions as
shall be necessary or convenient to carry out the Home Building Program,
including without limitation any application procedures and requirements
necessary to apply for designation as eligible to participate as a Homebuilding
Entity in the Home Building Program; provided, however, that all such terms and
conditions must comply with the terms and conditions of this article and with
any and all applicable requirements of law.
(k)   Anything to the contrary in this article notwithstanding, the inclusion
of any Lot in the Home Building Program and the conveyance of any Lot shall be
subject to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of any applicable
Contract with a Taxing Entity, and, wherever possible, the provisions of any
applicable Contract with a Taxing Entity shall be cumulative of and in addition
to the provisions of this article and the terms and conditions of the Home
Building Program.
(l)   Anything to the contrary in this article notwithstanding, the City, in
the City's discretion, may act as a Homebuilding Entity with respect to any Lot
and provide for the construction or rehabilitation of single-family residential
houses on said Lot and the conveyance of said Lot directly to Income Eligible
Persons without conveying said Lot to a Homebuilding Entity. To the fullest
extent possible, the City shall comply with the requirements of this article
when acting as a Homebuilding Entity as authorized by this section. Nothing in
this section authorizes the City to violate any applicable provision of any
Contract with a Taxing Entity.
Sec. 33-54. Agreements Authorized.
(a)   The City Manager, the City Manager's designee and any other official of
the City as shall be required, are hereby authorized to negotiate and execute
any and all contracts and other documents, as approved by the City Attorney's
Office, associated with the Home Building Program, including, without
limitation, any and all contracts and other documents between the City and any
Homebuilding Entity for the Hombebuilding Entity's participation in the Home
Building Program; provided, however, that the Homebuilding Entity shall have
been designated by the Program Administrator for participation in the Home
Building Program and that all such contracts comply with the applicable
requirements of this article.
(b)   The City Manager or the City Manager's designee and any other official fo
the City as shall be required are hereby authorized and directed to negotiate
and execute any Contract with a Taxing Entity and any and all contracts and
other documents, as approved by the City Attorney's Office, incident to the
execution and fulfillment of said Contract with a Taxing Entity, including,
without limitation, any interlocal agreement, tax trust agreement, and/or
limited power of attorney by and between the City and any Taxing Entity or
combination of Taxing Entities for the purpose of designating the City as
trustee for Lots so that said Lots may be used in support of the Home Building
Program; provided, however, that any agreement authorizing the City to convey
Lots under the authority of §34.051 of the Texas Tax Code must comply with the
provisions of said section.
Sec. 33-55. Designation, Acceptance and Conveyance of Lots Authorized.
(a)   The City Manager shall have and is hereby granted the authority, without
further approval from the City Council, to designate any City-owned Tract as a
Lot for purposes of participation in the Home Building Program and to convey
said Lot as provided in this article without further approval of the City
Council. The City Manager may designate a City-owned Tract for participation as
a Lot in the Home Building Program regardless of whether the City-owned Tract
otherwise meets the definition of "Lot" in any Contract with a Taxing Entity.
(b)   Subject to the terms and conditions of this article, the City Manger and/
or any other official of the City as shall be required is/are hereby authorized
to negotiate and execute, without further approval of the City Council, any and
all deeds, contracts and other documents, as approved by the City Attorney,
necessary for the acceptance and/or designation of any Lot or Lots for
participation in the Home Building Program and the conveyance of any Lot or
Lots to any Home Building Entity in accordance with the Home Building Program.
(c)   Contingent upon authorization by the City Council, the City may sell any
Lot that, in the City's discretion, is unsuitable for participation or use in
the Home Building Program or is unlikely to be used for the Home Building
Program. Any such Lot will be sold in accordance with and only as authorized by
the applicable provisions of Chapter 34 fo the Texas Tax Code and the proceeds
from any such sale shall be distributed as provided by the applicable
provisions of said chapter. Nothing in this section authorizes the City to
violate any applicable provision of any Contract with a Taxing Entity.
(Ord. No. 4015, 12-10-15; Ord. No. 4150 3-8-
18)                                                                        
Chapter 34
Elections
Secs.
34-1 - 34-18.    Reserved.
Sec.
34-19.    Council district boundaries.
Secs. 34-1 - 34-18. Reserved.
Sec. 34-19. Council district boundaries.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 of the Home Rule Charter of
the city adopted by the voters of this city on April 1, 1978, the City Council
hereby adopts the district map attached to Ordinance 3078, setting forth the
geographical boundaries of City Council districts 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 as the
official Council district map for the election of City Council members. The
official district map shall be made a part of the official records of the city
and shall be maintained by the City Secretary.
(Ord. No. 3078, § 2, 11-8-01)
Chapters 35 - 36
Reserved
Chapter 37
Reserved
Chapters 38 - 39
Reserved
Chapter 40
Fire Prevention
Article I. In General
Sec.
40-1.   Arson reward.
Sec.
40-2.   Conflict of interests of fire department employees and Fire Marshal.
Sec.
40-3.   Combustible waste matter in buildings in fire zones.
Secs.
40-4 - 40-6.  Reserved.
Sec.
40-7.   Closing of vacant buildings.
Sec.
40-8.   Building fires on pavement.
Secs.
40-9 - 40-18.   Reserved.
Article II. Reserved
Secs.
40-19 - 40-38. Reserved.
Article III. Fire Marshal
Sec.
40-39.   Office created; appointment.
Sec.
40-40.   Qualifications.
Sec.
40-41.   Deputies.
Sec.
40-42.   General.
Sec.
40-43.   Reserved.
Sec.
40-43.1.  Right of entry.
Sec.
40-44.   Warrant.
Sec.
40-45.   Duty when evidence indicates crime connection with fire.
Sec.
40-46.   Misconduct of witnesses summoned by Fire Marshal.
Sec.
40-47.   Identification.
Sec.
40-48.   Notices and orders.
Sec.
40-49.   Official records.
Sec.
40-49.1.  Reserved.
Sec.
40-49.2.  Inspections.
Sec.
40-49.3.  Fire records.
Sec.
40-49.4.  Reserved.
Sec.
40-50.   Reserved.
Sec.
40-50.1.  Material and equipment reuse.
Sec.
40-50.2.  Technical assistance.
Sec.
40-51.   Reserved.
Sec.
40-52.   Reserved.
Sec.
40-53.   Fire investigations.
Sec.
40-53.1.  Assistance from other agencies.
Sec.
40-54.   Authority at fires and other emergencies.
Sec.
40-54.1.  Barricades.
Sec.
40-54.2.  Obstructing operations.
Sec.
40-54.3.  Systems and devices.
Secs.
40-55 - 40-59. Reserved.
Article IV. Fire Department
Sec.
40-60.   Office of Chief created; appointment; employment of firemen.
Sec.
40-61.   Duties and powers of Fire Chief and firemen.
Sec.
40-62.   Right of entry.
Sec.
40-63.   Investigation of fires; report.
Sec.
40-64.   Investigation of fires apparently resulting from carelessness or
design.
Sec.
40-65.   Authority to examine premises where fire occurs and adjoining
premises.
Sec.
40-66.   Authority of Fire Chief to take testimony, etc.
Sec.
40-67.   Witnesses in contempt.
Sec.
40-68.   Scope of inspections of buildings and premises.
Sec.
40-69.   Order to eliminate hazards.
Sec.
40-70.   Review of order to eliminate hazard.
Secs.
40-71 - 40-80.  Reserved.
Article V. Fire Alarms
Sec.
40-81    Purpose and scope.
Sec.
40-82   Definitions.
Sec.
40-83   Alarm permit requirements.
Sec.
40-84   Duties of alarm user.
Sec.
40-85   Duties of alarm company.
Sec.
40-86   False alarms; service fees.
Sec.
40-87   Alarm permit suspension and revocation; reinstatement.
Sec.
40-88   Appeals.
Sec.
40-89   Violation; fine.
Secs.
40-90-40-115   Reserved.
Article VI. Reserved
 
Article VII. Reserved
 
Article I.
In General
Sec. 40-1. Arson reward.
(a)   The city hereby offers a reward of $1,000.00, payable to any person
furnishing information leading to the arrest and final conviction of any person
guilty of arson within the corporate limits of the city. Not more than
$1,000.00 will be paid for information leading to the arrest and final
conviction of one or more persons guilty of arson in connection with any one
fire and when information is given by more than one person leading to the
arrest and final conviction of any person guilty of arson, then the City
Council will determine the manner of proration of the $1,000.00 reward. The
reward is a standing offer and shall be paid out of the general fund of the
city.
(b)   The City Secretary is hereby authorized and instructed to have posted not
less than 25 placards in or on different buildings in the city advising of the
reward herein established.
(Ord. No. 363, §1, 2, 7-14-59; Ord. No. 1225, Art. 1, 2-6-79)
Sec. 40-2. Conflict of interests of fire department employees and Fire Marshal.
Neither the Fire Marshal, Fire Chief nor any fireman shall be interested,
either directly or indirectly, in the sale of any fire apparatus or fire
extinguisher of any kind, nor shall he be engaged in any character or kind of
insurance business, or any other business.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-19)
Sec. 40-3. Combustible waste matter in buildings in fire zones.
No person shall be permitted to place or let remain in any box or barrel or
otherwise in any building, basement, street alleyway or yard within the fire
limits, longer than six hours, any loose straw, hay, paper, empty boxes,
barrels, crates or other combustible matter in such quantity as to become
dangerous, in the opinion of the inspecting officer, and all owners or
occupants of buildings or basements within such limits are hereby required to
permit any officer or member of the fire department, to inspect their building,
basements and premises, to see if this article is complied with, and it is
hereby made the duty of the Fire Chief to authorize such inspections.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-12)
Secs. 40-4 - 40-6. Reserved.
Sec. 40-7. Closing of vacant buildings.
Whenever any unoccupied building or structure in the city is not properly
secured or closed, the Fire Chief, or Fire Marshal shall notify the owner or
person having control of such premises to forthwith secure or close the same,
so as to prevent unauthorized persons from gaining access thereto, and the
person so notified as aforementioned shall, within 48 hours, comply with such
orders as may be issued by the Fire Chief or Marshal.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-16)
Sec. 40-8. Building fires on pavement.
It shall be unlawful for any person within the city, to build a fire upon the
surface of a paved street, curb or gutter.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-17)
Secs. 40-9 - 40-18.   Reserved.
Article II.
Reserved
Secs. 40-19 - 40-38. Reserved.
Article III.
Fire Marshal
Sec. 40-39. Office created; appointment.
The office of Fire Marshal of the city is hereby created and such office shall
be filled by some suitable and competent person selected by the City Manager.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-18) (Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-40.   Qualifications.
The Fire Marshal shall be properly qualified for the duties of his office.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-41.   Deputies.
In accordance with the prescribed procedures of this jurisdiction and with the
concurrence of the City Manager, the Fire Marshal shall have the authority to
appoint Deputy Fire Marshals, other related technical officers, inspectors and
other employees.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-42.   General.
The Fire Marshal is hereby authorized to enforce the provisions of this code
and issue citations for violations of this code. The Fire Marshal shall have
the authority to render interpretations of this code with regard to any
inspections conducted by the Fire Marshal to ascertain compliance with the
provisions of this code relating to fire safety and with regard to any
citations or permits issued by the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-0; Ord. No. 4031, 1-28-16)
Sec. 40-43.    Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01; Ord. No. 4031, 1-28-16)
Sec. 40-43.1. Right of entry.
Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the provisions of
this code, or whenever the Fire Marshal has reasonable cause to believe that
there exists in a building or upon any premises any conditions or violations of
this code which make the building or premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous,
the Fire Marshal shall have the authority to enter the building or premises at
all reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed upon the Fire
Marshal by this code. If such building or premises is occupied, the Fire
Marshal shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If such
building or premises is unoccupied, the Fire Marshal shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control
of the building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Fire
Marshal has recourse to every remedy provided by law to secure entry.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-44. Warrant.
When the Fire Marshal has first obtained a proper inspection warrant or other
remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner or occupant or person having
charge, care or control of the building or premises shall not fail or neglect,
after proper request is made as herein provided, to permit entry therein by the
Fire Marshal for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to this
code.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-45.   Duty when evidence indicates crime in connection with fire.
If the Fire Marshal is of the opinion that there is evidence sufficient to
charge any person with the crime of arson, or with the attempt to commit the
crime of arson, or of conspiracy to defraud, or criminal conduct in connection
with any fire, he shall cause such person to be lawfully arrested and charged
with such offense or either of them, and shall furnish to the proper
prosecuting attorney all such evidence, together with the names of witnesses
and all of the information obtained by him, including a copy of all pertinent
and material testimony taken in the case.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-46.   Misconduct of witnesses summoned by Fire Marshal.
Any witness who refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear or testify, or
who disobeys any lawful order of the Fire Marshal, or who fails or refuses to
produce any book, paper or document touching any matter under examination, or
who is guilty of any contemptuous conduct during any of the proceedings of the
Fire Marshal in the matter of an investigation or inquiry authorized by this
article, after being summoned to give testimony in relation to any matter under
investigation as aforesaid shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and it
shall be the duty of the Fire Marshal to cause all such offenders to be
prosecuted.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-47.   Identification.
The Fire Marshal shall carry proper identification when inspecting structures
or premises in the performance of duties under this code.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-48.   Notices and orders.
The Fire Marshal is authorized to issue such notices or orders as are required
to affect compliance with this code in accordance with this code.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec 40-49.    Official records.
The Fire Marshal shall keep official records as required by this code. Such
official records shall be retained for not less than five years or for as long
as the structure or activity to which such records relate remains in existence,
unless otherwise provided by other regulations.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-49.1. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01; Ord. No. 4031, 1-28-16)
Sec. 40-49.2. Inspections.
The Fire Marshal shall keep a record of each inspection made, including notices
and orders issued, showing the findings and disposition of each.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-49.3. Fire records.
The fire department shall keep a record of fires occurring within its
jurisdiction and of facts concerning the same, including statistics as to the
extent of such fires and the damage caused thereby, together with other
information as required by the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-49.4. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01; Ord. No. 4031, 1-28-16)
Sec. 40-50.   Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01; Ord. No. 4031, 1-28-16)
Sec. 40-50.1. Material and equipment reuse.
Materials, equipment and devices shall not be reused or reinstalled unless such
elements have been reconditioned, tested and placed in good and proper working
condition and approved.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-50.2. Technical assistance.
To determine the acceptability of technologies, processes, products,
facilities, materials and uses attending the design, operation or use of a
building or premises subject to the inspection of the department, the Fire
Marshal is authorized to require the owner or agent to provide, without charge
to the jurisdiction, a technical opinion and report. The opinion and report
shall be prepared by a qualified engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire
safety specialty organization acceptable to the Fire Marshal and shall analyze
the fire safety properties of the design, operation or use of the building or
premises and the facilities and appurtenances situated thereon, to recommend
necessary changes. The Fire Marshal is authorized to require design submittals
to be prepared by, and bear the stamp of, a registered design professional.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-51.   Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01; Ord No. 4031, 1-28-16)
Sec. 40-52.   Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01; Ord. No. 4031, 1-28-16)
Sec. 40-53.   Fire investigations.
The Fire Marshal, the fire department or other responsible authority shall have
the authority to investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of any fire,
explosion or other hazardous condition. Information that could be related to
trade secrets or processes shall not be made part of the public record except
as directed by a court of law.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-53.1. Assistance from other agencies.
Police and other enforcement agencies shall have authority to render necessary
assistance in the investigation of fires when requested to do so.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-54.   Authority at fires and other emergencies.
The Fire Chief or officer of the fire department in charge at the scene of a
fire or other emergency involving the protection of life or property or any
part thereof shall have the authority to direct such operation as necessary to
extinguish or control any fire, perform any rescue operation, investigate the
existence of suspected or reported fires, gas leaks or other hazardous
conditions or situations, or take any other action necessary in the reasonable
performance of duty. In the exercise of such power, the Fire Chief is
authorized to prohibit any person, vehicle, vessel or thing from approaching
the scene and is authorized to remove, or cause to be removed or kept away from
the scene, any vehicle, vessel or thing which could impede or interfere with
the operations of the fire department and, in the judgment of the Fire Chief,
any person not actually and usefully employed in the extinguishing of such fire
or in the preservation of property in the vicinity thereof.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-54.1. Barricades.
The Fire Chief or officer of the fire department in charge at the scene of an
emergency is authorized to place ropes, guards, barricades or other
obstructions across any street, alley, place or private property in the
vicinity of such operation so as to prevent accidents or interference with the
lawful efforts of the fire department to manage and control the situation and
to handle fire apparatus.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-54.2. Obstructing operations.
No person shall obstruct the operations of the fire department in connection
with extinguishment or control of any fire, or actions relative to other
emergencies, or disobey any lawful command of the Fire Chief or officer of the
fire department in charge of the emergency, or any part thereof, or any lawful
order of a police officer assisting the fire department.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Sec. 40-54.3. Systems and devices.
No person shall render a system or device inoperative during an emergency
unless by direction of the Fire Chief or fire department official in charge of
the incident.
(Ord. No. 3082, § 2, 12-13-01)
Secs. 40-55 - 40-59. Reserved.
Article IV.
Fire Department
Sec. 40-60. Office of Chief created; appointment; employment of firemen.
The office of Chief of the Fire Department is hereby created and established.
The Chief of the Fire Department shall be selected by the City Manager, subject
to the approval and ratification of the City Council; and the firemen shall be
employed as in the city Charter provided.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-1)
Sec. 40-61. Duties and powers of Fire Chief and firemen.
It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief and all other men of the uniformed and
nonuniformed force of the fire department, to enforce all laws and ordinances
of the state and the city, with equal authority with the police, covering the
following:
(1)   the prevention of fires.
(2)   the storage and use of explosives and inflammables. The installation and
maintenance of automatic and other fire alarm systems and all fire
extinguishing equipment not provided for in the building code.
(3)   the maintenance and regulation of fire escapes, proper designation of
such in all buildings provided with such means of escape, access thereto,
obstructions thereto, etc., as provided for in the Texas Fire Escape Law,
Articles 3955-3972 Revised Statutes of the State of Texas.
(4)   the investigation of the cause, origin and circumstances of fires as
provided elsewhere in this title.
(5)   the investigation of all buildings and premises especially susceptible to
fire and the correction of conditions necessary for the safety of life and
property.
(6)   the investigation of any and all hazardous occupancies and the correction
of conditions necessary for the surety of life and property.
(7)   the right of entry for the purpose of inspection, as often as may be
necessary, of all buildings, premises and private thoroughfares for the purpose
of ascertaining and causing to be corrected conditions liable to cause fire,
hinder or hamper the workings of the fire department in case of fire or
violations of the provisions or intent of this article or any ordinance of the
city.
(8)   power to perform such duties as are set forth in other articles of this
chapter and as may be conferred and imposed from time to time by executive
order of the City Manager or by ordinance or resolution of the City Council of
the city, the power to do whatever may be deemed necessary for the safety and
protection of property and citizens from fire hazards.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-2)
Sec. 40-62. Right of entry.
The Fire Chief, or any officer or member of the fire department designated by
the Fire Chief, shall have the right and authority to enter any building or
upon any premises in the city at any time during business hours for the purpose
of making investigations consistent with the duties imposed herein.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-3)
Sec. 40-63. Investigation of fires; report.
The Fire Chief or any officer or member of the fire department designated by
the Fire Chief shall investigate the cause, origin and circumstances of every
fire occurring in the city by which life was jeopardized or lost, or property
was damaged or destroyed. Such investigations shall be started immediately upon
the occurrence of every fire, or as soon thereafter as possible.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-4)
Sec. 40-64. Investigation of fires apparently resulting from carelessness or
design.
The Fire Chief shall immediately be notified whenever it appears that a fire
has resulted from carelessness, design, violation or neglect to comply with
this chapter or any of the ordinances of the city. The Fire Chief shall then
take immediate charge of the physical evidence, shall notify all proper
authorities designated by law to pursue the investigation of such matters and
shall further cooperate with the authorities in the collection of evidence and
in the prosecution of the case.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-5)
Sec. 40-65. Authority to examine premises where fire occurs and adjoining
premises.
The Fire Chief shall have the authority at all times of the day or night, when
necessary in the performance of the duties imposed upon him by the provisions
of this article, to enter upon and examine any building or premises where any
fire has occurred, and other buildings and premises adjoining or near the same,
which authority shall be exercised only with reason and good discretion.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-6)
Sec. 40-66. Authority of Fire Chief to take testimony, etc.
The Fire Chief or his representative, when in his opinion further investigation
is necessary, shall take or cause to be taken the testimony on oath, of all
persons supposed to be cognizant of any facts or to have means of knowledge in
relation to the matter as to which an examination is herein required to be made
and shall cause the same to be reduced to writing. The Fire Chief shall have
the power to summon witnesses before him to testify in relation to any matter
which is, by the provisions of this article, a subject of inquiry and
investigation, and may require the production of any book, paper or document
pertinent thereto, and the Fire Chief is authorized to administer oaths to such
witnesses.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-8)
Sec. 40-67. Witnesses in contempt.
Any witness who refuses to be sworn, or who refuses to appear to testify, or
who disobeys any lawful order of the Fire Chief, or who fails or refuses to
produce any book, paper, material or document touching any matter under
examination, or who is guilty of any contemptuous conduct during any of the
proceedings of the Fire Chief, in the matter of such investigation or inquiry,
after being summoned to give testimony in relation to any matter under
investigation, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-8)
Sec. 40-68. Scope of inspections of buildings and premises.
Inspection shall be made for the purpose of reporting and correcting the
following special hazards pertaining to buildings and other occupancies:
(1)   lack of repairs.
(2)   age and dilapidated condition.
(3)   faulty or unapproved construction.
(4)   lack of sufficient fire escapes or means of egress.
(5)   lack of automatic or other reliable fire alarm apparatus.
(6)   lack of fire extinguishing equipment.
(7)   materials and buildings especially susceptible to fire.
(8)   conditions endangering property or occupants.
(9)   any and all other fire hazards dangerous to life or property.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-9)
Sec. 40-69. Order to eliminate hazards.
Whenever the Fire Chief or any member of the fire department shall find in any
building, or upon the premises or other place, combustible or explosive matters
or dangerous accumulations of waste paper, boxes or highly inflammable
substance, especially liable to fire, and which is so situated as to endanger
property, or shall find violations of this chapter or this Code, he shall order
the same remedied or removed within the specified time. This order shall be
complied with by the owner or occupant of such premises or buildings within the
time specified, subject to review by the Fire Chief upon request by the owner
or occupant within this time limit.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-10)
Sec. 40-70. Review of order to eliminate hazard.
(a)   The Fire Chief may review the order referred to in Section 40-69, but
such order shall remain in force and be complied with unless revoked or
modified by the Fire Chief within 24 hours from the time of requesting the
review.
(b)   Within three days after the making or affirming of such order by the Fire
Chief, the owner or occupant affected may file his petition with the City
Manager, praying a review of such order. The City Manager may review such order
and make such decision on the premises as right and justice demand. Any owner
or occupant failing to comply with such order within the time specified by such
order shall be liable to the penalties of Section 1-4 of this Code.
(Code 1943, Art. 20-11)
Secs. 40-71 - 40-80. Reserved.
Article V.
Fire Alarms
Sec. 40-81. Purpose and scope
a. The purpose of this article is to:
   1. Encourage alarm users and alarm companies to properly maintain the
operational effectiveness and proper utilization of alarm systems intended to
summon the fire department; and,
   2. Protect the emergency services of the city by reducing or eliminating
false alarms or preventable alarms which may unduly divert fire department
personnel from responding to active EMS calls, structure fires, vehicle fires,
or any other calls that require the response and services provided by the fire
department; and,
   3. Defray the costs of administering this article through alarm permit fees
and false alarm charges.
b. The provisions of this article shall apply only to alarm systems intended to
summon the fire department and which:
   1. Send an alarm signal or alarm message directly to the public safety
answering point; or
   2. Send an alarm signal or alarm message to a location where the alarm
system is monitored and an alarm signal or alarm message is relayed to the
public safety answering point; or
   3. Emits an audible or visual alarm signal that can be heard or seen on the
exterior of the premises.
c. An alarm user required by federal or state statute, regulation or rule, to
install, maintain and operate an alarm system is subject to this article and
payment of the same fees and fines.
d. An alarm user that is governmental unit or taxing entity shall not be
subject to the payment of any fees or fines imposed under this article, but
each governmental unit and taxing entity shall be required to obtain an alarm
permit and otherwise comply with this article.
Sec. 40-82. Definitions
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
alarm company: Any person engaged in the full-time or part-time business of
selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing,
moving, installing or monitoring any alarm system or causing to be sold,
leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, moved, installed or
monitored any alarm system in an alarm site.
alarm coordinator: The individual designated by the Fire Chief to administer,
control and review false alarm reduction efforts, issue alarm permits, and
enforce the provisions of this article.
alarm permit: A permit issued by the alarm coordinator pursuant to this
article.
alarm signal: A signal initiated by a device whose activation is indicative of
the presence of a fire or fire signature, including but not limited to a manual
fire alarm box, automatic fire detector, water-flow switch, or other similar
device.
alarm site: A single fixed premise or location having one street address served
by one or more alarm systems. Each tenancy, if served by a separate alarm
system in a multi-tenant building or complex, shall be considered a separate
alarm site.
alarm system: Any assembly of equipment (whether mechanical, electrical,
electronic or any combination thereof) arranged to send an alarm signal and
intended to summon the fire department.
alarm user: Any person who uses or is in control of an alarm system at an alarm
site.
automatic dialing device: An electrical, electronic, mechanical or other device
capable of being programmed to send a pre-recorded message, when activated,
over a telephone line, radio, or other communication system.
calendar year: A period of one year beginning on January 1 and ending at the
end of the day on December 31.
cancellation: The process by which an alarm company providing monitoring
verifies with the alarm user or responsible party that a false dispatch has
occurred and that there is not an existing situation at the alarm site
requiring a fire department response and notifies the fire department prior to
the arrival of the responding fire department personnel.
conversion: The transaction or process by which one alarm company begins
monitoring of a previously unmonitored alarm system or an alarm system
previously monitored by another alarm company.
false alarm: An alarm signal that is received by the public safety answering
point or by any fire department personnel when there is not a situation
requiring a fire department response at the alarm site from which the alarm
signal originated. The term includes, but is not limited to, any event
considered to be a false alarm in Section 40-86 of this article. The term does
not include any event that qualifies as a legitimate alarm under Section 40-86
of this article.
Fire Chief:  The chief of the fire department and any individual designated by
said chief to undertake any of the duties or functions imposed upon the Fire
Chief in this article.
fire department: The City of Longview Fire Department.
individual:  An individual human being.
person: An individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization,
firm, company, or other entity of any nature.
public safety answering point: A communications facility to which the City of
Longview has assigned the responsibility to receive 9-1-1 calls and, as
appropriate, to dispatch fire department services or to extend, transfer, or
relay 9-1-1 calls to appropriate public safety agencies.
takeover: The transaction or process by which an alarm user takes over control
of an existing alarm system which was previously controlled by another alarm
user.
verify: To contact the alarm site by telephonic or other electrical means,
whether or not actual contact with an individual is made, before requesting
fire department response, in an attempt to avoid the unnecessary dispatch and
response of the fire department.
Sec. 40-83. Alarm Permit Requirements
a. It is unlawful for an alarm user to operate, or cause to be operated, an
alarm system at its alarm site without a valid alarm permit issued by the alarm
coordinator. An alarm permit entitles the holder to operate all alarm systems
at an alarm site, provided such operation complies with all applicable law.
b. The alarm user must submit an alarm permit application and alarm permit fee
to the alarm coordinator within five days after a takeover or the installation
of an alarm system and obtain a valid alarm permit prior to the operation of
the alarm system. The alarm user must obtain a separate alarm permit for each
alarm site.
c. The alarm coordinator shall promulgate an alarm permit application. The
alarm permit application may require any information reasonably necessary for
the alarm coordinator to determine whether the alarm system and alarm user
comply with the provisions of this article and all information reasonably
necessary for the alarm coordinator to perform the duties assigned to the alarm
coordinator by this article. Persons making and application for an alarm permit
must provide all of the information as required by the alarm permit
application. The alarm coordinator shall deny or postpone the issuance or
renewal of an alarm permit until all required information is provided.
d. The nonrefundable alarm permit fee will be set by resolution of the City
Council and shall be paid only upon initially obtaining an alarm permit or when
there is a takeover of an existing alarm system. Individuals 65 years of age or
older obtaining an alarm permit for an alarm system operated at the
individual's primary residence are exempt from this fee.
e. An alarm permit cannot be transferred to another person or alarm site.
Persons performing a takeover of an alarm system at an alarm site must submit a
new application and alarm permit fee and obtain a valid alarm permit prior to
operating the alarm system. An alarm permit fee is not required if an alarm
user submits the required alarm permit application to the alarm coordinator
with five days after the takeover and prior to operating the alarm system.
f. An alarm user shall inform the alarm coordinator of any change that alters
any information provided on the alarm user's alarm permit application within
five business days after the occurrence of the change.
Sec. 40-84. Duties of Alarm User
An alarm user shall:
a. Maintain the alarm site and the alarm system in a manner that will minimize
or eliminate false alarms; and
b. Not manually initiate an alarm signal for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm signal was intended to report; and
c. Operate the alarm system only if the alarm system is functioning properly.
If the alarm coordinator determines that false alarms are related to a defect
or malfunction in an alarm system, the alarm coordinator may require the alarm
user to produce a written report from a properly licensed alarm company which
has inspected the alarm system stating the probable cause of the false alarms
and actions taken or recommendations for eliminating the false alarms; and
d. Respond or cause a representative to respond to the alarm site within
fifteen (15) minutes of being notified of alarm activation; and
e. Adjust the mechanism or cause the mechanism to be adjusted so that an alarm
signal audible on the exterior of an alarm site will sound for no longer than
ten (10) minutes; and
f. If an alarm system emits an alarm signal that is audible or visible from the
exterior of a structure, adjust or cause to be adjusted, the alarm system so
that upon activation the alarm system will not transmit another alarm signal
without first being reset; and
g. Not operate an alarm system that uses an automatic dialing device to summon
fire department units; and
h. Maintain at each alarm site a set of written operating instructions for each
alarm system at that alarm site.
Sec. 40-85. Duties of Alarm Company
a. Prior to alarm system activation, every alarm company selling, leasing, or
furnishing to any alarm user an alarm system shall:
   1. Furnish the alarm user with a copy of this article; and
   2. Furnish the alarm user with an application for an alarm permit; and
   3. Provide written instructions explaining how to operate the alarm system
properly; and
   4. Provide written information on how to obtain service for the alarm system
at any time; and
   5. Provide training regarding the proper operation of the alarm system to
the alarm user and to the alarm user's employees or other persons designated by
the alarm user as authorized to operate the alarm system.
b. Before selling, leasing, or furnishing to any alarm user any alarm system at
an alarm site within the city, each alarm company shall, provide to the alarm
coordinator a copy of its state license and the name, address, and phone number
of an individual who will serve as a contact person. If the alarm company has a
local contact person, then the alarm company shall provide the name, address,
and phone number of that local contact person to the alarm coordinator. Within
five business days after the occurrence of any change that alters any
information that the alarm company is required to provide to the alarm
coordinator, the alarm company shall inform the alarm coordinator of the change
and provide the corrected information to the alarm coordinator.
c. An alarm company which begins monitoring a previously unmonitored alarm
system or an alarm system previously monitored by another alarm company must
notify the alarm coordinator of the conversion at least three days prior to the
date of the conversion.
d. An alarm company performing monitoring services shall:
   1. Communicate with the public safety answering point prior to any work or
testing on any alarm system and secure the name of the individual who was
contacted in the public safety answering point; and
   2. Place all alarm system equipment on test status with the alarm company
monitoring the alarm system prior to any work or testing on the alarm system;
and
   3. Communicate to the public safety answering point any available
information about the specific location at the alarm site from which an alarm
signal is originating; and
   4. Endeavor to contact the alarm user or a representative of the alarm user
when an alarm signal is made and notify the public safety answering point of
the time contact was made or the lack thereof, and the intent of the alarm user
or representative to respond or to not respond to the alarm site; and
   5. When an alarm signal is made, furnish the public safety answering point
with the name of the individual contacted as required by this section, the name
of the individual responding on behalf of the alarm user, the estimated time of
said individual's arrival, and a description of the vehicle driven by the said
individual, if applicable.
   6. Not at any time require a pass code when requiring an alarm system to be
placed on test, even with construction or maintenance in place.
e.   The alarm coordinator may appeal to the state fire marshal, the Texas
Department of Insurance, or any other appropriate state agency to suspend or
revoke an alarm company's license for failure to comply with the duties listed
in this section or to take such other disciplinary action as may be within the
authority of said state agency.
Sec. 40-86. False Alarms; Service Fees
a. All alarm signals to which the fire department responds will be
characterized as being either a legitimate alarm or a false alarm after
inspection of the alarm site by the responding fire department units.
b. Each of the following events is considered to be a legitimate alarm and is
not chargeable to the alarm user:
   1. An alarm signal initiated due to proper detection of visible or invisible
evidence of combustion; and
   2. An alarm signal initiated as a result of weather (lightning, high winds,
etc.); and
   3. An alarm signal initiated due to a power outage, surge, or damage to
phone lines; and
   4. An alarm signal initiated as a result of proper functioning flow switch;
and
   5. Proper cancellation prior to the arrival of any fire department personnel
at the location of the alarm site; and
   6. Any other event where it is determined by the alarm coordinator that the
alarm user could not have reasonably prevented the initiation of the alarm
signal.
c. Each of the following events is considered to be a false alarm and is
chargeable to the alarm user:
   1. An alarm signal from a business accidentally initiated by an employee,
owner, cleaning crew or other person legally at the alarm site; and
   2. An alarm signal from a residence accidentally initiated by the homeowner,
occupant, or person who is legally at the residence; and
   3. An alarm signal initiated as a result of improper maintenance or lack of
maintenance; and
   4. The failure of the alarm user, the alarm user's representative, and the
alarm company to accomplish proper cancellation prior to the arrival of any
fire department personnel at the location of the alarm site; and
   5. An alarm signal initiated as a result of a malfunction in the alarm
system; and
   6. An alarm signal initiated where no fire exists and that is caused by any
condition that could reasonably have been prevented by the alarm user.
d. An alarm user shall be subject to service fees and possible suspension of
the alarm permit for an excessive number of false alarms at the alarm site.
   1. No service fee will be charged for the first 4 false alarms occurring in
a calendar year at an alarm site.
   2. Except as provided in Section 40-88 of this article, after the first 4
false alarms at an alarm site in a calendar year, an alarm user shall pay a
service fee for each false alarm occurring at the same alarm site during the
remainder of the calendar year. The amount of said fee will be set by
resolution of the City Council.
   3. Upon the determination that 5 or more false alarms have occurred at an
alarm site in a calendar year, the alarm coordinator shall make written notice
to the alarm user of such fact and of the service fee(s) assessed. The notice
shall also state that the alarm user must either appeal, as provided in Section
40-88 of this article, or pay the assessed service fee(s) within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the notice. Failure to make timely payment of fees shall
result in the alarm permit being revoked.
Sec. 40-87. Alarm Permit Suspension and Revocation; Reinstatement
a. The alarm coordinator may suspend an alarm permit if it is determined that:
   1. The alarm user failed to notify the alarm coordinator of any change that
alters any information listed on the alarm permit application within five
business days, as required by Section 40-83 of this article; or
   2. The alarm user failed on one or more occasions to comply with the
provisions specified in Section 40-84 of this article.
b. The alarm coordinator may revoke an alarm permit if it is determined that:
   1. There is a false statement of a material matter or misrepresentation in
the alarm permit application; or
   2. The holder of the alarm permit has failed to make timely payment of a
service fee assessed under Section 40-86 of this article; or
   3. Following reinstatement of the alarm permit after suspension, there has
been an additional occurrence, in the same calendar year, of the violation(s)
that resulted in the previous suspension of the alarm permit.
c. An alarm permit that has been revoked or suspended may be reinstated if the
alarm user:
   1. Submits an updated, accurate alarm permit application and, if the alarm
permit was revoked, pays a nonrefundable reinstatement fee in the amount set by
resolution of the City Council; and
   2. Pays, or otherwise resolves, all fees and fines assessed under this
article; and
   3. Provides acceptable evidence that the cause(s) of the suspension or
revocation has been remedied. A finding in favor of the alarm user pursuant to
the appeal process provided in Section 40-88 of this article is considered to
be acceptable evidence.
d. An alarm user shall immediately discontinue use of an alarm system upon
being notified of the suspension or revocation of an alarm permit. It is
unlawful for an alarm user to continue use of an alarm system after notice of
suspension or revocation of the alarm permit.
Sec. 40-88. Appeals
a. An alarm user may appeal a false alarm determination and/or assessment of a
service fee by filing a written notice of appeal to the alarm coordinator
within five business days of receipt of the notice that a service fee(s) has
been assessed.
   1. The notice of appeal must state the date of the alarm being disputed and
the reasons why the alarm user believes the false alarm determination to be
incorrect.
   2. The alarm coordinator will make a determination in writing within five
business days of receipt of the notice of appeal.
   3. The determination of the alarm coordinator may be appealed to the Fire
Chief if the appeal is made in writing within five (5) business days of receipt
of the alarm coordinator's findings. If the Fire Chief determines that 5 or
more false alarms have occurred during the calendar year at the alarm site, the
alarm permit shall be revoked unless the false alarm fee(s) are paid. The
decision of the Fire Chief is final.
b. Except for revocations following an appeal as provided in subsection a of
this section, an alarm user may appeal the suspension or revocation of an alarm
permit to the Fire Chief by filing a written request for a hearing within ten
(10) days of receipt of the notification of the suspension or revocation of the
alarm permit.
   1. If a hearing before the Fire Chief is requested, the alarm coordinator
shall notify the alarm user by certified mail of the time and place of the
hearing at least five (5) days prior to the hearing date. The hearing date
shall not be less than ten (10) days after the filing of the request for a
hearing.
   2. At the hearing, the alarm user may present written and oral evidence as
to the reasons the alarm permit should not be suspended or revoked. The formal
rules of evidence do not apply at an appeal hearing.
   3. The Fire Chief shall make a decision to uphold or overturn the suspension
or revocation based upon a preponderance of the evidence presented at the
hearing. If the suspension or revocation is upheld, the alarm user may apply
for reinstatement of the alarm permit as provided for under Section 40-87 of
this article.
c. Except for any matter properly appealed under subsection a or b of this
section, all administrative actions may be appealed to the City Manager or the
City Manager's designated representative(s) by giving written notice of such
appeal to the City Manager's office within ten (10) days of the action being
appealed. The decision of the City Manager or representative(s) shall be final.
Sec. 40-89. Violation; Fine
a. A person commits an offense if the person intentionally, knowingly,
recklessly, or with criminal negligence operates or causes to be operated, an
alarm system at an alarm site without a valid alarm permit.
b. A person who commits an offense under this section is punishable by a fine
not to exceed $500.00.
c. For the purposes of this article, an alarm signal shall be prima facie
evidence that the alarm user operated an alarm system at an alarm site.
(Ord. No. 3743, § 2, 2-10-11)
Secs. 40-90-40-115. Reserved
Article VI.
Reserved
Sec. 40-116. Reserved.
Sec. 40-117. Reserved.
Sec. 40-118. Reserved.
Sec. 40-119. Reserved.
Sec. 40-120. Reserved.
Secs. 40-121 - 40-130. Reserved.
Article VII.
Reserved
Sec. 40-131. Reserved.
Sec. 40-132. Reserved.
Chapters 41 - 42
Reserved
Chapter 43
Reserved
 
Chapters 44 - 45
Reserved
Chapter 46
Food and Food Establishments
Article I. In General
Sec.
46-1.   Adoption of Texas Food Establishment Rules; exemptions.
Sec.
46-2.   Definitions.
Sec.
46-3.   Permits.
Sec.
46-4.   Application for permit.
Sec.
46-5.   Review of plans.
Sec.
46-6.   Inspections.
Sec.
46-7.   Examination, detention, and condemnation of food.
Sec.
46-8.   Voluntary closure.
Sec.
46-9.   Fees.
Sec.
46-10.   Suspension of permit.
Sec.
46-11.   Revocation of permit.
Sec.
46-12.   Administrative process.
Sec.
46-13.   Enforcement.
Sec.  
46-14.   Risk Control Plans and Training.
Article II. Mobile Food Units
Sec.
46-30.   Title and Purpose.
Sec.
46-31.   Mobile Food Unit Types.
Sec.
46-32.   Vehicle Requirements.
Sec.
46-33.   Mobile Food Unit Operating Requirements.
Sec.
46-34.   Structural Requirements for Unrestricted Mobile Food Units.
Sec.
46-35.   Longview Fire Department Requirements.
Article I.
In General
Sec. 46-1.   Adoption of Texas Food Establishment Rules; exemptions.
(a)   Texas Food Establishment Rules adopted. The city adopts by reference the
provisions of the rules found in 25 Texas Administrative Code, Chapter 229,
Sections 161 through 171 and 173 through 175 regarding the regulation of food
establishments in this jurisdiction, as said rules currently exist and as they
may hereafter be amended by the Texas Board of Health. Said rules are
incorporated into this article and for all purposes made a part hereof.
(b)   Conflicts. In the event of any conflict between the provisions adopted in
subsection (a) of this section and the other provisions of this article, the
other provisions of this article shall prevail.
(c)   Exemptions. Food establishments owned by a county of the state or located
in a facility owned by a county in the state shall be exempt from the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01; Ord. No. 3093, § 2, 1-10-02)
Sec. 46-2.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Authorized agent or employee. The employees of the regulatory authority.
   Food establishment. A food service establishment, a retail food store, a
temporary food establishment, a mobile food unit, and/or a roadside food vendor
as defined in Texas Food Establishment Rules Section 229.162(33) and, in
addition, shall include produce vendors and produce markets that sell only
fresh, whole, intact fruits or vegetables other than farmers that sell fresh,
whole, intact fruits or vegetables from the farm where the produce is grown.
The term “food establishment” shall not include a nursing facility/home.
   Municipality of _______. Shall be understood to refer to the city.
   Nursing facility/home. An institution that provides organized and structured
nursing care and service and is subject to licensure under Texas Health and
Safety Code Chapter 242.
   Regulatory authority. The Division of Environmental Health of the city or
the entity that succeeds to the duties of that division.
   State rules. The state rules found at 25 Texas Administrative Code, Chapter
229, Sections 161 through 171 and Sections 173 through 175, as amended. These
rules are also known as the Texas Food Establishment Rules.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01; Ord. No. 3183, § 2, 2-13-03)
Sec. 46-3.   Permits.
(a)   Permit authorized and required. The regulatory authority is hereby
authorized to issue permits for the operation of food establishments; provided
that only a person or firm that complies with the requirements of this article
shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit. A person may not operate
a food establishment in the city without a valid permit issued by the
regulatory authority. A valid permit must be posted in public view on or in
every food establishment. A permit that has been revoked, that has expired, or
that has lapsed for any reason is not valid. A suspended permit is not valid
during the period of suspension.
(b)   Catering permit. Any person desiring to cater food prepared at a
permitted food establishment and served from an off-site location, or at a
public or private event within the city must possess a city catering permit.
Applicant must make written application on a form provided by the regulatory
authority. The application must contain the name and address of each applicant,
the location where food is prepared, types of food served, and methods of
transporting and serving of foods. Food establishments that possess both a city
food establishment permit and catering permit are exempt from the temporary
food service permit fee and need only complete a temporary food service
application prior to any special event in order to obtain a permit. Food
establishments located outside the city must also submit a copy of a valid food
service permit from the regulatory authority with jurisdiction over this
location and a copy of the most recent food service inspection report. A city
catering permit may be denied, revoked, or suspended if the establishment is
not in compliance with all applicable food service requirements.
(c)   Permits not transferrable. Permits are not transferrable from one person
to another or from one location to another location, except as otherwise
permitted by this article.
(d)   Multiple operations in single location. If more than one food
establishment is conducted in a single building or at the same address, then a
separate permit shall be required for each such food establishment, regardless
of whether each such food establishment is owned by the same person or by
different persons.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-4.   Application for permit.
Any person desiring to operate a food establishment must make a written
application for a permit on forms provided by the regulatory authority. The
application must contain the name and address of each applicant, the location
and type of the proposed food establishment and the applicable fee. An
incomplete application will not be accepted. Failure to provide all required
information, or falsifying information required may result in denial or
revocation of the permit. Renewals of permits are required on an annual basis
and the same information is required for a renewal permit as for an initial
permit.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-5.   Review of plans.
(a)   Review of plans. Whenever a food establishment is established,
constructed or extensively remodeled, and whenever an existing structure is
converted to use as a food establishment, properly prepared plans and
specifications for such establishment, construction, remodeling or conversion
shall be submitted to the regulatory authority for review before work is begun.
A food establishment is “extensively remodeled” when (1) 50% or greater of the
square footage within the food preparation area is to be remodeled or (2) a
building permit is required for work done within the food preparation area. The
plans and specifications shall indicate the proposed layout, equipment
arrangement, mechanical plans and construction of materials of work areas, and
the type and model of proposed fixed equipment and facilities. The plans and
specifications will be approved by the regulatory authority if they meet the
requirements of this article. The establishment, construction, remodeling or
conversion must be according to the approved plans and specifications.
(b)   Inspection. Whenever plans and specifications are required to be
submitted to the regulatory authority, the regulatory authority shall inspect
the food establishment to determine compliance with the approved plans and
specifications and with the requirements of this article.
(c)   Effect of noncompliance. Failure to follow the approved plans and
specifications or to obtain the necessary approval will result in a permit
denial, suspension, or revocation in accordance with the provisions of this
article. The regulatory authority may also suspend or revoke a permit in
accordance with this article if a food establishment that is required to be
inspected under this section begins operations before passing said inspection.
Suspension, revocation, or denial of a permit or of permit renewal shall not
preclude the regulatory authority from taking any other enforcement action
authorized by this article or by other law.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-6.   Inspections.
(a)   Permit inspections. Prior to the issuance of a permit, the regulatory
authority shall inspect the food establishment or proposed food establishment
to determine compliance with this article.
(b)   Additional inspections. Additional inspections shall be performed as
often as necessary for the enforcement of this article. The regulatory
authority shall determine the frequency of inspections to be made under this
article in accordance with the criteria set forth in the Texas Food
Establishment Rules.
(c)   Inspection based on complaint. In addition to any other authority granted
by this article, the regulatory authority shall have the authority to inspect a
food establishment based on complaints or other credible information indicating
the possibility of a violation of this article.
(d)   Access. The authority of the regulatory authority to inspect a food
establishment includes, without limitation, the right to access to any and all
parts of the food establishment and the right to view and copy any or all of
the records relating to the purchase, sale, or handling of food.
(e)   Posting. The results of the most recent inspection by the regulatory
authority (including without limitation the letter grade, score, or ranking
assigned to the food establishment by the regulatory authority) must be posted
in public view on or in every food establishment.
(f)   Maintaining inspection reports. Copies of all food service inspection
reports including any and all notices of violations issued within the previous
12 months must be maintained on premises and be made available for review by
the regulatory authority upon request.
(g)   Effect of noncompliance. A food establishment that does not comply with
this article will be denied a permit or the renewal of a permit or may have its
permit revoked or suspended in accordance with the provisions of this article.
Suspension, revocation, or denial of a permit or of permit renewal shall not
preclude the regulatory authority from taking any other enforcement action
authorized by this article or by other law.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-7.   Examination, detention, and condemnation of food.
(a)   Examination of food. Food may be examined or sampled by the regulatory
authority as often as necessary for the enforcement of this article, including
without limitation, in conjunction with an inspection conducted under the
authority of this article.
(b)   Issuance of detention order. The regulatory authority may place a
detention order on any food which the regulatory authority believes is in
violation of any provision of this article. The detention order is effective
upon the service of written notice to the permit holder for the food
establishment at which the food is located or to the person in charge of the
food.
(c)   Notice. The written notice of a detention order must specify the reasons
for the detention order. The notice must also state that a request for hearing
may be filed within ten days and that if no hearing is requested, the food
shall be destroyed. The regulatory authority shall tag, label or otherwise
identify any food subject to the detention order. The tag, label, or other
identification placed on the food by the regulatory authority must not be
removed until and unless the detention order is lifted or vacated or the food
is destroyed as directed by the regulatory authority.
(d)   Effect of detention order. No food subject to a detention order shall be
used, served or removed from the food establishment unless the regulatory
authority gives permission to destroy the food and the food is destroyed as
directed by the regulatory authority. The regulatory authority shall permit
storage of the food under conditions specified in the detention order, unless
storage is not possible without risk to the public health, in which case
immediate destruction shall be ordered and accomplished.
(e)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held if the hearing is requested within ten
days from the date on which the required notice of the detention order is
served. On the basis of evidence produced at the hearing, the detention order
may be vacated or the permit holder or person in charge of the food may be
directed by written order to denature or destroy such food or to bring it into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-8.   Voluntary closure.
If a food establishment closes due to potential health risk and the closure was
not ordered by the regulatory authority, the manager of or permit holder for
the food establishment shall immediately notify the regulatory authority of the
closure and of the reasons for the closure. Any food establishment closed due
to potential health risk shall not reopen until authorized to do so by the
regulatory authority.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-9.   Fees.
(a)   Fee for review of plans. Preceding the review of any plans under Section
46-5 of this Code, the person operating (or who will be operating) a food
establishment shall pay to the city a fee for said review in the amount set by
resolution of the City Council.
(b)   Annual permit fee. In addition to any fee due under subsection (a) of
this section, any person operating a food service establishment shall pay a
permit fee which shall extend to December 31 of the year issued. Said permit
fee may be prorated. If a permit for a permanent food service establishment is
not renewed prior to December 31 each year, a late penalty shall be added to
the annual permit fee and said late fee must be paid before the permit is
reinstated. The annual permit fees and any exemptions thereto shall be as set
by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01; Ord No. 3600, §2, 9-11-08)
Sec. 46-10.   Suspension of permit.
(a)   Suspension of permit. The regulatory authority may, without warning,
advance notice, or hearing, suspend any permit to operate a food establishment
if the operation of the food establishment constitutes an imminent hazard to
public health or if any required fee has not been paid by the appropriate
deadline. Suspension is effective immediately upon service of the notice
required by this section. When a permit is suspended, food operations shall
immediately cease. Whenever a permit is suspended, the holder of the permit
shall be afforded an opportunity for a hearing within 20 days of receipt of a
request for a hearing.
(b)   Notice. Whenever a permit is suspended, the holder of the permit or the
person in charge shall be notified in writing that the permit is, upon service
of the notice, immediately suspended and that an opportunity for a hearing will
be provided if a written request for a hearing is filed with the regulatory
authority by the holder of the permit within ten days. If no written request
for hearing is filed within ten days, the suspension is sustained.
(c)   Duration. Suspension of a food permit shall continue until the regulatory
authority determines, after an inspection, that the reasons for suspension no
longer exist or until all required permit fees have been paid, as applicable.
(d)   Other remedies reserved. Suspension of a food permit shall not preclude
the regulatory authority from taking any other enforcement action authorized by
law, including without limitation the revocation of the suspended food permit
in accordance with the requirements of Section 46-11 of this Code.
(e)   Posting. During the period of any permit suspension under this section,
the food service establishment subject to the suspension shall post a sign
clearly visible to the public outside of the establishment, which sign shall
state, “Closed by the Environmental Health Division of the City of Longview.”
The regulatory authority shall have the authority to promulgate reasonable
regulations as to the size and location of the sign and the size of the
lettering thereon.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-11.   Revocation of permit.
(a)   Revocation of permit. The regulatory authority may, after providing
opportunity for a hearing, revoke a permit for repeated or serious violations
of any of the requirements of this article (including, without limitation, the
failure to pay any required fees) or for interference with the regulatory
authority in the performance of its duties.
(b)   Notice and hearing. Prior to revocation, the regulatory authority shall
notify the holder of the permit or the person in charge, in writing, of the
reason for which the permit is subject to revocation and that the permit shall
be revoked at the end of the ten days following service of such notice unless a
written request for a hearing is filed with the regulatory authority by the
holder of the permit within such ten-day period. If no request for hearing is
filed within the ten-day period, the revocation of the permit becomes final.
(c)   Other remedies reserved. Revocation of a food permit shall not preclude
the regulatory authority from taking any other enforcement action authorized by
law, including without limitation the enforcement of any criminal penalty
authorized by this Code.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-12.   Administrative process.
(a)   Service of notice. A notice as required in this article is properly
served when it is delivered to the holder of the permit or the person in
charge, or when it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the last known address of the holder of the permit. A copy of the
notice shall be filed in the records of the regulatory authority.
(b)   Conduct of hearings. The hearings provided for in this article shall be
conducted by the regulatory authority at a time and place designated by it.
Based upon the recorded evidence of such hearing, the regulatory authority
shall make final findings, and shall sustain, modify or rescind any notice or
order considered in the hearing. A written report of the hearing decision shall
be furnished to the holder of the permit by the regulatory authority.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-13.   Enforcement.
(a)   Criminal penalty. Any person who violates a provision of this article and
any person who is the permit holder of or otherwise operates a food service
establishment that does not comply with the requirements of this article and
any responsible officer of that permit holder or those persons shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as provided in Section
1-4 of this Code.
(b)   Interference with posting. A person commits an offense if the person
removes, defaces, or makes illegible a posting or any part of a posting
required by the regulatory authority under the authority of Section 46-10 and
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine as
provided in Section 1-4 of this Code.
(c)   Injunction authorized. The regulatory authority may seek to enjoin
violations of this article.
(d)   Other remedies reserved. The imposition of a criminal penalty or
injunction in accordance with this section shall not preclude the regulatory
authority from taking any other enforcement action authorized by law, including
without limitation the revocation or suspension of a food permit in accordance
with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 3051, § 3, 8-9-01)
Sec. 46-14.   Risk Control Plans and Training.
(a)   All management and supervisory staff of any food establishment permitted
by the City of Longview receiving an inspection score of "C" or lower, shall be
required to attend a risk control meeting with representatives of the City of
Longview Environmental Health Division at a time and date established by the
mananger of the City of Longview Environmental Health Division.
(b)   Subsequent to the risk control meeting described in subsection (a), all
management, supervisory staff, and employees of the food establishment shall
attend a food service risk control class conducted by the City of Longview
Environmental Health Division, at a time, date, and location established by the
manager of the Environmental Health Division. The food establishment must be
closed to customers during the time the class is conducted. A fee for said
class shall be established by seperate resolution.
(Ord. No. 4172, § 2, 8-9-18)
"ARTICLE II: MOBILE FOOD UNITS"
Sec. 46-30.   Title and Purpose.
(a)   The article may be know and cited as "Mobile Food Units."
(b)   The purpose of this article is to protect the welfare of the citizens of
the City of Longview by registering, regulating, establishing rules for mobile
food units, and monitoring mobile food units in an effort to maintain a safe
and wholesome food supply for the citizens of Longview. To this end, this
article establishes a registration program for mobile food units, imposes rules
regulating mobile food unit businesses, and imposes a means to monitor mobile
food units to insure compliance with this Chapter.
(Ord. No. 4036 § 2, 2-11-16)
Sec. 46-31.   Mobile Food Unit Types.
(a)   Mobile Food Unit defined: A Mobile Food Unit shall be defined herein as a
unit designed to be readily movable and from which food or beverage are
prepared and offered for sale.
(b)   In addition to the requirements adopted in Article I of this chapter,
requirements contained in this section govern mobile food units.
(c)   Categories of mobile food units. Mobile food units in the city are
divided into one of the following categories:
   (1)   Unrestricted Mobile Food Unit. An unrestricted mobile food unit is
defined as a commercially-manufactured towed trailer or motorized self-
contained food service operation or establishment designed to be readily
movable in which ready-to-eat food is cooked, wrapped, packaged, processed, or
portioned for service, sale or distribution.
   (2)   Restricted Mobile Food Unit. A restricted mobile food unit is defined
as a commercially-manufactured towed trailer, or motorized self-contained food
service operation or establishment designed to be readily movable in which only
food that is prewrapped, bottled, or otherwise packaged in individual servings
as sold. Under this type of permit, no open food preparation or handling may
occur. All food items including beverages and condiments must be prepackaged at
an approved food establishment or come prepackaged from an approved source.
This type of unit is not required to have sinks.
   (3)   Limited Service Mobile Food Unit. Any mobile food unit that is not a
Restricted or Unrestricted Mobile Food Unit is classified as a limited service
mobile food unit. This type of mobile unit, with limited food handling, sells
only packaged food from ingredients with a low potential for creating a food-
borne hazard. The term includes the following types of mobile food vending
operations:
      (i)   Ice Cream Trucks or Push Carts serving packaged, frozen treats.
These units are only allowed to drive through neighborhoods and stop for only a
brief period of time to serve their product.
      (ii)   Mobile Vending Food Units selling whole fruits and raw vegetables.
These units are only allowed to drive through neighborhoods and stop for only a
brief period of time to serve their product.
      (iii)   Trucks selling packed frozen steaks, chicken, seafood and frozen
foods. These units can only sell their products door-to-door, and are limited
to neighborhoods and local businesses.
      (iv)   Mobile Food Units that set up at monthly permitted events such as
at Longview Trade Days.
(Ord. No. 4036 § 2, 2-11-16)
Sec. 46-32.   Vehicle Requirements.
(a)   A mobile food unit shall:
   (1)   Maintain the vehicle in a clean, undamaged condition, both inside and
outside, and in good working order.
   (2)   Keep all required permits or copies of permits on the vehicle or
Mobile Food Unit at all times.
   (3)   Display on the vehicle current license plates and current vehicle
safety inspection information in accordance with the current State Law.
   (4)   Display on the vehicle's right front windshield, the appropriate decal
issued by the City of Longview showing that the Mobile Food Unit is permitted
to operate within city limits.
   (5)   Keep a copy of the Texas Sales and Use Tax Permit on the vehicle at
all times.
   (6)   Only serve or distribute food as specified on the permit issued by the
City of Longview Environmental Health Division.
(b)   Ice used in a beverage served by an unrestricted mobile food unit must
be:
   (1)   From an approved source.
(c)   Ice used to keep food cold must be drained into the mobile food unit's
liquid waste retention tank and properly disposed of at the designated Central
Peparation Facility or Commissary.
(d)   CENTRAL PREPARATION FACILITY/COMMISSARY:
   Permitted Limited Service Mobile Food Units with commissaries outside the
City Limits of Longview and under the jurisdiction of another health authority
may operate within Longview.
   Permitted Restricted Mobile Food Units with commissaries outside the City
Limits of Longview and under the jurisdiction of another health authority may
operate within industrially zoned areas of the City of Longview.
   Permitted Unrestricted Mobile Food Units must work with a Central
Preparation Facility of Commissary within the City Limits of Longview and under
the jurisdiction of the City of Longview Environmental Health Department.
   (1)   Supplies, cleaning and servicing operations. A mobile food unit must
operate from a central preparation facility, commissary, or other fixed food
establishment and must report to that location for supplies, cleaning and
servicing once daily.
   (2)   The central preparation facility, commissary, or other fixed food
service establishment, used as a base of operation for a mobile food unit, must
be constructed and operated in compliance with this Chapter.
   (3)   The servicing area must include overhead protection for any supplying,
cleaning, or servicing operation; a location for the flushing and draining of
liquid waste separate from the location provided for water service and the
loading and unloading of food and related supplies; and a surface constructed
of a smooth nonabsorbent material, including but not limited to concrete or
machine-laid asphalt, that is maintained in good repair, kept clean, and graded
to drain.
   (4)   Servicing Methods and Equipment: Potable water servicing equipment
must be installed according to all applicable city ordinance and state and
federal law, and stored and handled in a way that protects the water and
equipment from contamination.
      (i)   The liquid waste retention tank for a mobile food unit must be
thoroughly flushed and drained during the servicing operation.
      (ii)   All liquid waste must be discharged to a sanitary sewerage
disposal system constructed and operated according to all appicable city
ordinances and state and federal law.
      (iii)   Liquid waste may not be discharged from a Mobile Food Unit while
the Mobile Food Unit is motion.
   (5)   Site Cleanup: A service site must be left in a clean, waste-free
condition.
   (6)   Food Preparation and Services: Food may not be prepared or served
while the mobile food unit is in motion or in an area that exposes any person
present to a health or safety hazard.
   (7)   A Mobile Food Unit may not serve, sell, or distribute any food or
beverage if the food central preparation facility or commissary does not
supply, clean, or service the mobile food unit in accordance with this section.
(Ord. No. 4036 § 2, 2-11-16; Ord No. 4084 § 2, 12-8-16; Ord. No. 4305 § 2, 4-
22-21)
Sec. 46-33.   Mobile Food Unit Operating Requirements.
(a)   Any person operating a motor vehicle as a mobile food unit must have at
least one person who is a currently licensed driver with a valid Texas driver's
license with the vehicle at all times.
(b)   Garbage storage containers must be maintained on each mobile food unit in
a number sufficient to contain all trash and garbage generated by the unit.
Every container must have a tight-fitting lid. Before the mobile food unit
leaves a vending site, all trash and garbage must be removed from the site.
Excessive trash and garbage may not be allowed to accumulate inside or around
the mobile food unit. All trash and garbage must be disposed of in an approved
garbage recpetable.
(c)   A mobile food unit must comply with the City of Longview Zoning
Requirements governing mobile food units. Each mobile food unit shall:
   (1)   operate in approved areas with appropriate zoning designation;
   (2)   operate with approved permits;
   (3)   may not sell or serve food on any public street, sidewalk, or other
public right-of-way without appropriate permits from the City of Longview;
   (4)   park only on improved surfaces to sell or serve food;
   (5)   operate according to approved itinerary;
   (6)   when out of service be parked at the approved central preparation
facility; commissary or other location in compliance with city ordinance and/or
state and federal law.
(d)   A mobile food unit must have written authorization from the owner or
person in control of each premise from which the mobile food unit will sell or
serve food. The authorization must include the specific dates and times during
which the unit is authorized to be present on the premise. A current copy of
each authorization must be maintained on file with the City of Longview
Environmental Health Division as well as in the mobile food unit files for
review by inspectors.
(e)   A separate written agreement granting permission for the mobile food unit
employees to access the toilet facilities must be obtained from the owner or
person in control of the facilities. Toilet Facility Agreements are required if
the mobile food unit will be at the same location for more than two (2) hours.
A current copy of each authorization must be maintained on file with the City
of Longview Environmental Health Division as well as in the mobile food unit
files for review by inspectors.
(f)   A mobile food unit must have a copy of the approved daily vending
itinerary on the unit. The Environmental Health Division must be advised of any
itinerary changes 48 hours prior to any planned changes and in emergency
situation, the mobile food unit operator must communicate with the
Environmental Health Division as soon as practicably possible (inclement
weather, mechanical problems, ets.). Schedules/stops must be accurate to within
30 minutes. The name, address and telephone number of the owner or person in
control of the premise must be noted on the itinerary. The itinerary should
also include a description of the food to be sold or served at each premise.
(g)   No cooking may be conducted while the vehicle is in motion.
(h)   Covers with secure latches for deep fryers, steam tables and similar
equipment must be provided and installed while the vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. No. 4036 § 2, 2-11-16; Ord. No. 4305 § 2, 4-22-21)
Sec. 46-34.   Structural Requirements for Unrestricted Mobile Food Units.
(a)   Unrestricted mobile food units must have a potable water system under
pressure that is equipped with a permanently installed water supply tank of
sufficient capacity to furnish enough hot and cold water for food preparation,
utensil cleaning and sanitizing, and handwashing.
(b)   The water supply tank must have a minimum capacity of 30 gallons and be
equipped with a water inlet that is located where it will not be contaminated
by waste discharge, road dust, oil or grease.
(c)   The connection size/type must prevent its use for any other service.
(d)   The system must be constructed and installed in accordance with the Rules
on Food Service Sanitation, as adopted and amended by the Texas Department of
State Health Service, which include the National Sanitation Foundation
standards, Underwriter Laboratory standards, and equivalent standards.
(e)   In lieu of the potable water system under pressure, a mobile food unit
may have a gravity fed system with a mixing faucet if the water tanks are
vented for escape or intake of air of sufficient volume to allow for water flow
and the vent openings are protected; if they have a smooth interior with no
recesses and crevices and if they have a combined water capacity of not less
than five gallons.
(f)   For a MFU is equipped with a propane tank, it shall be installed in
accordance with applicable Longview Fire Department regulations and permits.
(g)   For a MFU is equipped with a water heater, the water heater must be
capable of heating water to at least 110 degrees Fahrenheit, and any tank of
the water heater must have a minimum capacity of three gallons and provide a
minimum water pressure of one gallon per minute.
(h)   If liquid waste results from the operation of a mobile food unit, it must
have a liquid waste retention system that is equipped with a permanently
installed retention tank of at least 15 percent larger capacity than the
potable water supply tank, is equipped with servicing connections that are
located lower than the water inlet to prevent contamination of the potable
water system and are of a different size or type than the connection used for
supplying potable water to the unit and is properly sloped to drain and collect
all potential liquid waste.
(i)   Floors must be constructed of durable, easily cleanable material,
including, but not limited to anodized aluminum, stainless steel, or tile. All
junctures must be properly sealed. All service lines and pipes must be
installed off the floor to allow for easy cleaning.
(j)   Walls must be durable, easily cleanable, non-absorbent, and light in
color. Minimum wall covering materials include, but are not limited to aluminum
or fiberglass-reinforced paneling. Walls at vent hood and grill areas must be
covered with stainless steel panels. Wall covering must be installed to cover
the entire height of each wall. Studs and utility lines may not be
unnecessarily exposed on the wall or prevent cleaning.
(k)   Ceiling must be light in color, non-absorbent, and easily cleanable. The
height over the aisle-way portion of the vehicle must be at least 74 inches and
unobstructed. Joists and rafters may not be exposed.
(l)   The cab of the vehicle must be physically separated from the food
preparation area, and the seats designated for the cook and any passengers must
be located outside of the food preparation area. Aisle space must be
unobstructed and at least 30 inches wide.
(m)   Construction joints must be tightly fitted and sealed with no gaps or
voids, and all sealant, solder, and weld joints located in the food contact
areas must be smooth and approved for food contact surfaces.
(n)   All equipment and utensils must meet or exceed the standards published by
the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF).
(o)   All equipment must be placed, installed, stored, and secured on the unit
in a manner that allows for thorough cleaning and sanitizing around the
equipment and prevents movement of the equipment when the unit is in motion.
Counter-mounted equipment must be sealed direclty to the countertop or securely
installed to provide a four-inch clearance under the equipment. Floor-mounted
equipment must be sealed directly to the floor or securely installed to provide
a six-inch clearance under the equipment.
(p)   The unit must be equipped with a stainless steel, three-compartment sink.
Compartments shall be large enough to accommodate immersion of the largest
piece of equipment or utensil. The sink must be equipped with a mixing faucet
with a swivel spigot capable of servicing all sink compartments; and have an
integral stainless steel drain-board at least 12 inches long, which must be
installed with a minimum one-half inch top or rim to prevent the draining
liquid from spilling onto the floor.
(q)   The unit must be equipped with a hand-sink that must be fully accessible
and separated from the ware-washing by a splashguard. Handwashing sinks are
required to have a soap and paper towel dispenser in close proximity. The sink
must be located in an area that is fully accessible and at counter level, is
separated from the ware-washing sink by a metal splashguard at least six inches
high.
(r)   Outer openings of the unit, including but not limited to service windows,
doors, pop-up vents, and sunroofs, must be insect and rodent proof. Screens
must be tightly fitted and in good repair, with a maximum of 16 mesh per square
inch. Entrance doors and service windows to the food preparation area must be
self-closing and must be kept closed when not in use, unless screened.
(s)   The unit must be equipped with a power source, approved by the City of
Longview that is capable of handling the power demands of the unit and
equipment when the unit is stopped or in motion. The power source must be
permanently installed in an area that is completely separated from food
preparation and food storage areas and must be accessible for proper cleaning
and maintenance.
(t)   Light bulbs and tubes must be covered and completely enclosed in plastic
safety shields or the equivalent.
(Ord. No. 4036 § 2, 2-11-16; Ord. No. 4305 § 2, 4-22-21)
Sec. 46-35.   Longview Fire Department Requirements.
(a)   A valid inovice from a Certified Master Plumber indicating an annual
pressure/gas test has been successfully completed. This will be required for
initial permitting in addition to ongoing permit renewal.
(b)   Liquified Petroleum Gas (hereinafter LPG) piping shall be of an approved,
labeled and listed type for use with the cooking appliances. Rubber type hoses
shall not be allowed. All poping shal be in accordance with the most recently
published National Fire Protection Association 58 and shall be protected
against physical damage.
(c)   Food Truck-Maximum of 200 gallons LPG located within a vented
compartment: containers shall not be ahead of the front axle or beyond the real
bumper of the vehicle. An ASME tank is required for permanently installed
tanks.
(d)   Food Trailer-Maximum of 200 gallons LPG located outside, but mounted upon
the trailer in a protected location; containers shall not extend beyond the
rear bumper.
(e)   LPG cylinders shall not exceed 100 pounds.
(f)   LPG cylinders shall have an approved label and listed shut-off valve.
(g)   All LPG cylinders shall be protected from damage and secured with a solid
bracket.
(h)   The storage of LPG cylinders inside trucks and/or trailers is prohibited.
(i)   All valves must be turned off when appliances/cylinders are not in use.
(j)   "No Smoking" signs shall be posted. Additionally, the signage should be
visible near any propane containers.
(k)   Electrical:
   (1)   Extension cords shall not be utilized, nor are they a substitute for
permanent wiring.
   (2)   An appropriate sized power supply cord with corresponding connections
will be allowed. The cord will be sized according to the vehicles electrical
demands.
   (3)   Appliances shall be plugged directly into electrical outlets.
   (4)   All electrical outlets within six feet of a wet location shall be
Ground Fault Circuit Interrupter (hereinafter GFCI) protected. All exterior
outlets shall be GFCI protected.
(l)   Fire Extinguishers:
   (1)   All fire extinguishers require an annual inspection by a Texas
licensed fire extinguisher company. Required extinguishers must be properly
mounted and readily accessible.
   (2)   At least one portable extinguisher of the 2A10BC rating shall be
accessible to the interior of the food truck/trailer.
   (3)   Units utilizing oil/grease fryers are required to have a Class K fire
extinguisher on the unit.
(m)   Fire Suppression System:
   (1)   Mobile Food Units which perform cooking operations that produce grease
laden vapors shall be provided with a Type 1 hood with ventilation.
   (2)   Type 1 hoods shall be protected by a UL 3200 or UL 300A fixed fire
extinguishing system.
   (3)   A biannual system inspection is required for all fire suppression
systems by a Texas licensed fire suppression company.
   (4)   All cooking surfaces and hoods are to be kept clean to prevent grease
build-up.
(n)   Cooking Equipment and Appliances:
   (1)   All cooking appliances shall be of an approved type, listed and
labeled for the intended use. Propane appliance can be approved by the
following testing labs: UL, CSA, CGA, AGA and/or ETL.
   (2)   Cooking appliances shall have an approved, labeled and listed on-off
valve.
   (3)   All appliances shall be installed according to the manufacturers
instructions.
   (4)   Water heaters or hot water tanks shall be installed in accordance with
the International Plumbing Code and manufacturer's installing instructions and
shall include venting of the tank.
(o)   Fire Lanes and Fire Access and Drive Ways:
   Mobile Food Units shall not park in marked file lanes. They shall not block
fire department access or drive ways that serve as access.
(p)   Prohibited Cooking:
   (1)   Solid fuel cooking is prohibited with the exception: The cooking
device is listed and approved for mobile food cooking applications.
   (2)   Coleman Stove or equivalents are prohibited.
(Ord. No. 4036 § 2, 2-11-16)
Chapters 47 - 48
Reserved
Chapter 49
Garbage, Trash and Weeds
Article I. In General
Sec.
49-1.   Purpose of chapter.
Sec.
49-2.   Definitions.
Sec.
49-3.   Administrative regulations.
Sec.
49-4.   Reserved.
Sec.
49-5.   Reserved.
Sec.
49-6.   Reserved.
Sec.
49-7.   Residential collection rate.
Sec.
49-8.   Reserved.
Sec.
49-9.   Commercial collection rate.
Sec.
49-10.   Charges for collection and suspension of service; fuel charge.
Sec.
49-11.   Responsibility for charges in apartments served by one water meter.
Sec.
49-12.   Reserved.
Sec.
49-13.   Reserved.
Sec.
49-14.   Reserved.
Sec.
49-15.   Improper disposal of solid waste prohibited.
Sec.
49-16.   Reserved.
Sec.
49-17.   Only city employees to empty garbage cans unless permit issued.
Secs.
49-18 - 49-19.  Reserved.
Sec.
49-20.   Permit required for collection of commercial and industrial solid
waste.
Sec.
49-21.   Application for permit; expiration; permit not transferable.
Sec.
49-22.   Requirement to furnish information.
Sec.
49-23.   Marking of vehicles and containers.
Sec.
49-24.   Revocation of permit.
Sec.
49-25.   Street use fee imposed on solid waste collectors.
Secs.
49-26 - 49-35. Reserved.
Article II. Litter in Public and Private Places
Sec.
49-36.   Definitions.
Sec.
49-37.   Depositing litter - Upon streets; use of receptacles.
Sec.
49-38.   Same - On private property.
Sec.
49-39.   Sweeping of litter generally.
Sec.
49-40.   Throwing litter from vehicles prohibited.
Sec.
49-41.   Loading of vehicles to prevent scattering of litter on streets, etc.
Secs.
49-42 - 49-51. Reserved.
Article III. Abatement and Removal of Junked Vehicles
Sec.
49-52.   In general.
Sec.
49-53.   Evidence of abandonment.
Secs.
49-54 - 49-60. Reserved.
Article IV. Control of Weeds, Junk, and Other Objectionable, Unsightly, or
Unsanitary Matter on Private Premises
Sec.
49-61.   Definitions.
Sec.
49-62.   Overgrown vegetation, rubbish and stagnant water prohibited.
Sec.
49-63.   Duty to comply with article.
Sec.
49-64.   Nuisance declared.
Sec.
49-65.   Notice of violation prior to abatement by city.
Sec.
49-66.   Additional authority to abate dangerous weeds without prior notice.
Sec.
49-67.   Performance of work by city.
Sec.
49-68.   Notice of costs assessed for work performed by city; right of owner to
hearing.
Sec.
49-69.   Lien authorized.
Sec.
49-70.   Penalties.
Article I.
In General
Sec. 49-1. Purpose of chapter.
The accumulation of garbage, rubbish, junk and other deleterious substances on
the premises of private residences, commercial institutions and in streets and
alleys constitutes a public menace and nuisance and greatly increases the
danger of the spread of infectious, contagious and epidemic diseases, and it is
imperative and urgent for the preservation of health, safety, sanitation, peace
and public welfare that proper and adequate regulations be adopted to require
property owners, tenants, occupants or lessees to secure containers and
receptacles of sufficient size and material in which to deposit garbage and
trash for collection and removal at regular intervals.
(Ord. No. 184, § 1, 10-19-52)
Sec. 49-2. Definitions.
The following terms as herein defined shall control in the construction and
enforcement of this Article I:
   Bags. The term “bags” shall mean plastic sacks designed to store refuse and
having sufficient wall strength to maintain physical integrity when lifted by
the top. Thickness shall be no less than two millimeters. Total weight of a bag
and its contents shall not exceed 50 lbs. Bags shall be sealable, having no
punctures, tears, or undesigned openings.
   Bulky waste. The term “bulky waste” shall mean stoves, refrigerators, water
tanks, washing machines, furniture, loose brush, loose tree trimmings, bundles
in excess of three cubic yards or 50 lbs. in weight, and other waste materials
other than construction debris, dead animals, hazardous waste or stable matter
with weights or volumes greater than those allowed for in basic collection, as
the case may be.
   Bundle. The term “bundle” shall mean tree, shrub, and brush trimmings or
papers and magazines securely tied together or boxed in disposable cardboard
forming an easily handled package not exceeding three cubic feet in volume, or
50 lbs. in weight, or four feet in length.
   City.  The term “city” shall mean the City of Longview, Texas.
   Commercial refuse. The term “commercial refuse” shall mean all bulky waste,
garbage, rubbish and stable matter generated by a producer at a commercial
unit.
   Commercial unit. The term “commercial unit” shall mean all premises,
locations, or entities, public or private, requiring refuse collection within
the corporate limits of the city that is not a residential unit, nor an
industrial unit.
   Construction debris. The term “construction debris” shall mean waste
building materials resulting from construction, remodeling, repair or
demolition operations.
   Dead animals. The term “dead animals” shall mean animals or portions thereof
equal to or greater than ten lbs. in weight that have expired from any cause,
except those slaughtered or killed for human use. Animals or portions thereof
that have expired from any cause shall also be so defined, regardless of
weight, when said animal or portion thereof is in the possession of the Gregg
County Humane Society or the city, or when said animal or portion thereof is
found on a public street or thoroughfare.
   Disposal site. The term “disposal site” shall mean a refuse depository,
physically located in the city or in close proximity thereto, including, but
not limited to, the landfill and other sanitary landfills, transfer station,
incinerators, and waste processing/separation centers licensed, permitted or
approved to receive for processing or final disposal of refuse and dead animals
by all governmental bodies and agencies having jurisdiction and requiring such
licenses, permits, or approvals.
   Garbage. The term “garbage” shall mean any and all dead animals of less than
ten lbs. in weight; every accumulation of waste (animal, vegetable and/or other
matter) that results from the preparation, processing (for) consumption,
dealing in, handling, packing, canning, storage, transportation, decay or
decomposition of meats, fish, fowl, birds, fruits, grains, or other animal or
vegetable matter (including, but not by way of limitation, used in tin cans and
decomposable waste animal or vegetable matter which is likely to attract flies
or rodents); except (in all cases) any matter included in the definition of
bulky waste, construction debris, dead animals, hazardous waste, rubbish or
stable matter.
   Handicapped household. The term “handicapped household” shall mean a
residence where occupants are certified by a licensed medical doctor or
osteopathic physician as being physically incapable of transporting their
refuse to curbside.
   Hazardous waste. The term “hazardous waste” shall mean any chemical,
compound, mixture, substance or article which is designated by the United
States Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate agency of the state to be
“hazardous” as that term is defined by or pursuant to federal or state law.
   Landfill. The term “landfill” shall mean the real property contracted for
disposal of refuse.
   Producer. The term “producer” shall mean an occupant of a commercial and
industrial unit or a residential unit who generates refuse.
   Refuse. The term “refuse” shall mean residential refuse and bulky waste,
construction debris, and stable matter generated at a residential unit, unless
the context otherwise requires, and commercial and industrial refuse.
   Residential refuse. The term “residential refuse” shall mean all garbage and
rubbish generated by a producer at a residential unit.
   Residential unit. The term “residential unit” shall mean a dwelling within
the corporate limits of the city occupied by a person or group of persons
comprising not more than four families. A residential unit shall be deemed to
be occupied when either water or domestic light and power services are being
supplied thereto. A condominium dwelling, whether of single or multilevel
construction, consisting of four or less contiguous or separate single-family
dwelling units, shall be treated as a residential unit, except that each
single-family dwelling within any such residential unit shall be billed as a
residential unit.
   Rubbish or trash. The term “rubbish” or “trash” shall mean all waste wood,
wood, wood products, tree trimmings, grass cuttings, dead plants, weeds,
leaves, dead trees or branches thereof, chips, shavings, sawdust, printed
matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used and discarded clothing, used and
discarded shoes and boots, combustible waste pulp and other products such as
are used for packaging, or wrapping crockery and glass, ashes, cinders, floor
sweepings, glass, mineral or metallic substances, and any and all other waste
material not included in the definition of bulky waste, construction debris,
dead animals, garbage, hazardous waste or stable matter.
(Ord. No. 1846, 7-8-86; Ord. No. 2704, § 2, 2-26-98; Ord. No. 3525, § 32, 6-14-
07)
Sec. 49-3. Administrative regulations.
   The Director of Public Works or said person's designee shall promulgate
rules for the operation of the City's garbage collection services. Such rules
must be consistent with this article and may include, without limitation, rules
specifying collection holidays, unacceptable wastes, collection days and times,
acceptable locations for placement of containers for collection, the maximum
number of containers to be placed for collection at any one time, the form of
applications and other paperwork necessary for commercial collection service,
and any other rules or regulations necessary or convenient to the operation of
the City's garbage collection services. Such rules shall be in writing and
shall be made available to the public.
(Ord. No. 3705, § 2, 08-12-10)
Sec. 49-4. Reserved.
   (Ord. No. 3705, § 3, 08-12-10)
Sec. 49-5. Reserved.
   (Ord. No. 3705, § 4, 08-12-10)
Sec. 49-6. Reserved.
   (Ord. No. 3705, § 5,  08-12-10)
Sec. 49-7. Residential collection rate.
(a)    The fair and reasonable rates for the collection and removal of garbage,
trash and small quantities of brush, exclusive of that referred to in Sections
49-12, 49-13, and 49-14 hereof, for each family unit using or occupying any
building, house or structure or part thereof for residential purposes shall be
as set forth by resolution of the City Council.
(b)    The schedule of rates and charges for residential customers of the city
that are located outside the corporate limits of the city shall be as set forth
by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 2101, 9-13-90; Ord. No. 2231, 7-23-92; Ord. No. 2495, 9-15-95; Ord.
No. 2758, § 2, 9-10-99; Ord. No. 2838, § 2, 9-9-99; Ord. No. 2961, § 2, 9-28-
00; Ord. No. 3063, § 2, 9-13-01)
Sec. 49-8. Reserved.
   (Ord. No. 3705, § 6, 08-12-10)
Sec. 49-9. Commercial collection rate.
(a)    The fair and reasonable rates for commercial collection of garbage and
trash as specified in Section 49-8 hereof shall be as set forth by resolution
of the City Council.
(b)    The schedule of rates and charges for commercial garbage and trash
customers of the city that are located outside the corporate limits of the city
shall be as set forth by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 2101, 9-30-90; Ord. No. 2231, 7-23-92; Ord. No. 2838, § 3, 9-9-99;
Ord. No. 3063, § 4, 9-13-01)
Sec. 49-10. Charges for collection and suspension of service; fuel charge.
(a)   The charges fixed in Sections 49-7 and 49-9 for the removal and
disposition of garbage, trash and brush shall be levied by the city against all
owners, occupants, tenants or lessees using or occupying any building, house or
structure, except those who have their garbage, trash and brush hauled away and
disposed of by licensed garbage haulers.
(b)   Each residential unit and each commercial unit for which a charge is
imposed pursuant to Section 49-7 or 49-9 of this code shall pay a monthly fuel
charge. Said charge shall be in addition to any and all charges imposed
pursuant to Section 49-7 or 49-9 of this Code. Said charge shall equal the
total motor fuel cost for garbage collection during the most recent month for
which such data is available divided by the total number of residential units
and commercial units for which a charge is imposed pursuant to Section 49-7 or
49-9 of this Code.
(c)   Any person who shall fail or refuse to pay any of the charges imposed
pursuant to Section 49-7, Section 49-9, or this section within ten days from
the date same shall become due and payable, shall have his service suspended,
and the city health official shall be notified immediately for appropriate
action in accordance with the ordinances and laws regulating health and
sanitation.
(Ord. No. 184, § 16, 10-19-57; Ord. No. 1402, Art. III, 4-23-81; Ord. No. 3599,
§ 2, 8-21-08)
Sec. 49-11. Responsibility for charges in apartments served by one water meter.
Where any apartment house or building is served water through one meter, the
person in whose name the water account stands shall be responsible for the
garbage removal fee.
(Ord. No. 184, § 16, 10-19-52)
Sec. 49-12. Reserved.
   (Ord. No. 3705, § 7, 08-12-10)
Sec. 49-13. Reserved.
   (Ord. No. 3705, § 8, 08-12-10)
Sec. 49-14. Reserved.
   (Ord. No. 3705,§ 9, 08-12-10)
Sec. 49-15. Improper disposal of solid waste prohibited.
(a)   Each of the following acts by any person is hereby declared to be
unlawful as a public nuisance:
   (1)   depositing any solid waste on any public or private property that is
not inside of any building;
   (2)   causing or allowing to be deposited any solid waste on any public or
private property that is not inside of any building;
   (3)   permitting any solid waste to remain on any property that is owned by,
occupied by or under the control of the person and that is not inside of any
building, whether or not the person deposited the solid waste onto the
property.
(b)   The following shall be affirmative defenses to prosecution under this
section:
   (1)   the solid waste was deposited or permitted to remain in order to allow
proper collection and disposal of same by the city or by a person possessing a
valid solid waste collection permit issued under the authority of this chapter,
and the solid waste was deposited or permitted to remain in compliance with all
applicable provisions of city, state and federal law, and with all applicable
rules promulgated pursuant to Section 49-3 of this article.
(c)   In this section, the term solid waste shall mean any bulky waste,
commercial refuse, residential refuse, garbage, refuse, dead animals,
construction debris, hazardous waste, rubbish and trash, or any other discarded
materials.
(d)   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law, allegation and
evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof of an offense
defined by this section.
(e)   In accordance with the authority provided by Section 217.042 of the Texas
Local Government Code, this section shall apply within the city limits of the
City of Longview and to any area that is outside of the city limits of the City
of Longview but within 5,000 feet of said limits.
(Ord. No. 184, § 9, 10-19-52; Ord. No. 3286, § 13, 1-22-04, Ord. No. 3705, §
10, 08-12-10)
Sec. 49-16. Reserved.
   (Ord. No. 3705, § 11, 08-12-10)
Sec. 49-17. Only city employees to empty garbage cans unless permit issued.
No one except the duly authorized agents and employees of the city shall empty
garbage cans or receptacles, or convey or transport garbage or trash on the
streets, alleys and public thoroughfares of the city without a written permit
granted and issued by the city sanitarian.
(Ord. No. 184, § 11, 10-19-52)
Secs. 49-18 - 49-19. Reserved.
Sec. 49-20. Permit required for collection of commercial and industrial solid
waste.
(a)   No person, firm, corporation, or other entity, excluding the city, may
use the public streets, alleys, or thoroughfares within the corporate limits of
the city for the purpose of engaging in the business of collecting or
transporting solid waste from commercial and industrial premises within the
city without first having obtained a solid waste collection permit from the
city.
(b)   If any person engages in the business of collecting or transporting solid
waste without a permit as required by this section, such act shall constitute a
misdemeanor and subject such person to a fine as provided in Section 1-4. Each
and every act shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 2853, § 3, 9-23-99)
Sec. 49-21. Application for permit; expiration; permit not transferable.
(a)   To obtain a solid waste collection permit, a person must submit an
application on a form provided by the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee. The applicant must be the person who will own, control, or operate
the proposed solid waste collection service.
(b)   The permit application shall include the following information:
   (1)   the applicant's name, address and verified signature;
   (2)   the form of business of the applicant, and, if the business is a
corporation or association, evidence of the authority of the person signing the
application to represent the business;
   (3)   a description of all vehicles to be used by the applicant, including
the vehicle type, capacity, vehicle identification number, and license number;
   (4)   a certificate of insurance or other evidence establishing that the
applicant has motor vehicle liability insurance, or other proof of financial
responsibility, as required by law;
   (5)   a statement of the disposition to be made of the solid waste
collected, including the site(s) where the solid waste will be deposited;
provided however, that the applicant shall provide water-tight, metal
containers with secure lids to hold all solid waste so deposited therein.
(c)   Application for the permit shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable
processing fee, the amount of said fee to be as set by resolution of the City
Council.
(d)   The solid waste collection permit expires December 31 of each year, and
may be renewed by making application as provided in this section.
(e)   The permit required by this section shall not be transferable.
(Ord. No. 2853, § 3, 9-23-99; Ord. No. 3053, § 30, 8-9-01)
Sec. 49-22. Requirement to furnish information.
The books and records of the permit holder shall be open at reasonable times
for inspection by the Director of Finance or his designee in accordance with
the terms of this section.
(Ord. No. 2853, § 3, 9-23-99)
Sec. 49-23. Marking of vehicles and containers.
The permit holder shall identify all vehicles and solid waste containers with
its name in letters at least two inches tall.
(Ord. No. 2853, § 3, 9-23-99)
Sec. 49-24. Revocation of permit.
The City Manager or designee may revoke a solid waste collection permit for
failure of the holder to provide required information, for failure to pay fees
or for making false statements on the application or quarterly report. The
revocation may be appealed to the City Council if written notice is given to
the City Manager within ten days of the receipt of the revocation order. The
order of the City Council approving or disapproving the order of the City
Manager shall be final.
(Ord. No. 2853, § 3, 9-23-99)
Sec. 49-25. Street use fee imposed on solid waste collectors.
Each holder of a permit issued under Section 49-21 shall pay the city a street
use fee equal to ten percent of the gross receipts earned from waste collected,
hauled or disposed from within the city limits. The permit holder shall keep
records of all gross receipts on all revenues and income collected from any
source derived from the permit holder's operation of the solid waste collection
within the city limits. Street use fees are due and shall be paid monthly no
later than the 15th of the same month in which sales tax reports to the State
Comptroller are due. Anyone who fails to pay the fee imposed by this section
within the time required shall forfeit five percent of the amount due as a
penalty, and after the first 30 days, shall forfeit an additional five percent
of such fee. Delinquent fees shall also draw interest at the rate of six
percent per annum being 45 days from the date due.
(Ord. No. 2853, § 3, 9-23-99)
Secs. 49-26 - 49-35. Reserved.
Article II.
Litter in Public and Private Places
Sec. 49-36. Definitions.
For the purpose of this article the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivatives shall have the meaning given herein:
   Authorized receptacle. The term "authorized receptacle" is a litter storage
or collection receptacle as required or authorized by the city.
   Garbage. The word "garbage" is putrescible animal and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   Litter. The word "litter" is "garbage," "refuse," and "rubbish," as defined
herein and all other waste material which, if thrown or deposited as herein
prohibited, tends to create a danger to public health, safety and welfare.
   Park. The word "park" is a park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation
center or any other public area in the city, owned or used by the city and
devoted to active or passive recreation.
   Private premises. The term "private premises" is any dwelling, house,
building, or other structure, designed or used either wholly or in part for
private residential purposes, whether inhabited or temporarily or continuously
uninhabited or vacant, and shall include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway,
porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling,
house, building, or other structure.
   Public place. The term "public place" is any and all streets, sidewalks,
boulevards, alleys or other public ways and any and all public parks, squares,
spaces, grounds, and buildings.
   Refuse. The word "refuse" is all putrescible and nonputrescible solid
wastes, except body wastes, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street
cleanings, dead animals, abandoned automobiles, and solid market and industrial
wastes.
   Rubbish. The word "rubbish" is nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of
both combustible and noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings,
cigarettes, cardboard, tin cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding,
crockery and similar materials.
   Vehicle. The word "vehicle" is every device in, upon, or by which any person
or property is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. No. 394, § 1, 6-14-60)
Sec. 49-37. Depositing litter - Upon streets; use of receptacles.
(a)   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk
or other public place within the city, except in public receptacles, in
authorized private receptacles, or in the official city dump.
(b)   Persons placing litter in public or private receptacles shall do so in
such manner as to prevent it from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk, or other public place, or upon private property.
(Ord. No. 394, §§ 2, 3, 6-14-60)
Sec. 49-38. Same - On private property.
No person shall throw or deposit litter upon any occupied or unoccupied private
property within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except that the
owner or person in control of private property may maintain authorized private
receptacles for collection of litter in such manner that such litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
(Ord. No. 394, § 8, 6-14-60)
Sec. 49-39. Sweeping of litter generally.
(a)   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any storm sewer, gutter, street,
or other public place within the city the accumulation of litter from any
building, lot, public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or
occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of
litter.
(b)   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
city shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter. Any person owning or occupying a place of business shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter and shall prevent any litter from his
premises from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
(Ord. No. 394, §§ 4, 5, 5a, 6-14-60)
Sec. 49-40. Throwing litter from vehicles prohibited.
No person, while a driver or a passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city or upon private
property.
(Ord. No. 394, § 6, 6-14-60)
Sec. 49-41. Loading of vehicles to prevent scattering of litter on streets,
etc.
No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city unless
such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents, or
litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley, or other public
place.
(Ord. No. 394, § 7, 6-14-60)
Secs. 49-42 - 49-51. Reserved.
Article III.
Abatement and Removal of Junked Vehicles
Sec. 49-52. In general.
(a)    The term "junked vehicle" means a vehicle that is self-propelled and
meets both of the following criteria:
   (1)   the vehicle does not have lawfully attached to it:
      a.   an unexpired license plate; or
      b.   a valid motor vehicle inspection certificate; and
   (2)   the vehicle is:
      a.   wrecked, dismantled or partially dismantled or discarded; or
      b.   inoperable and has remained inoperable for more than 72 consecutive
hours if the vehicle is on public property; or inoperable and has remained
inoperable for more than 30 consecutive days if the vehicle is on private
property.
(b)   Junked vehicles which are located in any place where they are visible
from a public place or public right-of-way are detrimental to the safety and
welfare of the general public, tending to reduce the value of private property,
to invite vandalism, to create fire hazards, to constitute an attractive
nuisance creating a hazard to the health and safety of minors, and are
detrimental to the economic welfare of the city by producing urban blight which
is adverse to the maintenance and continuing development of the city and such
vehicles are therefore declared to be a public nuisance.
(c)   It shall be unlawful for a person to maintain a public nuisance as
determined under this section.
(d)   Whenever such public nuisance exists on private property within the city,
in violation of this section, the Chief of Police or his/her duly authorized
agent shall give not less than ten days written notice stating the nature of
the public nuisance and that it must be removed and abated within ten days and
that a request for a hearing must be made before expiration of said ten-day
period, such notice to be mailed by certified mail or registered mail with a
five-day return requested to the last known registered owner of the junked
vehicle, any lienholder of record, and the owner or the occupant of the private
premises whereupon such public nuisance exists. If the notice is returned
undelivered by the United States Post Office, official action to abate said
nuisance shall be continued to a date not less than the eleventh day from the
date of such return.
(e)   Whenever such public nuisance exists on public property or on a public
right-of-way in violation of this section, the Chief of Police or his/her duly
authorized agent shall give not less than ten days written notice stating the
nature of the public nuisance and that it must be removed or abated within ten
days and that a request for a hearing must be made before expiration of said
ten-day period, such notice to be mailed, by certified mail or registered mail
with a five-day return requested, to the last known registered owner of the
junked vehicle, any lien holder of record, and the owner or occupant of the
public premises or to the owner or the occupant of the premises adjacent to the
right-of-way whereupon such public nuisance exists. If the notice is returned
undelivered by the United States Post Office, official action to abate said
nuisance shall be continued to a date not less than the eleventh day from the
date of such return.
(f)   After a motor vehicle has been removed under the terms and provisions of
this section, it shall not be reconstructed or made operable.
(g)   In the event any party to whom notice is directed under the provisions of
this section shall in writing request a public hearing prior to the removal of
the vehicle or part thereof as a public nuisance, such public hearing shall be
held before the City Manager or his/her duly authorized agent, not earlier than
the eleventh day after service of notice to abate the nuisance. At the hearing,
the junked vehicle is presumed to be inoperable unless the owner demonstrates
otherwise.
(h)   In the event, after public hearing, (or after the time for requesting a
hearing has expired without request, and any extended period of time for notice
as authorized herein has likewise expired), the City Manager or his/her duly
authorized designee shall determine that such vehicle or part thereof
constitutes a public nuisance, he/she may order the removal of such vehicle or
part thereof, which order shall include a description of the vehicle and the
correct identification number and license number of the vehicle, if available
at the site.
(i)   Upon the issuance of the order referred to in paragraph (h) hereof, the
Chief of Police or his/her duly authorized agent, shall go upon the premises
specified in such order and remove such vehicle or part thereof from the
premises to a scrap yard, demolishers or any suitable site designated by the
city.
(j)   Within five days after the date of removal of such vehicle or part
thereof, the Chief of Police or his/her duly authorized agent shall give notice
to the state highway department of such removal identifying the vehicle or part
thereof.
(k)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to:
   (1)   Unlicensed, operable or inoperable antique and special interest
vehicles stored by a collector on his private property, provided that the
vehicles in the outdoor storage areas are maintained in an orderly manner, that
they do not constitute a health hazard and are screened from ordinary public
view by means of a fence, rapidly growing trees, shrubbery or other appropriate
means.
   (2)   For purposes of this article, an "antique vehicle" is a passenger car
or truck that is at least 25 years old. For purposes of this article, a
"special interest vehicle" is a motor vehicle of any age that has not been
altered or modified from original manufacturer's specifications and, because of
its historic interest, is being preserved by hobbyists. "Collector" means the
owner of one or more antique or special interest vehicles who collects,
purchases, acquires, trades, or disposes of special interest or antique
vehicles or parts of them for his own use in order to restore, preserve and
maintain an antique or special interest vehicle for historic interest.
(l)   All of the procedures set forth in this section shall be carried out by
salaried, full-time employees of the city except that the removal of vehicles
or parts thereof from property may be by any other duly authorized person.
(m)   The Chief of Police, his/her duly authorized agent, or any person
authorized by the city to administer the provisions of the procedures set forth
in this section may enter upon private property for the purposes specified
herein to examine vehicles or parts thereof, obtain information as to the
identity of the vehicle and to remove or cause the removal of a vehicle or part
thereof declared to be a nuisance pursuant hereto. The municipal court of the
city shall have the authority to issue all orders necessary to enforce any
procedures set forth in this section.
(n)   If the public nuisance is not removed and abated and a hearing not
requested within the ten-day period provided by subsections (d) and (e) of this
section, a complaint may be filed against the party violating this section in
the municipal court of the city.
(o)   Nothing in this section shall affect any statute or ordinance that
permits immediate removal of a vehicle left on public property which
constitutes an obstruction to traffic.
(p)   Each individual violation of this section is a misdemeanor and, upon
adjudication of guilt, a fine not to exceed $2,000.00 shall be assessed against
such violator in accordance with the provisions of Section 1-4 of this Code.
Each continuing day of each violation shall be deemed a separate offense for
which a separate fine may be assessed. The City Council hereby dispenses with
the requirement of establishing a culpable mental state in order to prove a
violation of this section.
(q)   The relocation of a junked vehicle to another location in the city after
a proceeding for the abatement and removal of the junked vehicle has commenced
has no effect on the proceeding if the junked vehicle constitutes a public
nuisance at the new location.
(Ord. No. 2704, § 3, 2-26-98; Ord. No. 2983, § 3, 12-14-00; Ord. No. 3107, §§
2-4, 2-28-02)
Sec. 49-53. Evidence of abandonment.
If a junked motor vehicle, as defined in this article, has been situated on the
private property of another, without such person's permission for a period of
60 days or longer, this fact shall be prima facie evidence that the owner of
said vehicle has abandoned the same.
(Ord. No. 2704, § 3, 2-26-98)
Secs. 49-54 - 49-60. Reserved.
Article IV.
Control of Weeds, Junk, and Other Objectionable, Unsightly, or Unsanitary
Matter on Private Premises
Sec. 49-61. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article IV shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Brush shall mean scrub vegetation or dense undergrowth.
   Carrion shall mean the dead and putrefying flesh of any animal, fowl, or
fish.
   Cultivated shall mean vegetation that is deliberately grown and currently
and continuously maintained by the owner, occupant, or agent of the property.
   Developed property shall mean any tract of land or lot which meets any one
of the following criteria:
   (1)   any structure or paving currently exists or has previously existed on
the tract or lot; or
   (2)   any grading, mining, drilling, dredging, filling or excavation has
taken place on the tract or lot.
Clearing trees or vegetation from a tract or lot shall not, by itself, be
construed to render the affected tract or lot "developed property" within the
meaning of this article.
   Filth shall mean any matter in a putrescent state.
   Garbage shall mean all decayable waste.
   Impure or unwholesome matter shall mean any putrescible or nonputrescible
condition, object or matter which tends, may, or could produce injury, death,
or disease to human beings.
   Junk shall mean all worn out, useless, worthless, discarded, or scrap
material, including, but not limited to, odds and ends, old metal, scrap
lumber, building debris, or old building materials, used tires, vehicle parts,
and other items no longer used in the manner in which they were intended,
including, but not limited to, furniture, working and non-working appliances
and machinery and parts thereof.
   Maintained when referring to vegetation, shall mean watered, pruned,
trimmed, treated, and controlled in such a manner as to enhance the use or
enjoyment of one's property, without interfering with the enjoyment or use of
neighboring property or public access.
   Nuisance shall mean anything which is injurious to the health or morals, or
indecent or offensive to the senses or an obstruction to the free use of
property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
   Objectionable, unsightly, or unsanitary matter shall mean any matter,
condition or object which is or should be objectionable, unsightly or
unsanitary to a person of ordinary sensitivities.
   Owner shall mean a person having some interest in title to real property.
   Paving shall mean any hard, smooth surface that will bear automobile travel,
such as a surface of asphalt, concrete, brick, or other similar materials. The
term shall not include a surface consisting only of packed earth, loose rock,
or loose crushed rock.
   Person shall include a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust,
company, or corporation, as well as an individual.
   Refuse shall mean a heterogeneous accumulation of worn out, used, broken,
rejected, or worthless materials, and includes garbage, rubbish, paper or
litter, and other decayable or nondecayable waste.
   Rubbish shall mean both garbage and trash and shall include all animal,
vegetable and inorganic matter subject to discard which is generated from
within a household, residence, or business, such as but not limited to coffee
grounds, tin cans, bottles, paper bags, plastic items, boxes, glass, and food
articles, and additionally, shall include all animal, vegetable, and inorganic
matter subject to discard which is not typically generated from within a
household, residence, or business, such as shrubbery, grass clippings, brush,
yard cleaning materials, leaves, tree trimmings, stoves, refrigerators, old
iceboxes, pieces of metal scrap, feathers, furniture, dead animals, rocks,
shingles, building materials, junk, trash, refuse, and other worn-out, wrecked
or dismantled machinery, tractors, automobiles, and other similar wastes.
   Structure shall mean any manmade structure that has been used as a residence
or as a public gathering place. Structure shall also mean any manmade structure
that has been occupied by a business or a non-profit organization. The term
shall also include any construction, whether finished or unfinished, that is
intended for any of the aforementioned uses.
   Trash shall mean all non-decayable waste.
   Undeveloped property shall mean any tract of land or lot which is not
developed property.
   Vegetation or vegetative shall mean or refer to any grass, weeds, shrubs,
trees, brush, bushes, or vines.
   Weeds shall mean vegetation that because of its height is objectionable,
unsightly or unsanitary, but excluding cultivated crops, shrubs, bushes, trees,
flowers, and vines.
(Ord. No. 2898, § 4, 2-10-00)
Sec. 49-62. Overgrown vegetation, rubbish and stagnant water prohibited.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, leasing, claiming, occupying,
or having supervision or control of any real property within the corporate
limits of the city to allow:
   (1)   on undeveloped property (including, but not limited to, any right-of-
way, easement, or drainage ditch) grass, weeds, or brush where any portion of
the grass, weeds, or brush is in excess of 12 inches in height to grow
uncultivated within 20 feet of the edge of any improved roadway or public
street within the corporate limits of the city.
   (2)   on all other property (including, but not limited to, any right-of-
way, easement, or drainage ditch), grass, weeds, or brush in excess of 12
inches in height to grow uncultivated.
   (3)   refuse, rubbish, junk, litter, trash, debris (vegetative, building or
other), garbage, discarded items, carrion, filth, animal or human feces, or any
other unsightly or unsanitary matter to accumulate or remain on any lot or
tract of land within the corporate limits of the city regardless of the size of
said lot or tract of land, whether developed or undeveloped, commercial or
residential, occupied or unoccupied.
   (4)   any holes, places, objects, or matter on any lot, tract, or parcel of
land where water accumulates and becomes stagnant, or to permit same to remain.
   (5)   any condition that provides harborage for rodents or other vermin or
that creates a fire hazard to accumulate or remain on any premises in the city.
Such conditions include, but are not limited to weeds, overgrown vegetation,
downed timber, brush, old logs, decaying vegetation, junk, refuse, rubbish and
garbage.
   (6)   any condition to exist that constitutes any threat to the public
health or safety, or constitutes a nuisance.
(b)   Allegation and evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the
proof of an offense defined by this section.
(Ord. No. 2898, § 4, 2-10-00; Ord. No. 3286, § 14, 1-22-04)
Sec. 49-63. Duty to comply with article.
It shall be the duty of any person owning, leasing, claiming, occupying, or
having supervision or control of any real property, occupied or unoccupied,
improved or unimproved, developed or undeveloped, within the corporate limits
of the city to maintain that property in full compliance with this article.
(Ord. No. 2898, § 4, 2-10-00)
Sec. 49-64. Nuisance declared.
All rubbish and stagnant water shall be presumed to be objectionable,
unsightly, and unsanitary, and are hereby declared a public nuisance.
(Ord. No. 2898, § 4, 2-10-00)
Sec. 49-65. Notice of violation prior to abatement by city.
(a)   Notice required. Except as provided by Section 49-66 of this Article IV,
or subsection (b) of this section, in the event that any person owning any real
property, occupied or unoccupied, improved or unimproved, developed or
undeveloped, within the corporate limits of the city fails or refuses to comply
with the provisions of this Article IV, the city shall give ten (10) days
notice of the violation to the owner prior to abating the violation, as
provided herein.
(b)   Notice for first offense on unoccupied property.  If any person owning
unoccupied real property within the corporate limits of the city fails or
refuses to comply with the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) of Section 49-62
and, within the immediately preceding twelve (12) months, said person has not
failed or refused to comply with said provisions with regard to said real
property, the city shall give thirty (30) days notice of the violation to the
owner prior to abating the violation as provided herein.
(c)   Manner of notice. The notice shall be given:
   (1)   personally to the owner in writing; or
   (2)   by letter addressed to the owner at the owner's post office address;
or
   (3)   if personal service cannot be obtained or the owner's post office
address is unknown:
      a.   by publication at least twice within ten(10) consecutive days; or
      b.   by posting notice on or near the front door of each building on the
property to which the violation relates; or
      c.   by posting notice on a placard attached to a stake driven into the
ground on the property to which the violation relates, if the property contains
no buildings.
(d)   Contents of notice. The notice shall contain:
   (1)   the name and address of the record owner;
   (2)   an identification, which is not required to be a legal description, of
the property upon which the violation is located;
   (3)   a statement describing the violation, and the work necessary to
correct the violation;
   (4)   a statement advising the owner that if the work is not completed
within the period prescribed by subsection (a) or (b) of this section, as the
case may be, the city will perform the work and assess the cost of the work to
the owner, including as a minimum the city's administrative fee as provided in
Section 49-67(b) of this Article;
   (5)   a statement that if the city performs the work and the owner fails to
pay the cost, a priority lien may be placed on the property;
   (6)   a statement that the owner may, within five (5) days of the date of
the notice of a violation, submit a written request to the appropriate person
named in the notice for an informal hearing before the City Manager or his
designee to contest whether the violation exists; and
   (7)   a statement that the city may, at any time, file a criminal
misdemeanor complaint in municipal court with a maximum fine of $2,000.00 for
each day the violation exists, in addition to or in lieu of any other remedy
provided by law.
(e)   Informal hearing. If a written request is received according to
subsection (d)(6) of this section, an informal hearing shall be held before the
City Manager or his designee. Unless the owner requests and is granted an
immediate hearing, and waives the right to notice, notice of the time and place
of the hearing shall be sent to the owner by certified mail. At the hearing,
the City Manager or his designee may consider all facts relating to the
existence of a violation. After the hearing, the City Manager or his designee
may determine that a violation requiring abatement does or does not exist.
(Ord. No. 2922, § 2, 4-27-00)
Sec. 49-66. Additional authority to abate dangerous weeds without prior notice.
(a)   Authority to abate dangerous weeds.  The city may abate, without prior
notice, weeds that (1) have grown higher than 48 inches and (2) are an
immediate danger to the health, life, or safety of any person.
(b)   Notice of abatement. Not later than the 10th day after the date the city
abates weeds under this section, the city shall give notice to the property
owner in the manner required by Section 49-65(c) of this article. The notice
shall contain the items specified in Section 49-68(a) of this article.
(c)   Hearing. The city shall conduct a hearing under this section if, not
later than the 30th day after the date of the abatement of the weeds the
property owner files with the city a written request for a hearing. If a
hearing is requested, it shall be conducted according to Section 49-68(c) of
this article, except that the hearing shall be conducted by the civil municipal
court created under Section 28-23 of this Code not later than the 20th day
after the date a request for hearing is filed.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 3, 1-13-00; Ord. No. 2898, § 4, 2-10-00)
Sec. 49-67. Performance of work by city.
(a)   City may perform work. If such person fails or refuses to comply with the
provisions of this article within the period prescribed by subsection (a) or
(b) of Section 49-65 of this article, as the case may be, or after an informal
hearing is held pursuant to Section 49-65(e) of this article, whichever is
later, or if the weeds are dangerous according to Section 49-66 of this
article, the city may go upon such property, or authorize another to go upon
such property, and do or cause to be done the work necessary to obtain
compliance with this article, and may charge the expenses incurred in having
same done to the owner of such property as provided hereafter. The remedy
provided in this subsection (a) is in addition to the remedy provided for in
Section 49-70 of this article.
(b)   Assessment of costs. If the city performs the work to obtain compliance
with this article, there shall be assessed an administrative fee of $217.00 in
addition to any cost incurred in doing the work or causing it to be done. At
the discretion of the City Manager or his designee, the administrative fee may
be adjusted annually after the first calendar year proportionate to any
increases in the "CPI" (as defined below), with the adjusted fee to be obtained
by multiplying the "base fee" (as defined below) by a number equal to one plus
the quotient of the following formula:
   CPI/2 - CPI/1/CPI/1
   In applying the above formula for the administrative fee adjustment, the
following definitions shall be used.
      Base fee shall mean the administrative fee assessed during the calendar
year immediately preceding the calendar year for which adjustment is being
computed.
      CPI shall mean the monthly indexes of the Consumer Price Index issued by
the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics or any successor
agency of the United States that shall issue such indexes or data.
      CPI/1 shall mean the average of the monthly CPI for the twelve
consecutive calendar months ending 60 days before the commencement of the
calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year for which the adjustment
of charges is being computed.
      CPI/2 shall mean the average of the monthly CPI for the twelve
consecutive calendar months ending 60 days before the commencement of the
calendar year for which the adjustment of charges is being computed.
(Ord. No. 2898, § 4, 2-10-00)
Sec. 49-68. Notice of costs assessed for work performed by city; right of owner
to hearing.
(a)   Notice. After the city abates a violation of this article, the city shall
give notice to the property owner in the manner required by Section 49-65(c) of
this article. The notice shall contain:
   (1)   the name and address of the owner;
   (2)   an identification, which is not required to be a legal description, of
the property;
   (3)   a description of the violations that occurred on the property;
   (4)   a statement that the city abated the violation(s);
   (5)   the amount of expenses (including the administrative fee) incurred by
the city and owed by the property owner;
   (6)   a statement that if the owner fails to pay the expenses within 30 days
of receipt of the notice or fails to timely request a hearing as authorized
herein, a priority lien may be placed on the property to secure payment; and
   (7)   an explanation of the property owner's right to request in writing a
hearing about the city's abatement of the violation, and the time period in
which a written request must be submitted to the city.
(b)   Hearing. The city shall conduct a hearing on the abatement of a nuisance
under this article if, not later than the 10th day after the date of notice,
the property owner files with the city a written request for a hearing.
(c)   Conduct of hearing. The following shall apply to the conduct of the
hearing:
   (1)   A hearing shall be conducted by the civil municipal court created
under Section 28-23 of this Code not later than the 45th day after the date a
request for hearing is filed.
   (2)   The owner and the city may testify or present witnesses or written
information related to the city's abatement of the nuisance.
   (3)   The city has the burden to show that a violation of this Article IV
existed, notice was given in substantial compliance with this article, and
costs incurred to abate the violation (other than the administrative fee) were
reasonable. The administrative fee established by this ordinance shall be
presumed reasonable.
   (4)   At the close of the hearing the civil municipal court created under
Section 28-23 of this Code shall approve the assessment, deny the assessment,
or adjust the amount of the assessment and approve it as adjusted.
(Ord. No. 2893, § 4, 1-13-00; Ord. No. 2898, § 4, 2-10-00)
Sec. 49-69. Lien authorized.
The charges provided for in this Article IV shall be levied, assessed and
collected by the city. In the event the owner of said premises upon which the
work was done and charges were incurred fails or refuses to pay such charges
and expenses within 30 days after the written notification to pay, there shall
be assessed the charges and expenses incurred against the real estate on which
the work was done. After such time, or after a hearing if one is requested by
the owner, whichever is later, the mayor, municipal health authority, or other
municipal official designated by the mayor, shall file a statement with the
County Clerk of the expenses incurred in the abatement of the above-described
condition, including administrative costs as described herein, and the city
shall have a privileged lien on any lot or lots upon which such expenses were
incurred, second only to tax liens and liens for street improvements. The lien
statement shall state the name of the owner, if known, and the legal
description of the property. A copy of the lien statement filed with the County
Clerk shall be mailed to the owner, if the owner is known. Said privileged lien
shall bear interest at the rate of ten percent per annum from the date the work
was performed (if the work was performed by the city) or from the date payment
therefore was made by the city (if the work was performed by a contractor
retained by the city). For any such expenditures and interest as aforesaid,
suit may be instituted and foreclosure had in the name of the city and the
statement so made as aforesaid or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima
facie proof of the amounts expended for any such work or improvement.
(Ord. No. 2898, § 4, 2-10-00)
Sec. 49-70. Penalties.
Each individual violation of this Article is hereby declared a misdemeanor and
is punishable as follows:
(1)   First or second conviction. For a person's first or second conviction of
violation of this Article, the court may impose a fine of not less than $1.00
and not more than $200.00.
(2)   Third or fourth conviction. For a person's third or fourth conviction or
any subsequent conviction of violation of this Article, the court may impose a
fine of not less than $201.00 and not more than $400.00.
(3)   Fifth or subsequent conviction. For a person's fifth conviction or any
subsequent conviction of violation of this Article, the court may impose a fine
of not less than $401.00 nor more than $2,000.00.
(4)   Each day a separate offense. Each day that a violation of this article is
permitted to exist shall be deemed a separate offense for which a separate fine
may be assessed.
(5)   Definitions. For purposes of this Section 49-70, the term conviction
shall mean any instance in which the defendant was adjudged guilty or in which
the defendant entered a plea of guilty or nolo contendere in return for a grant
of deferred disposition, regardless of whether the sentence for the offense was
ever imposed or whether final disposition was deferred and the complaint was
subsequently dismissed upon the defendant's successful compliance with the
requirements imposed as conditions of the deferred disposition.
(Ord. No. 2922, § 3, 4-27-00)
Chapters 50 - 57
Reserved
Chapter 58
Offenses and Miscellaneous Provisions
Article I. In General
Secs.
58-1 - 58-8. Reserved.
Sec.
58-9.   State Penal Code adopted.
Secs.
58-10 - 58-20. Reserved.
Article II. Amplifying Equipment
Sec.
58-21.   Loud, raucous noises prohibited; prohibited noises enumerated,
exceptions.
Secs.
58-22 - 58-34. Reserved.
Article III. Nuisances
Secs.
58-35 - 58-37.  Reserved.
Sec.
58-38.   Offensive odors - Defined generally.
Sec.
58-39.   Same - Enumerated.
Secs.
58-40 - 58-53. Reserved.
Article IV. Offenses Against Property
Sec.
58-54.   Trespass; interference with and unauthorized use of property.
Sec.
58-55.   Reserved.
Sec.
58-56.   Placing advertisement on private property.
Sec.
58-57.   Destruction of or interference with certain property of another.
Sec.
58-58.   Discharge of harmful or hazardous substances.
Sec.
58-59.   Destruction or injury of trees and plants.
Sec.
58-60.   Defacing or destroying certain property generally.
Sec.
58-61.   Reserved.
Sec.
58-62.   Signs and pictures on public property.
Sec.
58-63.   Tampering with or damaging street lights and signals.
Sec.
58-64.   Defacing show windows.
Secs.
58-65 - 58-74. Reserved.
Article V. Public Morals and Conduct
Secs.
58-75 - 58-76.  Reserved.
Sec.
58-77.   Sleeping and lounging.
Sec.
58-78.   Camping in city.
Sec.
58-79.  Culpable Mental State.
Sec.
58-80.  Reserved
Sec.
58-81.   Obscene publications, exhibitions, moving pictures, etc.
Sec.
58-81.1. Display of obscene publications by establishments open to persons
under eighteen.
Sec.
58-82.   Vulgar writing, pictures, etc.
Secs.
58-83 - 58-86.  Reserved.
Sec.
58-87.   Disturbing the peace.
Sec.
58-88.   Manifesting the purpose of engaging in prostitution.
Sec.
58-89.   Discharging firearms.
Secs.
58-90 - 58-99.  Reserved.
Article VI. Prohibition of Nudity in Commercial Establishments
Sec.
58-100.   Purpose.
Sec.
58-101.   Prohibition.
Sec.
58-102.   Penalties.
Sec.
58-103.   Injunctive relief.
Secs.
58-104 - 58-113. Reserved.
Article VII. Regulation of Sexually-Oriented Businesses
Sec.
58-114.   Purpose; authority.
Sec.
58-115.   Definitions.
Sec.
58-116.   Classification.
Sec.
58-117.   License required and duties of applicant.
Sec.
58-118.   Issuance of license.
Sec.
58-119.   Fees.
Sec.
58-120.   Violations.
Sec.
58-121.   Inspection.
Sec.
58-122.   License - Expiration.
Sec.
58-123.   Same - Suspension.
Sec.
58-124.   Same - Revocation.
Sec.
58-125.   Appeal.
Sec.
58-126.   Transfer of license.
Sec.
58-127.   Additional regulations for adult cabarets.
Sec.
58-128.   Additional regulations for adult motels.
Sec.
58-129.   Additional regulations for adult tanning salons.
Sec.
58-130.   Additional regulations for adult theaters.
Sec.
58-131.   Additional regulations for escort agencies.
Sec.
58-132.   Additional regulations for nude modeling studios.
Sec.
58-133.   Additional regulations for sexual encounter centers.
Sec.
58-134.   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually-explicit films or
videos.
Sec.
58-135.   Display of sexually-explicit material to minors.
Sec.
58-136.   Defenses.
Sec.
58-137.   Enforcement.
Sec.
58-138.   Distance separation required.
Article I.
In General
Secs. 58-1 - 58-8. Reserved.
Sec. 58-9. State Penal Code adopted.
The State Penal Code is hereby adopted insofar as it is applicable to
municipalities and within the jurisdiction of the city's municipal court.
Secs. 58-10 - 58-20. Reserved.
Article II.
Amplifying Equipment
Sec. 58-21. Loud, raucous noises prohibited; prohibited noises enumerated,
exceptions.
(a)   It is unlawful to make, continue, or cause to be made or continued any
loud or raucous noise which:
   (1)   is offensive to persons in the vicinity thereof;
   (2)   substantially impairs the peaceable enjoyment of public or private
property; or
   (3)   causes material distress, discomfort, or injury to persons of ordinary
sensibilities in the area.
(b)   The following acts, among others, are loud and raucous noises, and are
unlawful:
   (1)   the playing of any radio, stereo, phonograph, musical instrument, or
similar device in such manner or with such volume so as to be heard at least 50
feet away, or so as to offend persons in the vicinity;
   (2)   the keeping or harboring of any animal or fowl which emits or makes
any noise which by its character, volume or repetition is offensive to persons
in the vicinity;
   (3)   the discharge into open air of the exhaust of any steam or internal
combustion engine, whether moveable or stationary, except through a muffler or
other device which will effectively prevent the emission of offensive noises
therefrom;
   (4)   the erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any
building or structure in or adjacent to a residential area or hotel between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and between 6:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. on weekends after receiving a complaint and warning to stop the noisy
activity, except in situations involving the interests of public safety,
official government business, or the protection of the subject property;
   (5)   the creation of any noise in a public place adjacent to a church,
school, cemetery, court of law, or other public building which, by its nature,
is reasonably calculated to disrupt, interfere with, or disturb the proceedings
conducted therein;
   (6)   the outdoor use of a drum, musical instrument, mechanical loud
speaker, or other sound amplification device for the purpose of attracting
attention by the creation of noise to any performance, show, sales event, or
display of merchandise so as to attract customers to any place of business;
   (7)   the outdoor use of a mechanical loudspeaker, calliope, mechanically
operated piano, organ, musical instrument or other sound amplification or
broadcasting equipment, whether stationary or mobile, emitting sound capable of
being heard within 100 feet of a private home, apartment building, hotel, or
other place of residence;
   (8)   the demolition, repair, or alteration of a motor vehicle or part
thereof in connection with which there is produced any noise which is offensive
to inhabitants in the vicinity or which substantially impairs the use of
enjoyment of adjacent property;
   (9)   the use or operation of any device that is equipped on any motor
vehicle, designed to aid in the braking, decompression, or deceleration which
results in the excessive, loud, unusual or explosive noise from such vehicle.
(c)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
   (1)   an official of federal, state, or local government or to members of
the United States armed forces engaged in the performance of official duties;
   (2)   persons engaged in the present performance or rendition of emergency
services;
   (3)   special events conducted in park or recreation areas pursuant to a
special event permit authorized by the Parks Director;
   (4)   public parades duly permitted;
   (5)   the use of outdoor sound amplification for outdoor public speeches,
ceremonies, political assemblages or paging purposes conducted at a fixed
location at least 100 feet from a residential district and the sound was not
audible beyond the property line of the premises on which it was located; or
   (6)   the use of sound amplification, intercom, or paging devices within the
interior of a church, school, auditorium, convention center, government
building or similar public meeting place.
(Ord. No. 2968, § 2, 10-12-00; Ord. No. 3462, § 2, 7-13-06)
Secs. 58-22 - 58-34. Reserved.
Article III.
Nuisances
Secs. 58-35 - 58-37. Reserved.
Sec. 58-38. Offensive odors - Defined generally.
(a)   Any unreasonably noxious unpleasant or strong odor, which causes material
distress, discomfort or injury to persons of ordinary sensibilities in the
immediate vicinity thereof, is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and is
hereafter prohibited.
(b)   Any odor, stench or smell of such character, strength and continued
duration which substantially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of
private homes by persons of ordinary sensibilities is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and is hereby prohibited.
(Code 1943, Art. 39-3)
Sec. 58-39. Same - Enumerated.
The following things are, among others, declared to be offensive odors and odor
nuisances in violation of this article, but said enumerations shall not be
deemed to be exclusive:
(1)   Cow lots. Offensive odors from cow lots, hog pens and other similar
places where animals are kept or fed, which shall disturb the comfort and
repose of persons of ordinary sensibilities.
(2)   Privies. Offensive odors from privies and other similar places.
(3)   Chemicals. Offensive odors from the use or possession of chemicals, or
from industrial processes or activities which shall disturb the comfort and
repose of persons of ordinary sensibilities.
(4)   Smoke.  Offensive odors from smoke from the burning of rubbish, trash,
rubber, chemical substances or other things or substances.
(5)   Stagnant pools. Offensive odors from stagnant pools allowed to remain on
any premises, or from rotting garbage, refuse, offal or dead animals, on any
premises.
(Code 1943, Art. 39-3)
Secs. 58-40 - 58-53. Reserved.
Article IV.
Offenses Against Property
Sec. 58-54. Trespass; interference with and unauthorized use of property.
It shall be unlawful for anyone in the city to trespass upon, interfere with or
use property of another person, or of a corporation, without the consent of the
owner or person in charge and control of such property.
(Code 1943, Art. 40-1)
Sec. 58-55. Reserved.
Sec. 58-56. Placing advertisement on private property.
The pasting, sticking or placing of any advertisement, handbill, placard or any
printed, pictured or written matter or thing, whatsoever, upon any house, wall,
building, fence, railing, sidewalk or other property, public or private,
without permission of the owner, or person in charge thereof, is hereby
declared to be unlawful.
(Code 1943, Art. 40-3)
Sec. 58-57. Destruction of or interference with certain property of another.
Any person who unlawfully, wilfully or maliciously breaks, throws down,
destroys or carries away any gate, step, door, box or barrel, the property of
another, or who, shall take down, deface or carry away any signboard, plate or
card which indicates the name, occupation or business of any person, firm or
corporation, shall be fined in accordance with Section 1-4 of this Code.
(Code 1943, Art. 40-4)
Sec. 58-58. Discharge of harmful or hazardous substances.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while handling, using or
transporting any hazardous substance, to suffer or permit any quantity of the
same to be discharged onto any public or private property, or into any street,
storm drain, or drainage way.
(b)   In this section, the term hazardous substance shall mean any substance
defined as hazardous industrial waste, hazardous substance, hazardous waste or
hazardous waste constituent in 30 Texas Administrative Code, Chapter 335,
Subchapter A, as amended.
(c)   Allegation and evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the
proof of an offense defined by this section.
(Code 1943, Art. 40-7; Ord. No. 3286, § 31, 1-22-04)
Sec. 58-59. Destruction or injury of trees and plants.
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure or destroy or take blooms from
any shade or ornamental tree, shrub, flower or other plant growing or planted
along any street, sidewalk, alley, park, cemetery or within any public grounds
or property of the city.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-1)
Sec. 58-60. Defacing or destroying certain property generally.
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, damage or destroy any
kind of public or private property.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-2)
Sec. 58-61. Reserved.
Sec. 58-62. Signs and pictures on public property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or paint any sign, picture,
character or advertisement upon any sidewalk, pavement, curb, public building
or other public property, without formal permission from the City Council.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-4)
Sec. 58-63. Tampering with or damaging street lights and signals.
It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to tamper with, damage, break
or destroy any street light, signal light, pipeline or other equipment of the
city.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-5)
Sec. 58-64. Defacing show windows.
It shall be unlawful for any person to mark or deface show windows or doors
with soap or other substances.
(Code 1943, Art. 9-6)
Secs. 58-65 - 58-74. Reserved.
Article V.
Public Morals and Conduct
Secs. 58-75 - 58-76. Reserved.
Sec. 58-77. Sleeping and lounging.
Sleep - as used in this section shall mean the appearance of the body at rest
with consciousness appearing to be suspended.
Lounge - as used in this section shall mean to sit or stand in a relaxed manner
more than momentarily.
It is unlawful for any person to sleep or lounge in or upon any public street,
alley, highway, sidewalk or other public property where others tend to walk,
run, or otherwise travel upon or use when such impedes the recreational
purposes, for which it is intended.
It is an exception if the person or persons is specifically permitted to sleep
or lounge upon said public property by ordinance or statute, or has been
granted permission by a representative of the City of Longview having authority
to grant such permission.
(Code 1943, Art. 41-3; Ord. No. 4125, §9, 9-28-17)
Sec. 58-78. Camping in city.
Camping - as used in this section shall mean to live outside of a permanent
structure in a tent or other temporary lodging.
It is unlawful for any person, family or other group of persons to camp within
the corporate limits of the City of Longview
It is an exception if the camping occurs on property the camper owns, the
camper lives in a permanent structure on the property, the tent or other
temporary lodging is not readily visible from the roadway, and the camping is
conducted for recreational purposes only.
It is an exception if the person, family or other group of persons, is
specifically permitted to camp upon said public property by ordinance or
statute, or has been granted permission by a representative of the City of
Longivew having authority to grant such permission.
(Code 1943, Art. 41-4; Ord. No. 4125, §10, 9-28-17; Ord. No. 4125, §10, 9-28-
17)
Sec. 58-79. Culpable Mental State.
Proof of a culpable mental state is not required for the prosecution of the
commission of an offense under this Article and need not be proven.
(Ord. No. 4125, §11, 9-28-17)
58-80. Reserved.
Sec. 58-81. Obscene publications, exhibitions, moving pictures, etc.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation knowingly to
print, sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit, televise, publish, or offer to
publish, or have in his or its possession or under his or its control, or
otherwise distribute, make, display or exhibit, any obscene book, magazine,
story, pamphlet, paper, writing, card, advertisement, circular, print,
pictures, photographs, motion picture film, image, cast, slide, figure,
instrument, statue, drawing, phonographic record, or other article which is
obscene
(b)   For the purposes of this section, the word "obscene" is defined as
whether to the average person, applying contemporary community standards, the
dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to the prurient
interest.
(c)   Any person, firm or corporation or any agent or employee of any person,
firm or corporation violating any provision of this section shall be fined in
accordance with Section 1-4 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Longview,
Texas, and each day's violation of any provision of this section shall be a
separate offense.
(d)   In the event of the violation of any provision of this section, the City
Attorney is hereby authorized to make application to the proper court or courts
to issue any and all proper restraining orders, temporary and permanent
injunctions and any other such writs and processes which shall be necessary to
carry out and enforce the provisions of this section.
(Code 1943, Arts. 41-7, 41-9; Ord. No. 591, §§ 1-4, 11-8-66)
Sec. 58-81.1. Display of obscene publications by establishments open to persons
under eighteen.
It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, manager, or other employee of a
business establishment open to persons under the age of 18 years, to display or
allow to be displayed a book, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, circular, print,
advertisement or card the cover of which depicts any one or more of the
following:
(1)   human sexual intercourse, masturbation or sodomy;
(2)   fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breasts;
(3)   less than completely and opaquely covered the human genitals, buttocks,
or that portion of the female breast below the top of the areola; or
(4)   human male genitals in a discernable turgid state, whether covered or
uncovered; in a manner calculated to arouse sexual lust or passion or to
exploit sexual lust or perversion for commercial gain.
For the purpose of this section, "to display or allow to be displayed" means to
make such material visible to the public eye in a business establishment.
(Ord. No. 1106, Art. I, 12-14-76)
Sec. 58-82. Vulgar writing, pictures, etc.
It is unlawful for any person to stick, print, brand, paint, stamp or put upon
any house, fence, wall, pavement, sidewalk or other public place in the city,
any indecent or vulgar writing, words, advertisement, bill, notice or picture.
(Code 1943, Art. 41-8)
Secs. 58-83 - 58-86. Reserved.
Sec. 58-87. Disturbing the peace.
Whosoever shall go into or near any public place or into or near any private
house and shall use loud and vociferous or obscene, vulgar or indecent language
or swear, or curse, or yell, or shriek, or expose his person, or rudely display
any pistol or other deadly weapon, in a manner calculated to disturb the
inhabitants of such place or house, shall be fined in accordance with Section
1-4 of this Code.
(Code 1943, Art. 41-12)
Sec. 58-88. Manifesting the purpose of engaging in prostitution.
(a)   A person commits an offense if that person loiters in a public place in a
manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of inducing, enticing,
soliciting, or procuring another to commit an act of prostitution.
(b)   Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining whether
such purpose is manifested are:
   (1) That such person is a known prostitute or panderer; and
   (2) That such person repeatedly beckons to, stops, or attempts to stop, or
engages others passing by in conversation; or
   (3) That such person repeatedly stops or attempts to stop motor vehicles by
hailing, waving of arms, or any other bodily gesture.
(c)   No arrest shall be made for a violation of this subsection unless the
arresting officer first affords such person an opportunity to explain such
conduct, and no one shall be convicted of violating this subsection if it
appears at trial that the explanation given was true and disclosed a lawful
purpose.
(d)   For the purpose of this section, a "known prostitute or panderer" is a
person who, within one (1) year previous to the date of this arrest, has been
convicted of prostitution, promotion of prostitution, aggravated promotion of
prostitution, or compelling prostitution.
(e)   The definition of prostitution in the Texas Penal Code shall apply to
this section.
(f)   It is hereby declared that the culpable mental state required by Chapter
6.02 of the Texas Penal Code, as amended, is specifically negated and clearly
dispensed with, and an offense under this section is declared to be a strict
liability offense.
(g)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and punished by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars.
   (Ord. No. 3701, § 2, 07-08-10)
Sec. 58-89. Discharging firearms.
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally or knowingly discharge a
rifle, gun, pistol, or any firearm within the corporate limits of the city;
provided, however, that the terms hereof shall not apply to the operation of a
regularly established shooting gallery or range; nor shall they apply to any
officer of the law discharging a firearm in the performance of his duty; nor
shall they apply to any citizen discharging a firearm while lawfully defending
person or property.
(Code 1943, Art. 41-12; Ord. No. 1394, Art. I, 3-10-81)
Secs. 58-90 - 58-99. Reserved.
Article VI.
Prohibition of Nudity in Commercial Establishments
Sec. 58-100. Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to prohibit certain acts of commercial
exploitation of human sexuality in commercial establishments within the city
limits of the City of Longview, Texas, where alcoholic beverages are served,
offered for sale for consumption on the premises, or permitted to be consumed
on the premises, and to reduce the likelihood of criminal activity, moral
degradation and disturbances of the peace and good order of the community, to
prohibit lewd and unlawful activity, such as prostitution and the proliferation
of controlled substances, all of which may occur when such commercial
exploitation is permitted in such places, and to promote the preservation of
property values of neighborhoods and adjacent properties.
Sec. 58-101. Prohibition.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person maintaining, owning, or operating a
commercial establishment located within the boundaries of the city, at which
alcoholic beverages are served or offered for sale for consumption on the
premises, or at which alcoholic beverages are permitted to be consumed:
   (1)   to suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of said
commercial establishment, to expose that area of the human female breast at or
below the top of the areola thereof.
   (2)   to suffer or permit any female person, while on the premises of said
commercial establishment, to use any device or covering which is intended to
give the appearance of or simulate such portions of the human female breasts as
described in Section 58-101(1)(A) hereof.
   (3)   to suffer or permit any person, while on the premises of said
commercial establishment, to expose his or her genitals, pubic area, buttocks,
anus or anal cleft or cleavage.
   (4)   to suffer or permit any person, while on the premises of said
commercial establishment, to use any device or covering which is intended to
give the appearance of or simulate the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus,
anal cleft, or cleavage.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any female person, while on the premises of a
commercial establishment located within the boundaries of the city, at which
alcoholic beverages are served or offered for sale for consumption on the
premises, or at which alcoholic beverages are permitted to be consumed, to
expose that area of the human female breast at or below the top of the areola
thereof, or to use any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance or simulate such areas of the female breast as described herein.
(c)   It shall be unlawful for any person, while on the premises of a
commercial establishment located within the boundaries of the city, at which
alcoholic beverages are served or offered for sale for consumption on the
premises, or at which alcoholic beverages are permitted to be consumed, to
expose his or her genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus, or anal cleft or
cleavage, or to use any device or covering which is intended to give the
appearance of or simulate the genitals, pubic area, buttocks, anus or anal
cleft or cleavage.
Sec. 58-102. Penalties.
Any violation of the provisions of this article shall be subject to the general
penalties applicable for such violations as the same are set out in Section 1-
4 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Longview.
Sec. 58-103. Injunctive relief.
That the City Attorney is and shall be hereby authorized to seek compliance
with this article by seeking injunctive relief in a court of proper
jurisdiction to compel the operator, owner, or other violator of this article
as the same shall be established, to comply with the terms and provisions
thereof. The ability of the city to seek injunctive relief hereunder shall not
be subject to, nor shall it be a prerequisite thereof, that the city has sought
compliance with this article by application of penalties and sanctions as
otherwise set out in this article.
(Ord. No. 2386, 4-14-94)
Sec. 58-104 - 58-113. Reserved.
Article VII.
Regulation of Sexually-Oriented Businesses
Sec. 58-114. Purpose; authority.
(a)   The purpose of this article is to regulate sexually-oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city,
and to establish a system of reasonable and uniform regulation of sexually-
oriented businesses within the city. The provisions of this article have
neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on the
content of any communicative materials, including sexually-oriented materials.
Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this article to restrict or deny
access by adults to sexually-oriented materials protected by the First
Amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually-
oriented entertainment to their intended market. The prohibition of the
promotion of obscene material (not protected by the First Amendment) is
enforceable through separate criminal sanctions under the Penal Code.
(b)   This article is promulgated pursuant to Chapter 243, Sections 243.001 et
seq of the Local Government Code.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-115. Definitions.
In this article the following definitions shall apply:
   Adult arcade means any place to which the public is permitted or invited
wherein coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, or mechanically-
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas."
   Adult bookstore or adult video store means a commercial establishment which
as one of its principal business purposes offers for sale or rental for any
form of consideration any one or more of the following:
   (1)   books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions, slides, or
other visual representations which depict or describe "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; or
   (2)   instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for use in
connection with "specified sexual activities."
   Adult cabaret means a night club, bar, restaurant, or similar commercial
establishment not subject to regulation in accordance with Chapter 58, Article
VI of the Code of Ordinances and which regularly features:
   (1)   persons who appear in a state of nudity; or
   (2)   live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
   (3)   films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic
reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or description of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
Adult motel means a hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which:
   (1)   offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, film, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the
public right-of-way which advertises the availability of this adult type of
photographic reproductions; or
   (2)   offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten hours; or
   (3)   allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the room
for a period of time that is less than ten hours.
   Adult motion picture theater means a commercial establishment where for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown and are characterized by
the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
   Adult tanning salon means a commercial establishment which provides
facilities for tanning the human skin, such as tanning beds, suntan lights, or
other similar facilities, and regularly features for the entertainment of its
clientele:
   (1)   persons who appear in a state of nudity; or
   (2)   live performances or style shows of lingerie performed by persons who
appear in a state of nudity or which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
   Adult theater means a theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state
of nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities."
   Applicant means a person who must apply for a license by this article.
   Chief of Police means the Chief of Police of the City of Longview or his
designated agent.
   Escort means a person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie, or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   Escort agency means a business association which furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   Establishment means and includes any of the following:
   (1)   the opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a new
business;
   (2)   the conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
   (3)   the addition of any sexually-oriented business to any other existing
sexually-oriented business;
   (4)   the relocation of any sexually-oriented business; or
   (5)   a location and place of business.
   Licensee means a person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-
oriented business has been issued, as well as, the individual listed as an
applicant on the application for a license or a person licensed under this Act.
   Nude modeling studio means any place where a person who appears in a state
of nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration. The term does not
include a place that otherwise meets the definition of the term "nude modeling
studio" if the place is operated by one of the following:
   (1)   a proprietary school licensed by the State of Texas;
   (2)   a college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly
by taxation; or
   (3)   a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   Nudity or a state of nudity means:
   (1)   the appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitalia, pubic region or female breasts; or
   (2)   a state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock, anus,
male genitals, female genitalia, pubic region or areola of the female breast.
   (3)   this definition shall not include a mother in the act of nursing her
child.
   Operates or causes to be operated means to cause to function or to put or
keep in operation. A person may be found to be operating or causing to be
operated a sexually-oriented business whether or not that person is an owner,
part owner, or licensee of the business.
   Person means an individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   Seminude means a state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as, portions
of the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   Sexual encounter center means a business or commercial enterprise that, as
one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration
physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons of the
opposite sex or other activities between male and female persons and/or persons
of the same sex, when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or
seminude.
   Sexually-oriented business means an adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult
video store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult
tanning salon, adult theater, escort agency, nude modeling studio, sexual
encounter center, or other commercial enterprise, the primary business of which
is the offering of a service or the selling, renting or exhibiting, or devices,
or any other items intended to provide sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification to the customer.
   Specified anatomical areas means human genitals in a state of sexual arousal
and includes, without limitation, human male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   Specified sexual activities means and includes any of the following:
   (1)   the fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
   (2)   sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
   (3)   masturbation, actual or simulated; or
   (4)   excretory functions as part of, or in connection with, any of the
activities set forth in (1) through (3) above.
   Transfer of ownership or control of a sexually-oriented business includes
any of the following:
   (1)   the sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   (2)   the transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   (3)   the establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of the law upon the death of the person
possessing the ownership or control.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94; Ord. No. 3018, § 2, 3, 3-22-01)
Sec. 58-116. Classification.
Sexually-oriented businesses are classified as follows:
(1)   adult arcades;
(2)   adult bookstores or adult video stores;
(3)   adult cabarets;
(4)   adult motels;
(5)   adult motion picture theaters;
(6)   adult tanning salons;
(7)   adult theaters;
(8)   escort agencies;
(9)   nude modeling studios; and
(10)   sexual encounter centers.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-117. License required and duties of applicant.
(a)   The following are required to be licensed:
   (1)   all owners, clerks, and employees of a sexually-oriented business are
required to be licensed to operate or work in said business. The term
"employees" includes persons who work in a sexually-oriented business for
gratuities or other compensation, and do not earn wages or a salary.
   (2)   all corporations or directors of corporations of any sexually-oriented
business and their employees.
   (3)   all partners in any sexually-oriented business and their employees.
   (4)   all executive officers, corporations, partners, and lien holders and
their employees which are associated with any sexually-oriented business
requiring a license under this article.
(b)   No person shall work for any sexually-oriented business without having at
all times while at work, a valid current Texas driver's license or a state-
issued identification card which depicts a picture of the person and indicates
the person's date of birth.
(c)   All potential employees and/or clerks of sexually-oriented businesses
must comply with Sections 58-117(a), (b), (c), (h); 58-119(b); 58-120; 58-121;
58-122; 58-123; 58-126 of this article; and not be in violation of Section 58-
118(a) (1), (3), (4), (6), (8), or (10) of this article before being issued an
identification card to work at the business. Application forms will be provided
by the Chief of Police and the determination of compliance must be made by the
Chief of Police within thirty (30) days from time of application.
(d)   An application for a sexually-oriented business license must be made on a
form provided by the Chief of Police. The application must be accompanied by a
sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises, including a
statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram
need not be professionally prepared, but must be drawn to a designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus six inches. Applicants who must comply with Section 58-134 of
this article shall submit a diagram meeting the requirements of Section 58-134.
All locational requirements must be approved by the Chief of Police within 30
days from the time the application is filed. In addition to any other required
information, an application for a sexually-oriented business license must also
include the name, address, and telephone number of (1) each person not included
in subsection (a) of this section who provided money or materials (including
without limitations gifts, loans, or other forms of capital) for the
establishment of the sexually-oriented business and (2) each person not
included in subsection (a) of this section who will regularly receive income
from the sexually-oriented business, other than a vendor from whom the
sexually-oriented business purchases merchandise. Each application from an
owner, part owner, or partner in the sexually-oriented business shall include
an affidavit executed by the applicant stating that the applicant is aware of
the requirements of Section 58-138 of this article and that the business is in
compliance with said requirements.
(e)   The applicant for a sexually-oriented business license must be qualified
according to the provisions of this article.
(f)   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is an
individual, such person must sign the application for a license as applicant.
If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business is other than an
individual, each individual who has an interest in the business must sign the
application for a license as applicant and shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted.
(g)   The fact that a person possesses any other valid license required by law
does not exempt that person from the requirement of obtaining a sexually-
oriented business license. A person who operates a sexually-oriented business
and possesses another business license shall comply with the requirements and
provisions of this article, as well as the requirements and provisions of the
laws concerning the other license.
(h)   Each applicant shall attach two copies of a recent photo to the
application form.
(i)   The application shall be accompanied by the following:
   (1)   payment of the application fee in full;
   (2)   if the establishment is a Texas corporation, a certified copy of the
articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto;
   (3)   if the establishment is a foreign corporation, a certified copy of the
certificate of authority to transact business in this state, together with all
amendments thereto;
   (4)   if the establishment is a limited partnership formed under the laws of
Texas, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership, together
with all amendments thereto;
   (5)   if the establishment is a foreign limited partnership, a certified
copy of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents,
together with all amendments thereto.
(j)   Each applicant for a business license shall, upon the filing of the
application and payment of the filing fee, place signs (at least 24 inches by
36 inches in size) which provide notification and information specifically
stating "SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS LICENSE APPLICATION PENDING" and the date
on which the application was filed. All lettering on the signs must be at least
1 1/2 inches by two inches in size for each letter on the sign. The signs must
be of sufficient quantities to be placed upon the property so as to identify it
as being subject to a proposed sexually-oriented license. It shall be the duty
of each applicant as to each particular application to erect said signs along
all the property's public road or highway frontage so as to be clearly visible
from the public road or highway. If a property does not have a public road or
highway frontage, then signs shall be placed upon the property in a manner to
maximize the view of said sign when approached from the customary means of
approaching the property. One sign shall be erected for each 300 foot increment
of each public road or highway frontage on said property existing, or any part
thereof. Said signs shall be erected not less than 14 days after the filing of
the application for the sexually-oriented business license and remain erected
until the application has been approved by the Chief of Police.
(k)   Every applicant for a sexually-oriented business license shall give
notice of the application by publication at the applicant's expense in two
consecutive issues of a newspaper of general circulation published in the city.
The notice shall be printed in ten-point boldface type and shall include the
following:
   (1)   the fact that an application for a sexually-oriented business license
has been filed with the city;
   (2)   the exact location of the place of business for which the permit is
sought;
   (3)   the names of each owner of the business and, if the business is
operated under an assumed name, the trade name together with the names of all
owners; and
   (4)   if the applicant is a corporation, the names and titles of all
officers.
   Such notice shall be printed not less than 14 days after the application is
filed with the Chief of Police.
(l)   An applicant for a renewal permit on an existing business at the time of
the passage of this article is not required to publish notice or meet the
posting requirements of (j) and (k) above.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94; Ord. No. 3018, §§ 4, 5, 3-22-01)
Sec. 58-118. Issuance of license.
(a)   The Chief of Police of the city shall approve the issuance of a license
to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of an application unless the Chief
of Police finds one or more of the following to be true:
   (1)   an applicant is under 18 years of age.
   (2)   an applicant or an applicant's spouse is overdue in the payment to the
city of: taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed upon the
applicant or the applicant's spouse in relation to a sexually-oriented
business. The city Finance Director shall make this determination and report
the Director's findings to the Chief of Police within 30 days from the time the
application is filed.
   (3)   an applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
   (4)   an applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a
violation of a provision of this article, other than the offense of operating a
sexually-oriented business without a license, within two years immediately
preceding the application. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall
have no effect. The Chief of Police shall make this determination within 30
days from the time the application is filed.
   (5)   the premises to be used for the sexually-oriented business have not
been approved by the Chief of Police as being in compliance with this article.
Reports of compliance or noncompliance with this article must be completed by
the Chief of Police within 30 days from the time the application is filed.
   (6)   the license fee required by this article has not been paid.
   (7)   an applicant has failed to comply with the requirements of Section 58-
117(i), (j), or (k) unless exempt under Section 58-117(l).
   (8)   an applicant has been employed in a sexually-oriented business in a
managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months, and has demonstrated an
inability to operate or manage a sexually-oriented business premises in a
peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law enforcement
officers.
   (9)   an applicant or the proposed establishment is in violation of, or is
not in compliance with, Sections 58-120, 58-121, 58-126, 58-127, 58-128, 58-
129, 58-130, 58-131, 58-132, 58-133, 58-134, or 58-135.
   (10)   an applicant or an applicant's spouse has been convicted of a crime:
      a.   involving:
         1.   any of the following offenses as described in Chapter 43 of the
Texas Penal Code:
            i.   prostitution;
            ii.   promotion of prostitution;
            iii.   aggravated promotion of prostitution;
            iv.   compelling prostitution;
            v.   obscenity;
            vi.   sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a
minor;
            vii.   sexual performance by a child;
            viii.   possession of child pornography;
         2.   any of the following offenses as described in Chapter 21 of the
Texas Penal Code:
            i.   public lewdness;
            ii.   indecent exposure;
            iii.   indecency with a child;
         3.   sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault as described in
Chapter 22 of the Texas Penal Code;
         4.   incest, solicitation of a child, or harboring a runaway child as
described in Chapter 25 of the Texas Penal Code;
         5.   criminal attempt, conspiracy, or solicitation to commit any of
the foregoing offenses;
      b.   for which:
         1.   less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction, or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         2.   less than five years have elapsed since the date of conviction,
or the date of release from confinement for the conviction, whichever is the
later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense; or
         3.   less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction, or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the convictions are of two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24 month
period.
(b)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
disqualification of the applicant or applicant's spouse.
(c)   An applicant who has been convicted or whose spouse has been convicted of
an offense listed in subsection 58-118(a)(10) may qualify for a sexually-
oriented license only when the time period required by subsection 58-118(a)
(10)b. has elapsed.
(d)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the
sexually-oriented business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that it may be
easily read at any time.
(e)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to report to the applicant
the findings under Section 58-118 within 30 days from the time the application
is filed.
(f)   No license shall be issued if the applicant is in violation of any health
and safety statutes of the State of Texas or health and safety ordinances of
the City of Longview.
(g)   Any sexually-oriented business which is in operation on the effective
date of this article shall have 60 days within which time to file an
application with the Chief of Police. During the 30 day period as described in
Section 58-118(a) said applicant who was in business on the effective date of
this article cannot otherwise be regulated by this article.
(h)   If the Chief of Police fails to act upon an application within the 30 day
period specified in this article, the applicant shall be entitled to the
issuance of a temporary license upon written demand thereto to the Chief of
Police by the applicant. Such a temporary license shall be valid only until the
third day after the Chief of Police issues the requested license or denies
issuance of same. Denial of a license shall be appealable as set out in Section
58-125 of this article.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-119. Fees.
(a)   The annual fee for a sexually-oriented business license shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
(b)   Each employee of a sexually-oriented business shall pay an annual fee
with each application. Said annual fee shall be set by resolution of City
Council.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94; Ord No. 3656 § 6, 9-10-09)
Sec. 58-120. Violations.
(a)   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to own or operate
a sexually-oriented business at a location inside the corporate limits of the
city unless the sexually-oriented business possesses a valid license issued by
the Chief of Police in accordance with the terms of this article.
(b)   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to be employed at
or work at a sexually-oriented business at a location inside the corporate
limits of the city unless the person shall possess a valid license issued by
the Chief of Police in accordance with the terms of this article. This includes
individuals who work for gratuities or other compensation but may not earn
wages or a salary.
(c)   It shall be a violation of this article for any person to employ, in a
sexually-oriented business at a location inside the corporate limits of the
city a person under the age of 18 years. This includes individuals who work for
gratuities or other compensation but may not earn wages or a salary.
(d)   It shall be a violation of this article for a person under the age of 18
years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business. It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection if the
person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to public view or persons of
the opposite sex.
(e)   It shall be a violation of this article for a person to knowingly allow a
person under the age of 18 years to appear in a state of nudity in or on the
premises of a sexually-oriented business. It is a defense to prosecution under
this subsection if the person under 18 years was in a restroom not open to
public view or persons of the opposite sex.
(f)   It shall be a violation of this article for a person to appear in a state
of nudity in an area of a sexually-oriented business which can be viewed from
the public right-of-way.
(g)   It shall be a violation of this article for an employee of a sexually-
oriented business who appears in a state of nudity or seminude to fondle or
caress any patron or clientele of the sexually-oriented business, and it shall
be unlawful for any patron or clientele of any sexually-oriented business to
fondle or caress any employee of a sexually-oriented business who appears in a
state of nudity or seminude.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-121. Inspection.
(a)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the Longview
police department to inspect the premises of a sexually-oriented business for
the purpose of insuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
(b)   A person who operates a sexually-oriented business or his agent or
employee commits an offense if he refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the
premises by a representative of the Longview police department at any time it
is occupied or open for business.
(c)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitat.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-122. License - Expiration.
Each license shall expire one year from the date of issuance and may be renewed
only by making application as provided in Section 58-117. Application for
renewal should be made at least 30 days before the expiration date, and when
made less than 30 days before the expiration date, the expiration of the
license will not be affected.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-123. Same - Suspension.
The Chief of Police shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed 30 days
if the Chief of Police determines that a licensee has:
(1)   violated or is not in compliance with any portion of this article;
(2)   engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages while on the sexually-
oriented business premises;
(3)   refused to allow an inspection of the sexually-oriented business premises
as authorized by this article;
(4)   knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the sexually-oriented
business premises;
(5)   demonstrated inability to operate or manage a sexually-oriented business
in a peaceful and law-abiding manner thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-124. Same - Revocation.
(a)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
Section 58-123 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding
12 months.
(b)   The Chief of Police shall revoke a license if the Chief of Police
determines that:
   (1)   a licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the Chief of Police during the application process;
   (2)   a licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
   (3)   a licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
   (4)   a licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually-oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
   (5)   a licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in Section 58-118
(a)(10)a. for which the time period required in Section 58-118(a)(10)b. has not
elapsed;
   (6)   on two or more occasions within a 12 month period, a person or persons
committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a crime listed
in Section 58-118(a)(10)a., for which a conviction has been obtained, and the
person or persons were employees of the sexually-oriented business at the time
the offenses were committed;
   (7)   a licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual contact to occur
in or on the licensed premises. The term "sexual contact" shall have the same
meaning as it is defined in Section 21.01, Texas Penal Code;
   (8)   a licensee is delinquent in payment to the city for hotel occupancy
taxes, ad valorem taxes, or sales taxes related to the sexually-oriented
business; or
   (9)   a licensee has violated a health and/or safety statute or ordinance as
listed in Section 58-118(f).
(c)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the
revocation of the license.
(d)   Subsection (b)(7) hereunder does not apply to adult motels as a grounds
for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly allowed the
act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or sexual
contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
(e)   When the Chief of Police revokes a license, the revocation shall continue
for one year and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually-oriented business
license for one year from the date revocation became effective. If, subsequent
to revocation, the Chief of Police finds that the basis for the revocation has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least 90
days have elapsed since the date the revocation became effective. If the
license was revoked under subsection (b)(5) hereunder, an applicant may not be
granted another license until the appropriate number of years required under
Section 58-118(a)(10)b. has elapsed.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-125. Appeal.
If the Chief of Police denies the issuance of a license, or suspends or revokes
a license, the Chief of Police shall send to the applicant, or licensee, by
certified mail, return receipt requested, written notice of the action, a
statement of facts with supporting documentation which formed the basis for the
decision, and notice of the right to an appeal. The aggrieved party may appeal
the decision of the Chief of Police to a state district court of appropriate
jurisdiction. An appeal to the state district court must be filed within 30
days after the receipt of notice of the decision of the Chief of Police. Filing
an appeal in a district court stays the Chief of Police in suspending or
revoking a license until the district court makes a final decision. All
decisions of the Chief of Police not appealed become final and unappealable
within 30 days. The applicant or licensee shall bear the burden of proof in
court.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-126. Transfer of license.
A licensee shall not transfer the license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate a sexually-oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-127. Additional regulations for adult cabarets.
(a)   Any dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur on a platform which is raised at least two feet
from the level of the floor.
(b)   No dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron or clientele.
(c)   No patron or clientele shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any
person, employee or otherwise, who shall dance or participate in any show,
exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(d)   No person, employee or otherwise, shall solicit or accept any gratuity
from any patron or clientele in return for dancing or participating in any
show, exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(e)   A minimum of two signs at least 18 inches square bearing red letters a
minimum of two inches high on a white background shall be prominently displayed
in locations readily observed by patrons or clientele providing the following
notice:
   "GRATUITIES FOR PERFORMERS ARE PROHIBITED BY LAW. (Cite in smaller letters
the applicable ordinance provision)"
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-128. Additional regulations for adult motels.
(a)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel or similar commercial
establishment has been rented and vacated two or more times in a period of time
that is less than ten hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
establishment is an adult motel as that term is defined in this article.
(b)   A person commits an offense if, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial establishment that does not have
a sexually-oriented business license, he or she rents or sub-rents a sleeping
room to a person and within ten hours from the time the room is rented, he or
she rents or sub-rents the same sleeping room again.
(c)   For purposes of subsection (b) of this section, the terms "rent" and
"sub-rent" mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-129. Additional regulations for adult tanning salons.
(a)   Any dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur on a platform which is raised at least two feet
from the level of the floor.
(b)   No dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron or clientele.
(c)   No patron or clientele shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any
person, employee or otherwise, who shall dance or participate in any show,
exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(d)   No person, employee or otherwise, shall solicit or accept any gratuity
from any patron or clientele in return for dancing or participating in any
show, exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(e)   A minimum of two signs at least 18 inches square bearing red letters a
minimum of two inches high on a white background shall be prominently displayed
in locations readily observed by patrons or clientele providing the following
notice:
   "GRATUITIES FOR PERFORMERS ARE PROHIBITED BY LAW. (Cite in smaller letters
the applicable ordinance provision)"
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-130. Additional regulations for adult theaters.
(a)   Any dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur on a platform which is raised at least two feet
from the level of the floor.
(b)   No dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron or clientele.
(c)   No patron or clientele shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any
person, employee or otherwise, who shall dance or participate in any show,
exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(d)   No person, employee or otherwise, shall solicit or accept any gratuity
from any patron or clientele in return for dancing or participating in any
show, exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(e)   A minimum of two signs at least 18 inches square bearing red letters a
minimum of two inches high on a white background shall be prominently displayed
in locations readily observed by patrons or clientele providing the following
notice:
   "GRATUITIES FOR PERFORMERS ARE PROHIBITED BY LAW. (Cite in smaller letters
the applicable ordinance provision)"
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-131. Additional regulations for escort agencies.
A person commits an offense if he or she acts as an escort or agrees to act as
an escort for any person under the age of 18 years of age.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-132. Additional regulations for nude modeling studios.
(a)   A nude modeling studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(b)   Any dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur on a platform which is raised at least two feet
from the level of the floor.
(c)   No dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron or clientele.
(d)   No patron or clientele shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any
person, employee or otherwise, who shall dance or participate in any show,
exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(e)   No person, employee or otherwise, shall solicit or accept any gratuity
from any patron or clientele in return for dancing or participating in any
show, exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(f)   A minimum of two signs at least 18 inches square bearing red letters a
minimum of two inches high on a white background shall be prominently displayed
in locations readily observed by patrons or clientele providing the following
notice:
   "GRATUITIES FOR PERFORMERS ARE PROHIBITED BY LAW. (Cite in smaller letters
the applicable ordinance provision)"
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-133. Additional regulations for sexual encounter centers.
(a)   Any dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur on a platform which is raised at least two feet
from the level of the floor.
(b)   No dance, performance, exhibition or show by an employee in a state of
nudity or seminude shall occur closer than ten feet to any patron or clientele.
(c)   No patron or clientele shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any
person, employee or otherwise, who shall dance or participate in any show,
exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(d)   No person, employee or otherwise, shall solicit or accept any gratuity
from any patron or clientele in return for dancing or participating in any
show, exhibition or performance while in a state of nudity or seminude.
(e)   A minimum of two signs at least 18 inches square bearing red letters a
minimum of two inches high on a white background shall be prominently displayed
in locations readily observed by patrons or clientele providing the following
notice:
   "GRATUITIES FOR PERFORMERS ARE PROHIBITED BY LAW. (Cite in smaller letters
the applicable ordinance provision)"
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-134. Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually-explicit films or
videos.
(a)   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video
cassette, or other video reproduction which depicts specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
   (1)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of one or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which persons will not be permitted. A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area. The diagram shall also designate the place
at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if granted. A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches. The Chief of Police may waive the foregoing diagram for renewal
applications, if the applicant adopts a diagram that was previously submitted
and certifies that the configuration of the premises has not been altered since
it was prepared.
   (2)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (3)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
may be made without the prior approval of the Chief of Police or a designee of
the Chief of Police.
   (4)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least one employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (5)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms. Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment. If the
premises has two or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of
the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least one of the manager's stations. The view required in
this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
Viewing booths must be separated at least 12 inches from the exterior walls of
any other view booths by open space.
   (6)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that
the area specified in subsection (a)(5) hereunder remains unobstructed by any
doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times that
any patron is present in the premises, and to ensure that no patron is
permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an
area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application filed pursuant
to subsection (a)(1) of this section.
   (7)   For safety purposes, the premises shall be equipped with overhead
lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which
patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-
candle as measured at the floor level.
   (8)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
(b)   A person having a duty under subsections (1) through (8) of subsection
(a) above, commits an offense if he or she knowingly fails to fulfill that
duty.
(c)   All locational requirements of this section must be approved by the Chief
of Police within 30 days from the time the application is filed.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-135. Display of sexually-explicit material to minors.
(a)   A person commits an offense if, in a sexually-oriented business
establishment open to persons under the age of 17 years, he or she displays a
book, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, film, or video cassette, the cover of
which depicts, in a manner calculated to arouse sexual lust or passion for
commercial gain, any of the following:
   (1)   human sexual intercourse, masturbation, or sodomy;
   (2)   fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breasts;
   (3)   less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, buttocks, or
that portion of the female breast below the top of the areola; or
   (4)   human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, whether covered or
uncovered.
(b)   In this section "display" means to locate an item in such a manner that,
without obtaining assistance from an employee of the business establishment:
   (1)   it is available to the general public for handling and inspection; or
   (2)   the cover or outside packaging on the item is visible to members of
the general public.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-136. Defenses.
(a)   It is a defense to prosecution under Sections 58-117(a) or 58-132(a),
(b), or (c) that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling
class operated:
   (1)   by a proprietary school licensed by the State of Texas; a college, or
university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
   (2)   by a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferrable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   (3)   in a structure:
      a.   which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a nude person is available for viewing; and
      b.   where in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three days in advance of the class; and
      c.   where no more than one nude model is on the premises at any one
time.
(b)   It is a defense to prosecution under Section 58-120(a) that each item of
descriptive, printed, film, or video material offered for sale or rental, taken
as a whole, contains serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific
value.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-137. Enforcement.
(a)   A person commits an offense if the person violates any provision or term
of this article. An offense for violating this article is a Class A
misdemeanor.
(b)   The city may sue in district court for an injunction to prohibit the
violation of any term or provision of this article. The City Attorney is hereby
authorized to undertake such litigation without further approval by the City
Council of the city.
(Ord. No. 2414, 8-11-94)
Sec. 58-138. Distance separation required.
(a)   A person commits an offense if the person operates or causes to be
operated a sexually-oriented business within 1,000 feet of a church, a public
or private elementary or secondary school, a licensed child daycare facility, a
residential dwelling unit in which one or more persons maintain a residence, a
public park, a hospital, or another sexually-oriented business.
(b)   For purposes of this section, distances shall be measured in a straight
line, without regard to intervening structures or objects. Distance shall be
measured from the building used by the sexually-oriented business to the
nearest portion of the building used by another sexually-oriented business.
With regard to the other structures or properties listed in subsection (a),
distance shall be measured from the building used by the sexually-oriented
business to the nearest property line of the premises of the church, public or
private elementary or secondary school, licensed child day care facility,
residential dwelling unit, public park, or hospital.
(c)   For purposes of this section, the term "residential dwelling unit" shall
mean a "one-family dwelling," "two-family dwelling," or "multiple-family
dwelling," as defined in the city zoning ordinance (Ordinance No. 96 of the
city as amended).
(Ord. No. 3018, § 6, 3-22-01)
Sec. 58-139-58-149. Reserved
Article VIII.
Sleeping Outside on Private Property
Sec. 58-150 . Definitions.
The following definitions shall apply to this article:
   Property owner means a person who owns a real property interest in a tract
of land.
   Property owner's agent means a person, other than a property owner, who has
the authority to authorize entrance upon or use of a tract of land. The term
icludes, without limitation, a lessee, resident, manager, supervisor, foreman,
security guard, or other person having the requisite authority to exclude
persons from the property.
   Permanent structure means a building enclosed on all sides and intended to
remain at the location, but not including a lean-to or other area connected to
a building which is not enclosed on all sides. The term does not include a
semi-permanent structure such as a tent, tarpaulin, or other covering that is
designed or adapted to be manually moved or disassembled.
(Ord. No. 4495, § 2, 5-23-24)
Sec. 58-151. Sleeping outside a permanent structure prohibited.
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly occupy a location outside of a
permanent structure for the purpose of sleeping unless the sleeping occurs:
   1. with permission of the property owner or property owner's agent,
   2. for recreational purposes only,
   3. in a location that is not readily visible from a public right-of-way or
other public property,
   4. in a location that does not obstruct entrance or exit into a permanent
structure on the property, including movement of any patron to a business open
to the public or a segment of the public as necessary for compliance with The
Americans with Disability Act, the Texas Human Resources Code Chapter 121, or
other local, state or federal law,
   5. between the hours of 8:00 pm and 8:00 am, and
   6. on a property on which is located a permanent structure that is
accessible to the person, during the entire time of sleeping, for the purpose
of providing restroom facilities inside of the structure and interior shelter
during inclement weather.
(Ord. No. 4495, §2, 5-23-24)
Sec. 58-152. Allowing or encouraging sleeping outside a permanent structure
prohibited.
   (a) It is unlawful for a property owner or a property owner's agent to allow
or encourage another to sleep on the property outside of a permanent structure
in violation of Sec. 58-151 of this Code.
   (b) It is unlawful for a property owner or property owner's agent to allow
or encourage another to sleep outside of a permanent structure on the property
when the permanent structure is not able to accommodate the number of persons
sleeping outside of the structure for the purpose of providing restroom
facilities or shelter from inclement weather, whether such inability to
accommodate is due to inadequate space, lack of access to the structure,
certificate of occupancy restrictions, or other reason.
   (c) It is unlawful for a property owner's agent to allow or encourage a
person to sleep outside of a permanent structure on the property if the
property owner's agent has received written notice from the property owner that
the property owner does not grant permission to a person to sleep outside of a
permanent structure on the property due to the property owner's concerns for
the health and safety of the person or the property owner's interest in
protecting and maintaining the property.
(Ord. No. 4495, §2, 5-23-24)
Sec. 58-153. Penalty for violations.
A violation of this article is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to
$2000.00. Each day or portion of a day that a violation continues constitutes a
separate offense. For the purposes of Section 58-152 of this article, each
person allowed or encouraged to sleep on the property constitutes a separate
offense.
(Ord. No. 4495, §2, 5-23-24)
Chapters 59 - 60
Reserved
Chapter 61
Oil and Gas Wells
Article I. General Provisions Applying to All Wells
Sec.
61-1.   Definitions.
Sec.
61-2.   Oil and gas inspector designated.
Sec.
61-3.   Compliance with all federal and state law requirements.
Sec.
61-4.   Permit required.
Sec.
61-5.   Location in or obstruction of streets.
Sec.
61-6.   Premises to be kept clean and sanitary.
Sec.
61-7.   Watchman.
Sec.
61-8.   Noise regulations.
Sec.
61-9.   Pits.
Sec.
61-10.   Fence required upon completion.
Sec.
61-11.   Maintenance of drill site and roads.
Sec.
61-12.   Flaring and burning of escaping gas.
Sec.
61-13.   Venting.
Sec.
61-14.   Inventory of hazardous chemicals on drilling sites.
Sec.
61-15.   Emergency answering service required 24 hours a day; posted emergency
number.
Sec.
61-16.   Shutoff valve or switch.
Sec.
61-17.   Keyed lock to well site.
Secs.
61-18 - 61-29. Reserved.
Article II. General Provisions Applying to All Permit Applications
Sec.
61-30.   Notice of drilling application.
Sec.
61-31.   Application and filing fee.
Sec.
61-32.   Location of well near residence or commercial buildings; permission of
adjacent owners; waivers.
Sec.
61-33.   Security required.
Sec.
61-34.   Insurance required prior to drilling.
Sec.
61-35.   Notification of issuance.
Sec.
61-36.   Permit term.
Sec.
61-37.   Completion of well.
Sec.
61-38.   Refusal or withdrawal of permit; processing fee.
Sec.
61-39.   Transfer of permit.
Sec.
61-40.   Termination.
Sec.
61-41.   Supplemental permit for deepening well.
Secs.
61-42 - 61-49. Reserved.
Article III. Level A Permit
Sec.
61-50.   Permit defined.
Sec.
61-51.   Application requirements.
Sec.
61-52.   Permitting procedure.
Sec.
61-53.   Permit conditions.
Sec.
61-54.   Appeal by the permit applicant.
Secs.
61-55 - 61-59.  Reserved.
Article IV. Level B Permit
Sec.
61-60.   Permit defined.
Sec.
61-61.   Application requirements.
Sec.
61-62.   Permitting procedure.
Sec.
61-63.   Permit conditions.
Sec.
61-64.   Appeal by the permit applicant.
Secs.
61-65 - 61-69.  Reserved.
Article V. Level C Permit
Sec.
61-70.   Permit defined.
Sec.
61-71.   Application requirements.
Sec.
61-72.   Permitting procedure.
Sec.
61-73.   Permit conditions.
Secs.
61-74 - 61-79.  Reserved.
Article VI. Requirements for Operating Wells
Sec.
61-80.   Permit required.
Sec.
61-81.   Application requirements.
Sec.
61-82.   Annual fee.
Sec.
61-83.   Inspections authorized.
Sec.
61-84.   Minimum safety requirements.
Sec.
61-85.   Notice to the oil and gas inspector.
Secs.
61-86 - 61-89. Reserved.
Article VII. Compliance
Sec.
61-90.   Use of security.
Sec.
61-91.   Revocation or suspension.
Sec.
61-92.   Penalties.
Sec.
61-93.   Enforcement.
Article I.
General Provisions Applying to All Wells
Sec. 61-1. Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter the following words and terms shall have the
scope and meaning hereinafter defined and set out in connection with each:
   City block. A "city block" is designated and described as a city section,
square or rectangular, whether vacant or built upon, and completely surrounded
by streets, or otherwise designated and shown upon the plat or map of the city
as a regularly constituted block, comprising a unit within itself, unattached
to other property.
   Completion or completion date. "Completion" or "completion date" shall mean
that test date shown in those forms required by the Texas Railroad Commission
to indicate that all well drilling activities are complete and the well is
ready for production as the prerequisite to receiving an allowable from the
Texas Railroad Commission.
   Lease. The word "lease" shall mean any tract of land subject to an oil, gas
and mineral lease or other oil and gas development contract, or any unit
composed of several tracts and leases but operated as one lease, and any tract
of land in which the minerals are owned by an operator or someone holding it
for him, but which, due to the fee royalty ownership, is developed and operated
as a separate tract.
   Minimum site plan. A site plan and map accompanying each permit application
that includes as a minimum the following information:
   (1)   the proposed wellhead location, graphically displayed;
   (2)   the proposed access route, from the proposed wellhead to the public
thoroughfare proposed for access;
   (3)   the probable location of all pits;
   (4)   the probable pipeline route;
   (5)   the probable location of any separator, tank, or other similar
equipment;
   (6)   the approximate size and shape of the well site (footprint).
   Permit. The word "permit" shall, depending on the context of its use, mean a
Level A, Level B, or Level C drilling permit required to be issued under this
ordinance as a prerequisite to beginning oil or gas drilling activity in the
city limits of the city or an annual operating permit for an operating oil or
gas well.
   Permittee. The word "permittee" shall mean the person to whom a permit is
issued for the drilling and operation of a well under this chapter, that
person's administrators, executors, heirs, successors, and assigns.
   Person. The word "person" shall include both the singular and the plural,
and shall mean and include any person, individual, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, club, society, cooperative, trust, municipal
corporation or political subdivision whatsoever.
   Technical words or phrases. All "technical" oil and gas industry words or
phrases used in this chapter and not specifically defined herein shall have
that meaning customarily attributable thereto by prudent operators in the oil
and gas industry.
   Well. The word "well" shall include and mean any hole or holes, bore or
bores, to any sand, formation, strata or depth for the purpose of producing and
recovering any oil, gas, liquid hydrocarbon, or any of them.
   Wellhead. The word "wellhead" for the purposes of this chapter shall mean
the exact center of the location where the driller inserts the drill bit for
purposes of drilling the well; the wellhead for the purposes of this chapter
shall also be known as the "hole."
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-2. Oil and gas inspector designated.
The City Engineer is hereby designated oil and gas inspector and shall enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-3. Compliance with all federal and state law requirements.
Each permittee under this article, or owner or operator of any oil or gas well
in the city limits of the city shall conduct all drilling and operating
activities of said oil or gas well in full and complete compliance with any and
all applicable state or federal laws, rules, regulations, or other
requirements.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-4. Permit required.
It shall be unlawful for any person, acting either for himself or acting as
agent, employee, independent contractor or servant of any other person, to
commence to drill or to operate any well within the city limits of the city
without conducting such activity in full and complete compliance with the terms
and provisions of this chapter, including the requirement for a permit for the
drilling and operation of such well having first been issued in accordance with
the terms and provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-5. Location in or obstruction of streets.
No well shall be drilled and no permit shall be issued for any well to be
drilled at any location which is within any of the streets or alleys of the
city. No street or alley shall be blocked or encumbered or closed in any
drilling or production operation, except by special order of the City Council
of the city and then only on a temporary basis as shall be stipulated by the
City Council.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-6. Premises to be kept clean and sanitary.
The premises of every well should be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
free from rubbish of every character, to the satisfaction of the oil and gas
inspector and the city health officer, at all times drilling operations or
reworking operations are being conducted and as long thereafter as oil and/or
gas is or may be produced therefrom. This requirement shall also apply to
temporarily abandoned or shut-in wells. Compliance with sanitation requirements
shall include locating on the immediate drill site temporary bathroom
facilities for the use of all personnel working at the drilling site.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-7. Watchman.
If required by the oil and gas inspector the permittee shall maintain a
watchman or shall have other personnel on duty on the premises at all times,
such that the premises shall never be without the direct visual observation and
supervision of an individual designated with such authority, or at such times
as the oil and gas inspector shall require. It shall not be necessary to keep
an extra watchman on duty on the premises when other workmen of permittee are
on the premises.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-8. Noise regulations.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated
in connection with the drilling, completing, equipping, or abandoning of a well
any engine, compressor or motor-driven machinery of any type which creates a
sound level greater than 72 dB(a) when measured at a distance of 300 feet from
the engine or measured immediately adjacent to any inhabited building not used
in the drilling operation and located within the 300 foot distance; provided,
however, a maximum sound level of 80 dB(a) shall apply to fracing operations in
connection with a well, and such fracing operations shall be conducted only
during the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated
in connection with the operation of a producing well any engine, compressor or
motor-driven machinery of any type which creates a sound level greater than 65
dB(a) when measured at a distance of 300 feet from the engine or measured
immediately adjacent to any inhabited building located within the 300 foot
distance.
(c)   Motor power for all operations after completion of drilling operations
shall be by electricity or properly muffled gas or diesel engines. The muffler
shall be approved by the oil and gas inspector prior to use; provided, however,
that specialty mufflers may be required by the oil and gas inspector, such as
hospital zone mufflers, or the engines may be so designed or configured on the
site to further attenuate anticipated noise problems during operation of the
well.
(d)   Sound level measurements shall be made with a sound level meter
conforming as a minimum to the requirements of American National Standards
Institute S1.4-1971 Type 2 or its successor publication and set to an A-
weighted response.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-9. Pits.
The type of pit used in drilling operations shall be determined by the oil and
gas inspector at the time of permitting. The pit and its contents shall be
removed from the premises within 45 days after the completion of the well;
provided, however, that the permittee may apply for a 45-day extension from
such requirements based on a showing of good cause, necessity to maintain said
pit, inclement weather, or other factors. The city may designate a period of
time shorter than the 45-day extension set out herein. Upon completion of use
of earthen pits, such pits shall be filled and leveled in accordance with the
time periods set out herein.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-10. Fence required upon completion.
The owners of each well shall upon completion thereof enclose such well,
together with all surface facilities and storage tanks, with a heavy steel
fence of cyclone type, having a minimum height of six feet with all gates to be
locked except when the permittee or his employees are actually within the
enclosure. However, when the fence is located within an area which is zoned for
single-family residences, duplexes, or apartments, the city may approve the
erection of a fence made of wood or other material if such fence shall be at
least six feet in height. It shall be the responsibility of the permittee to
maintain the fence to the satisfaction of the oil and gas inspector.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-11. Maintenance of drill site and roads.
(a)   The drill site and all roads and drives providing vehicular ingress and
egress to the well site during the drilling process shall be maintained in such
a manner as to prevent dirt, dust, or other similar materials from such roads
and well sites from being carried in or deposited by the elements into the air
or upon any public street, sidewalk or other public property or upon the
property of another person. For wells requiring a Level B or Level C Permit as
provided herein, all access roads from the public right-of-way to the well must
be constructed of suitable materials acceptable to the oil and gas inspector.
(b)   If said well is completed as a producing well and actual production
commences, permittee shall construct and maintain a private road or roads (at
either the same location as the original access road or at a new location
approved in advance by the oil and gas inspector) sufficient to provide
vehicular ingress and egress to the well site from a location along a public
road, the entrance to such public road to be approved by the oil and gas
inspector. Said private road, at a minimum, shall be of a length and
constructed of such material as shall be acceptable to the oil and gas
inspector, such as crushed rock, oil base, or other similar material, and shall
be maintained free of dust, dirt or mud, and in such a manner as to prevent the
deposit therefrom of dirt, dust or other similar material on, along or upon any
public street, sidewalk or other public property, or upon the property of a
third party. That portion of the private roadway located within the right-of-
way of a public street of the city shall comply in every respect to the
construction standards for commercial driveways set forth in Section 91-16, as
amended, of the Code. Such roadways shall be so maintained until said well is
plugged and abandoned.
(c)   Upon completion of said well, or abandonment of same, permittee will
grade, level and restore the drilling site and other affected property in
conformance with the city's drainage control ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-12. Flaring and burning of escaping gas.
Except as otherwise provided herein, no person engaged in drilling or operating
any well shall permit gas to escape or be vented into the air, unless the gas
is flared and burned. All gas flared or burned from a torch, pipe or any other
burning device within the city limits must be done in such manner so as not to
constitute a fire hazard to any property, and the location of the torch, pipe,
or other burning device and the construction, maintenance and operation thereof
shall at all times be in full compliance with such regulations as may be issued
by the Texas Railroad Commission. The Fire Marshal of the city shall be given
24 hours advance notice of any flaring activities, and such notice shall
indicate to the Fire Marshal the exact date and time and anticipated length of
the flaring procedure.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93; Ord. No. 3525, § 33, 6-14-07)
Sec. 61-13. Venting.
As stated previously herein, venting is not permissible in the drilling or
operation of any oil or gas well except as otherwise stated herein. In the
event the driller or operator is required to vent gas to the atmosphere in
order to pump oil, or to maintain safety, or for other acceptable reasons, said
driller or operator is required to request the approval of the city oil and gas
inspector prior to venting. The oil and gas inspector shall investigate the
circumstances necessitating such venting, and shall approve same unless such
venting would present a threat to the health, safety, or welfare of the
citizens of the city or would otherwise be in violation of this ordinance or
state or federal law requirements. Failure to notify and obtain approval from
the city oil and gas inspector prior to venting shall subject violator to
appropriate penalties set out in this ordinance.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-14. Inventory of hazardous chemicals on drilling sites.
Each person owning or operating an oil or gas well in the city limits of the
city shall provide the city fire department a current inventory of hazardous
materials used on said operator or owner's drilling or production-site. All
such hazardous materials located at any drilling or production-site shall have
the appropriate diamond shape and number clearly visible delineating the
material contained therein.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-15. Emergency answering service required 24 hours a day; posted
emergency number.
(a)   Each operator conducting oil and gas activity in the city limits of the
city shall have available and maintain 24 hours a day, 365 days a year a
telephone answering service designed to allow any caller thereon to notify the
operator of observed or perceived problems at the drilling or production-site.
Operators may use a unified answering service provided such service will permit
rapid notification of the operator.
(b)   Each well site shall have posted a sign clearly indicating in letters a
minimum of two inches in height the telephone number of the 24-hour emergency
answering service required herein.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-16. Shutoff valve or switch.
Each producing well located within the city limits of the city shall maintain a
shutoff valve or switch located thereon, clearly painted in a unique
identifiable color approved by the city Fire Marshal’s office, which such valve
or switch shall upon actuation be capable of terminating all production
activity from the well. The city fire department is hereby authorized in its
discretion to actuate said valve or switch and close same in the event of any
emergency.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93; Ord. No. 3525, § 34, 6-14-07)
Sec. 61-17. Keyed lock to well site.
Each permittee shall provide the city Fire Marshal with the opportunity to
install a separately keyed lock or other similar device to allow the city
access to the well site during any emergency.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93; Ord. No. 3525, § 35, 6-14-07)
Secs. 61-18 - 61-29. Reserved.
Article II.
General Provisions Applying to All Permit Applications
 
The following provisions and requirements shall apply to all permits and permit
applications for oil and gas drilling operations in the city limits of the
city.
Sec. 61-30. Notice of drilling application.
(a)   Simultaneous with, or immediately before, the filing of any application
for a permit required by this chapter, the applicant shall post a sign at the
location of the proposed access routes for the well or immediately adjacent to
each entrance to the actual proposed well site, whichever location or locations
shall be more visible. If possible, said sign must be placed in a location
easily visible from any adjacent street or thoroughfare, or if no such location
is available, then at the most highly visible location available. The sign
shall contain lettering a minimum of two inches in height in the following
general format:
   PROPOSED ACCESS/ENTRY POINT
   FOR AN OIL/GAS WELL SITE
   A detailed site map can be reviewed at the City of Longview City Hall, 300
W. Cotton Street. If you have questions or input, call 903.237.1055. Comments
will be received from any interested citizens through ________ (ten days
following the date of filing of the application).
(b)   The processing of the permit application will not begin, nor shall any
time period begin to run, until said sign has been posted by the permit
applicant. Following the filing of the application and the posting of said
sign, interested citizens shall have ten calendar days to make comments to the
oil and gas inspector regarding the proposed application. In addition, all
application materials shall be available for inspection during regular business
hours, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-31. Application and filing fee.
Every application for a permit to drill and operate a well shall be in writing,
signed by the applicant or by some person duly authorized to sign same on the
applicant’s behalf, shall be filed with the City Secretary, and shall be
accompanied with a filing fee set by resolution of the City Council, which fee
shall be paid in cash. Each application shall be a request for a permit to
drill and operate a single well. The application shall include all necessary
information, including but not limited to the following:
(1)   the date of said application.
(2)   the name and address of the applicant, and if the applicant is a
partnership, the names and addresses of the general partners.
(3)   if the applicant is a corporation, the names of the local agent,
president, and chief executive officer of the corporation, name and address of
the agent for service of process of the corporation, and the address of the
local offices and the principal corporate offices.
(4)   the proposed site of the well, including
   a.   the name and address of the fee surface owner(s) of record.
   b.   the name and address of the lease owner(s) of record.
   c.   a brief description of the land.
(5)   a minimum site plan.
(6)   a description of all pits.
(7)   all information necessary to determine what level permit is required for
issuance under this chapter.
(8)   all specific information required as a result of determining the level
permit to be issued. If a Level B or Level C Permit is required, then a plat
prepared by a duly licensed surveyor must be included showing the lots or
tracts on which said well is located, the exact location of the proposed well,
distances from well location to the exterior boundary lines of the tract on
which the well is drilled and the distances from the well location to all
residences, schools, churches, hospitals or commercial buildings situated
within 300 feet of the well location.
(9)   the proposed total depth of the well.
(10)   the proposed type of blowout prevention device and proposed frequency of
testing of such device. Said testing shall be conducted at the frequency
approved by the oil and gas inspector and shall be documented and available for
review by the oil and gas inspector.
(11)   a list of all waivers, including the expiration date of each, required
by Section 61-32.
(12)   any and all other information required by the oil and gas inspector.
(13)   a statement that all information in the application is true and correct.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93; Ord. No. 3242, § 6, 8-29-03)
Sec. 61-32. Location of well near residence or commercial buildings; permission
of adjacent owners; waivers.
(a)   Except as otherwise provided herein, no well shall be drilled and no
permit shall be issued for any well to be drilled at any location which is
within 300 feet of any residence or commercial building, which is permanently
affixed to the realty, without the applicant having first secured the written
permission of the owner or owners of said building. For the purposes of this
article, permission shall not be required from the owners of mobile homes
unless the owner of said mobile home also owns the real property on which the
mobile home is located. Signatures for waivers will be needed from landowners
only; signatures are not required from tenants in said buildings.
(b)   In measuring said 300 feet distance, all measurements will be made from
the proposed wellhead location to the closest load-bearing and supporting wall
structure of each building. All measurements are to be made to those portions
of said buildings which are intended to be habitable or occupied on a full-time
basis; storage sheds, gazebos, covered patios and similar structures that are
not enclosed are not to be considered in making such measurements. All
measurements will be made to the actual wall surface and not to any overhanging
roof eave or similar structure.
(c)   If any property owner denies access to their property for purposes of
determining the distance measurement from the wellhead to the walls of the
property owner's structure, then distances will be determined using
methodologies such as transit and angle measurements or other similar
methodology acceptable to the oil and gas inspector, which such distances shall
be accepted for all purposes under this ordinance as incontestable.
(d)   Any waiver form used to obtain written permission of the property owner
of any building as required herein shall contain, as a minimum, the following
information:
   (1)   the name and address of the property owner;
   (2)   a clear and unequivocal statement that the property owner agrees to
the permitting of the well as reflected by the duly acknowledged signature of
the property owner appearing on said form;
   (3)   a clear and unequivocal statement that the property owner may refuse
to agree to the permitting of the well;
   (4)   a statement of notice to the property owner that by affixing his or
her signature to the document, the property owner agrees to permit the driller
to place the signed document in the chain of title of the property owner and
that such document will in fact be placed in the chain of title of the
property;
   (5)   a statement of notice to the property owner that a permit to drill the
well will not be granted until such time as the applicant complies with all the
terms and provisions of Chapter 61 of the city's Code.
(e)   Any waiver form used to obtain written permission of the owner of any
building as required herein shall be subject to the following conditions to be
effective under this section:
   (1)   the term of the waiver must be stated in the document itself, not to
exceed a maximum term of two years;
   (2)   to satisfy the requirements for issuance of any permit hereunder, the
minimum term of said waiver must be effective for at least the minimum term of
the permit itself as set out in this section, and the permit itself shall be
void at such time as the waiver shall expire;
   (3)   all waivers must be filed of record in the county courthouse to be
effective;
   (4)   each applicant for a permit under this chapter requiring the use of
waivers as described herein shall specify on the permit application the
earliest date of expiration of approved waivers obtained by the applicant.
(f)   The applicant for a permit under this chapter shall approach all of the
owners of the residential and commercial buildings located within 300 feet of
any proposed well and make a good faith bona fide attempt to acquire their
approval on the requisite form as specified herein. In so doing, the applicant
shall provide true and accurate information to the property owner. If the
applicant is successful in obtaining 100 percent of the necessary waivers, the
applicant will be qualified to seek a Level A or B Permit as otherwise
specified herein. If, however, all of the owners of the residences and
commercial buildings located within 300 feet of any proposed well have not
given their written permission, then the applicant will be required to obtain a
Level C Permit as specified herein.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-33. Security required.
(a)   Generally. In the event a permit is approved for issuance by the city
under the terms of this chapter for the drilling and operation of a well, no
actual drilling operation shall be commenced until the permittee shall file
with the City Secretary and maintain in current status sufficient security in
the form of a bond or certificate of deposit approved for form by the City
Attorney, or cash in lieu of the full amount of the bond, in such principal sum
as determined by the City Manager or the City Council, but to be not less than
the aggregate sum of $50,000.00. Any such bond posted as required herein shall
consist of a $5,000.00 cash bond and the remaining $45,000.00 in the form of a
surety bond executed by a reliable insurance company authorized to do business
in the State of Texas as surety, and with the permittee as principle, running
to the city for the benefit of the city and all persons concerned. In lieu of
the surety portion of the bond, any certificate of deposit filed as permitted
herein shall be free of any prior claim or obligation and shall not be pledged
as security for any other purposes save and except as specified herein. In no
instance, however, shall there be less than a $5,000.00 cash bond posted as
part of the total security. Any such bond or other security pledged as required
herein shall be effective on or before the date it is filed with the City
Secretary and remain in force and effect for a period of at least six months
subsequent to the expiration of the term of the permit issued herein.
(b)   Supplemental security.  If the proceeds of the $5,000.00 cash bond or
other security required herein shall be applied to remedy noncompliance as
provided in Section 61-90 of this chapter, the permittee shall be required to
immediately provide additional security of a like kind to maintain at all times
the level of security as required under this chapter. Failure to maintain
security at all times as required under this chapter shall constitute cause for
revocation of permit as provided in Section 61-91 of this chapter.
(c)   Additional security.  If at any time the City Manager or the City Council
shall deem any permittee's bond or other security to be insufficient, the
manager or the City Council may require the permittee to file a new bond or
additional security.
(d)   Conditions of security. Any security filed as required under the
provisions of this section shall be conditioned, on penalty of forfeiture or
partial forfeiture to the city without written notice, on the following:
   (1)   that permittee shall comply with all of the terms and conditions of
this chapter;
   (2)   that permittee shall promptly pay all fines, penalties or other
assessments imposed upon permittee by reason of permittee's breach of any of
the terms, provisions and conditions of this chapter;
   (3)   that permittee shall remedy any and all damage to streets, curbs,
gutters, water lines, fire hydrants and other property of the city, occasioned
in any manner by permittee or its drilling, operation, and abandonment of said
well;
   (4)   that permittee shall promptly fulfill all obligations under this
chapter, and shall conduct the drilling operations in full conformance with the
requirements herein, including, but not limited to, abatement of dust and dirt,
removal of mud from public streets and thoroughfares, watering of non-paved
access roads, timely construction and erection of all fence structures as
required herein, and other similar terms and provisions;
   (5)   that permittee shall promptly clear all premises of all litter, trash,
waste and other substances used, allowed or occurring in the drilling or
producing operations, and shall, after abandonment, grade, level, and restore
said property in conformance with the city's drainage control ordinance;
   (6)   that permittee shall in all things fulfill the requirements of the
site plan, and if required, any reclamation or restoration of the site stated
as a condition of the issuance of the permit;
   (7)   that permittee shall indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and
all liability growing out of or attributable to the granting of this permit or
any of permittee's actions with respect to the drilling, operation, and
abandonment of said well.
(e)   Reduction in principal amount.  If after completion of a well, the
permittee has complied with all the provisions of this chapter, such as
removing the derrick, clearing the premises, etc., the permittee may apply to
the city to have the bond or other security reduced to a sum of not less than
$10,000.00 for the remainder of the time the well produces; provided, however,
that the permittee has met all the requirements of any permit hereunder, has
otherwise acted in full compliance with this chapter, and provided that the
permittee shall submit a bond or certificate of deposit in the correct
principal amount and approved for form by the City Attorney, or cash in lieu
thereof, and otherwise in conformance with the provisions of this section as a
substitute for any other security previously pledged under the provisions of
subsection 61-33(a) herein, save and except that no such substitute shall be
taken for the $5,000.00 cash bond until such time as otherwise specified in
this ordinance. Permittee may provide a blanket bond or certificate of deposit
in the approved form specified herein, or cash in lieu thereof, in the
principal amount of not less than $10,000.00 per well secured by said security,
to a maximum principal amount of said security of $50,000.00, said blanket
security to secure all wells operated by the permittee within the city limits
of the city provided said blanket security is in a form acceptable to the City
Attorney and otherwise conforms with the requirements of this section.
(f)   For each completed well covered by security under this section that
ceases to produce and is subsequently plugged and abandoned in accordance with
the requirements of the Texas Railroad Commission, the security for said well
shall be returned to the principal or in the case of blanket security, said
well shall no longer require such security. To qualify for release of security
as set out herein, the permittee must provide copies of official Texas Railroad
Commission forms verifying the plugging and abandonment of the well and must
remove all surface equipment used in the operation of the well including, but
not limited to, pumps, compressors, storage tanks, and separator tanks.
(g)   Violation of conditions.  It shall be unlawful for the principal of any
bond filed in accordance with this section to violate any condition of such
bond.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-34. Insurance required prior to drilling.
(a)   Generally. In addition to the bond required by Section 61-33, each
permittee, prior to the issuance of the permit and commencement of actual
drilling operations, shall file with the City Secretary a certificate or
certificates of insurance showing that the permittee has in full force and
effect a policy or policies of standard comprehensive public liability
insurance, including contractual liability covering bodily injuries and
property damage, naming the permittee and the city as co-insured, and issued by
an insurance company authorized to do business within the State of Texas. Such
policy or policies, in the aggregate shall provide for the following minimum
coverage:
   (1)   for bodily injury or death, $500,000.00 as to any one person and
$1,000,000.00 as to any one accident.
   (2)   for public liability for damage to property of others, $500,000.00.
(b)   In addition, prior to the issuance of the permit, permittee shall file
with the City Secretary a certificate or certificates of insurance showing that
the permittee has in full force and effect a policy or policies of blowout or
cost of well control insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000.00 for
each well.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-35. Notification of issuance.
Following the issuance of a permit as otherwise provided herein, the applicant
shall place a notification of such issuance in the legal notice section of the
local newspaper with the largest daily circulation in the city. Such
notification shall be published no earlier than three days following the
issuance of the permit and no later than five days following the issuance of
the permit. Said notification shall state with particularity the name of the
permittee; the designated name of the well; the well location, identified by
streets and other readily identifiable landmarks sufficient to inform the
reader as to the exact location of the well; the anticipated date for drilling
activity to begin; and any other specific information required to be published
by the city.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-36. Permit term.
Each permit issued under this ordinance shall be effective for an initial term
of 90 days from the date of issuance; provided, however, that said permit shall
be issued for a shorter period of time co-extensive with the shortest duration
for any waiver required for approval of the permit. Two time extensions of 45
days each may be granted at the end of the original 90 day term, again subject
to a shorter duration for any waiver, and provided the permittee can make a
showing of good cause for the delay as a precondition for approval of any
extension. The City Manager or his duly authorized designee shall determine the
appropriateness of any permit extension. It shall be the responsibility of the
permittee to file any requests for extension at least five days in advance of
the expiration date of the then-outstanding term. At the end of the initial
term, or any extended term not to exceed a total of 180 days, the permit shall
expire and the permittee must reapply for a new permit. Any decision not to
grant a permit extension as provided herein may be appealed by the permittee to
City Council, which such decision shall be final.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-37. Completion of well.
Upon completion of the well, including performance of all production tests
required by the Texas Railroad Commission as a precondition to issuance of a
production allowable, the permittee shall verbally notify the oil and gas
inspector as soon as possible thereafter, and shall formally certify completion
of the well to the city by filing duplicates of Texas Railroad Commission
required completion forms G-1 (gas well) or W-2 (oil well), or their successor
forms, with the city within ten days following the filing of same with the
Texas Railroad Commission.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-38. Refusal or withdrawal of permit; processing fee.
If the permit for the well be refused, or if the applicant notifies the city in
writing that the applicant does not elect to accept the permit as tendered and
wishes to withdraw the application, or if the bond of the applicant be not
approved, or if the applicant notifies the city in writing that the applicant
wishes to withdraw the application, or if following the issuance of the permit,
the permittee determines that drilling of the well is no longer feasible or
possible, and the permittee has undertaken no substantive activity in drilling
the well to date, then upon the happening of one or more of said events the
cash deposit filed by the applicant with the application shall be returned to
the applicant, except there shall be retained therefrom by the city a
processing fee set by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93; Ord. No. 3242, § 7, 8-28-03)
Sec. 61-39. Transfer of permit.
Upon application for transfer of permit duly presented to the oil and gas
inspector, and upon stipulation in writing by the applicant for transfer to
assume all obligations of the current permittee, including satisfactory
security, bonds, and insurance, and upon a showing that the applicant for
transfer would have otherwise been qualified for issuance of the original
permit, a permit may be transferred into the name of a new permittee. A permit
transfer fee, set by resolution of the City Council, must accompany all
applications for a transfer. Transfer of a permit shall not extend the term of
the original permit or affect any other substantive conditions or requirements
therein. If for any reason an application for a transfer is rejected, the same
shall be treated as a request for withdrawal of the permit by the original
permittee unless the cause for rejection is timely cured or unless the original
permittee indicates in writing an intention to complete the well under the
existing permit.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93; Ord. No. 3242, § 8, 8-28-03)
Sec. 61-40. Termination.
When a permit has been issued under this chapter, the same shall terminate and
become inoperative without any action on the part of the city, unless, within
the original term or extended term as set out in Section 61-36 of this chapter,
actual drilling of the well shall have commenced. Thereafter the cessation of
drilling operations shall operate to terminate and cancel the permit, and the
well shall be considered as abandoned for all purposes of this chapter. It
shall be unlawful thereafter to continue the operation or drilling of such well
without the issuance of another permit.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-41. Supplemental permit for deepening well.
Once any well has either been completed as a producer or abandoned as a dry
hole, it shall be unlawful for any person to drill such well to a deeper depth
than that reached in the prior drilling operations without a supplemental
permit after filing a supplemental application with the City Secretary
specifying:
(1)   the then-condition of the well and the casing therein;
(2)   the depth to which it proposed such well be deepened;
(3)   the proposed casing program to be used in connection with the proposed
deepening operation; and
(4)   evidence of adequate current tests showing that the casing strings in the
well meet or exceed all regulatory requirements of the Texas Railroad
Commission.
In the event the oil and gas inspector, and the entity originally approving the
permit, the same being either the City Manager or the City Council, is
satisfied that the well may be deepened with the same degree of safety as
existed in the original well, a supplemental permit may be issued without
additional filing fee to the permittee authorizing the deepening and operation
of the well to such specified depth as applied for. In any deeper drilling or
any deeper completion of any deeper producing operations, the permittee shall
comply with all other provisions contained in this chapter and the original
permit applicable to the drilling, completion, and operation of a well.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Secs. 61-42 - 61-49. Reserved.
Article III.
Level A Permits
Sec. 61-50. Permit defined.
(a)   Upon receipt of a permit application, the oil and gas inspector shall
determine if the application will qualify for a permit issued under this
article.
(b)   A permit issued under this article shall be designated a Level A Permit.
A well must satisfy all of the following criteria to be considered for a Level
A Permit:
   (1)   the proposed well location must be in a primarily rural, open area;
   (2)   the proposed well location must have less than five habitable
structures within a 500 foot distance of the wellhead;
   (3)   the proposed well location shall not be within a 500 foot distance of
any public school or full service hospital;
   (4)   the proposed well location must not be in a city park;
   (5)   the proposed well must not penetrate a potential sour gas formation as
defined by the Texas Railroad Commission;
   (6)   the proposed well location must be out of the 100-year floodplain/
floodway;
   (7)   the proposed well will not be drilled to a formation at a true
vertical depth in excess of 20,000 feet;
   (8)   if the proposed well location required the approval of adjacent
surface property owners as provided in Section 61-32 of this chapter, the
applicant has acquired 100 percent of the required approvals.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-51. Application requirements.
An application for a Level A Permit satisfying all the criteria set out in
Section 61-50 shall include the following information:
(1)   information satisfying all the requirements of Section 61-31 of this
chapter;
(2)   a minimum site plan;
(3)   any other information required by the oil and gas inspector to assure
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-52. Permitting procedure.
(a)   The applicant shall cooperate fully with the oil and gas inspector in
providing all information necessary to complete the permit application. Upon
completion of the review of the permit application, the oil and gas inspector
shall make a recommendation to the City Manager as to whether a Level A Permit
should issue. If the City Manager determines that the application complies in
all respects with the provisions of this chapter, the City Manager shall issue
a permit for the drilling and operation of the well.
(b)   The City Manager shall act on an application for a Level A Permit within
30 days after all information required for issuance of the permit has been
filed with the oil and gas inspector. The 30 day review period shall not begin
to run until the applicant has provided the oil and gas inspector with a
complete application package, including satisfaction of the requirements of
Section 61-30 of this chapter regarding timely posting of the required notice
sign.
(c)   In reviewing the permit application, the oil and gas inspector and the
City Manager may consider the past performance of the applicant in compliance
with city ordinances regulating oil and gas drilling activity. Should the
applicant have a history of poor compliance, such that the City Manager
believes that a subsequent permit would necessitate a more intense site plan,
additional conditions, or other similar requirements, then the City Manager
may, within ten days of receipt of a completed application, determine that the
pending application should require a Level B or Level C Permit. Thereafter, the
permit shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
regarding issuance of such permits; the time period for issuance of such
permits shall begin on the date of the City Manager's recommendation or the
date of perfection of a permit application for the recommended permit,
whichever date shall occur later.
(d)   Based on the applicant's prior compliance and other considerations as set
out in subsection (c) above, the City Manager may also require as a condition
of issuance of the permit increased security or insurance coverage in excess of
that specified in Section 61-33 and Section 61-34 of this chapter.
(e)   The City Manager may impose any special conditions in the permit deemed
appropriate to achieve the purposes of this ordinance and to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(f)   The City Manager, upon a finding that the application fails to comply
with the requirements of this chapter or should not be approved for the reasons
stated in Sections 61-33 and 61-34 of this chapter, may deny the permit.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-53. Permit conditions.
(a)   Each Level A Permit issued under this article shall include the
following:
   (1)   by reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
in the permit.
   (2)   specify the well location with particularity to lot number, block
number, name of addition or subdivision, or other available correct legal
description, as indicated on the minimum site plan; provided, however, the
exact wellhead location for a Level A Permit may vary by 20 feet in either
direction from the originally indicated survey point as long as such variance
does not require the approval of adjacent property owners as set out in Section
61-32 of this chapter. If the site location does vary from that originally
presented to the oil and gas inspector, the permittee shall upon completion of
the well, file with the oil and gas inspector a revised site plan indicating
the actual location of the wellhead.
   (3)   specify the term of the permit in conformance with the requirements of
Section 61-36 of this chapter.
   (4)   specify minimum driveway requirements in conformance with the
provisions of Section 61-11 of this chapter.
   (5)   specify the total depth to which the well may be drilled, not
exceeding the projected depth.
   (6)   contain and specify that no actual operations shall be commenced until
the permittee shall file and have approved security in the designated principal
amount set out in the permit and conditioned as specified in Section 61-33 of
this chapter.
   (7)   contain and specify such conditions as are by this chapter authorized
or as are required by the City Manager.
(b)   The permit shall be in duplicate originals signed by the City Manager,
and prior to delivery to the permittee, shall be signed by the permittee with
one original to be retained by the city and one by the permittee. When so
signed such permit shall constitute the permittee's drilling and operating
license and a contractual obligation of the permittee to comply with the terms
of such permit, such bond, and this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-54. Appeal by the permit applicant.
The actions of the City Manager in imposing additional conditions in excess of
the minimum conditions required under this chapter for the issuance of the
permit, or the City Manager's denial of the permit application, may be appealed
by the permit applicant in public session to the City Council. In considering
the appeal, the burden of proof shall be upon the applicant, and the standard
for review of the City Manager's actions shall be the same as set out in
Section 61-72(h) herein for review of a Level C Permit application. Following
the appeal, the City Council may sustain the action of the City Manager,
reverse same, or impose additional requirements as conditions for issuance of
the permit as provided in Section 61-73 of this chapter. The City Council shall
have an additional 30 days from the date of filing an appeal to render its
decision, which shall be final.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Secs. 61-55 - 61-59. Reserved.
Article IV.
Level B Permit
Sec. 61-60. Permit defined.
(a)   Upon receipt of a permit application, the oil and gas inspector shall
determine if the application will qualify for a permit issued under this
article.
(b)   A permit issued under this article shall be designated a Level B Permit.
To qualify for consideration as a Level B Permit, a proposed well must not
potentially penetrate a sour gas formation as defined by the Texas Railroad
Commission, the proposed well location must not be in a city park, the proposed
well must not be drilled to a formation in excess of 20,000 feet in depth, and
the proposed well must satisfy one or more of the following criteria:
   (1)   the proposed well location has five or more habitable structures
within a 500 foot distance of the proposed wellhead location;
   (2)   the proposed well location is within a 500 foot distance of any public
school or full service hospital;
   (3)   the proposed well location is in the 100-year floodplain;
   (4)   the original application for the well location was qualified for a
Level A Permit, but was recommended for processing as a Level B Permit by the
City Manager.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-61. Application requirements.
An application for a Level B Permit satisfying all of the criteria set out in
Section 61-60 shall include the following information;
(1)   information satisfying all the requirements of Section 61-31 of this
chapter;
(2)   a detailed site plan including all of the information required for a
minimum site plan, but also including specific details as to the projected
location of the major components of the drilling site, impacted vegetation,
creeks and other topographic features, adjacent buildings and other structures,
including measured distances therefrom, any special flood protection equipment
or flow deflectors necessary to deflect flood-carried waters where wells are
located in floodplains, and any other surface features deemed necessary by the
oil and gas inspector;
(3)   appropriate information dealing with projected dust, noise, temporary and
permanent fencing, or other similar information dealing with the environmental
and nuisance aspects of the application;
(4)   a specific, detailed location of the exact point where the well will be
drilled;
(5)   any other information required by the oil and gas inspector to assure
compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-62. Permitting procedure.
(a)   The applicant shall cooperate fully with the oil and gas inspector in
providing all information necessary to complete the permit application. Upon
completion of the review of the permit application, the oil and gas inspector
shall make a recommendation to the City Manager as to whether a Level B Permit
should issue. If the City Manager determines that the applicant complies in all
respects with the provisions of this chapter, the City Manager shall issue a
permit for the drilling and operation of the well.
(b)   The City Manager shall act on an application for a Level B Permit within
30 days after all information required for issuance of the permit has been
filed with the oil and gas inspector. The 30 day review period shall not begin
to run until the applicant has provided the oil and gas inspector with a
complete application package, including satisfaction of the requirements of
Section 61-30 of this chapter regarding timely posting of the required notice
sign.
(c)   In reviewing the permit application, the oil and gas inspector and the
City Manager may consider the past performance of the applicant in compliance
with city ordinances regulating oil and gas drilling activity. Should the
applicant have a history of poor compliance, such that the City Manager
believes that a subsequent permit requires a more intensive site plan,
additional conditions, or other similar requirements, then the City Manager
may, within ten days of receipt of a completed application, determine that the
pending application should require a Level C Permit. Thereafter, the permit
shall be processed in accordance with the provisions of this chapter regarding
issuance of such permit; the time period for issuance of such a permit shall
begin on the date of the City Manager's recommendation or the date of
perfection of a permit application for the recommended permit, whichever date
shall occur later.
(d)   Based on the applicant's prior compliance and other considerations as set
out in subsection (c) above, the City Manager may also require as a condition
of issuance of the permit increased security or insurance coverage in excess of
that specified in Section 61-33 and Section 61-34 of this chapter.
(e)   The City Manager may impose any special conditions in the permit deemed
appropriate to achieve the purposes of this ordinance and to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(f)   The City Manager, upon a finding that the application fails to comply
with the requirements of this chapter, including especially the requirements of
Sections 61-33 and 61-34 regarding security and insurance, may deny the permit.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-63. Permit conditions.
(a)   Each Level B Permit issued under this article shall include the
following:
   (1)   by reference have incorporated therein all the provisions of this
chapter with the same force and effect as if this chapter were copied verbatim
in the permit.
   (2)   specify the well location with particularity to lot number, block
number, name of addition or subdivision, or other available correct legal
description; provided, however, that the site location and wellhead for the
actual drilling of the well shall be specifically set out as shown in the
detailed site plan, and there shall be no variation therefrom.
   (3)   require all drilling activities to be conducted in conformance with
the detailed site plan.
   (4)   require that upon completion of the well, a detailed reclamation plan
approved by the oil and gas inspector as part of the permit application be in
all things implemented.
   (5)   specify the term of the permit in conformance with the requirements of
Section 61-36 of this chapter.
   (6)   specify minimum driveway requirements in conformance with the
requirements of Section 61-11 of this chapter.
   (7)   specify the total depth to which the well may be drilled, not
exceeding the projected depth.
   (8)   contain and specify that no actual operations shall be commenced until
the permittee shall file and have approved an indemnity bond in the designated
principal amount set out in the permit and conditioned as specified in Section
61-33 of this chapter.
   (9)   contain and specify such conditions as are by this chapter authorized
or as are required by the City Manager.
(b)   The permit shall be in duplicate originals signed by the City Manager,
and prior to delivery to the permittee, shall be signed by the permittee with
one original to be retained by the city and one by the permittee. When so
signed such permit shall constitute the permittee's drilling and operating
license and a contractual obligation of the permittee to comply with the terms
of such permit, such bond, and this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-64. Appeal by the permit applicant.
The actions of the City Manager in imposing additional conditions in excess of
the minimum conditions required under this chapter for the issuance of the
permit, or the City Manager's denial of the permit application, may be appealed
by the permit applicant in public session to the City Council. In considering
the appeal, the burden of proof shall be upon the applicant, and the standard
for review of the City Manager's actions shall be the same as set out in
Section 61-72(h) herein for review of a Level C Permit application. Following
the appeal, the City Council may sustain the action of the City Manager,
reverse same, or impose additional requirements as conditions of issuance of
the permit as provided in Section 61-73 of this chapter. The City Council shall
have an additional 30 days from the date of filing an appeal to render its
decision, which shall be final.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Secs. 61-65 - 61-69. Reserved.
Article V.
Level C Permits
Sec. 61-70. Permit defined.
(a)   Upon receipt of a permit application, the oil and gas inspector shall
determine if the application will qualify for a permit issued under this
article.
(b)   A permit issued under this article shall be designated a Level C Permit.
A well satisfying one or more of the following criteria will be considered for
a Level C Permit:
   (1)   the proposed well will penetrate a potential sour gas formation as
defined by the Texas Railroad Commission;
   (2)   the proposed well location will be wholly or partially located within
a city park;
   (3)   the proposed well location is located near residences or other
habitable buildings and the applicant has been unable to obtain permission from
100 percent of the adjacent surface property owners in accordance with the
requirements of Section 61-32 of this chapter;
   (4)   the proposed well will be drilled to a formation at a true vertical
depth in excess of 20,000 feet;
   (5)   the permit application is one which would be otherwise qualified for a
Level A or Level B Permit, but has been referred by the City Manager for
consideration as a Level C Permit.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-71. Application requirements.
An application for a Level C Permit satisfying one or more of the criteria set
out in Section 61-70 shall include the following information:
(1)   information satisfying all the requirements of Section 61-31 of this
chapter;
(2)   a detailed site plan including all of the information required for a
minimum site plan, but also including specific details as to the projected
location of the major components of the drilling site, impacted vegetation,
creeks and other topographic features, adjacent buildings and other structures,
including measured distances therefrom, any special flood protection equipment
or flow deflectors necessary to deflect flood-carried waters where wells are
located in floodplains, and any other surface features deemed necessary by the
oil and gas inspector;
(3)   appropriate information dealing with projected dust, noise, temporary and
permanent fencing, or other similar information dealing with the environmental
and nuisance aspects of the application;
(4)   a specific, detailed location of the exact point where the well will be
drilled;
(5)   if the applicant must obtain a Level C Permit because the applicant has
failed to obtain 100 percent approval of adjacent property owners as required
by Section 61-32 of this chapter, then the application must include a detailed
description of the efforts made by the applicant to obtain such permission, and
a detailed statement of objections raised by adjacent property owners to the
drilling of the well;
(6)   if the applicant must obtain a Level C Permit because the objective of
the well is the penetration of a potential sour gas formation as defined by the
Texas Railroad Commission, the application must include specific details
relating to the drilling formation the applicant seeks to penetrate, detailed
safety methods to be used in the drilling and operation of the well to prevent
release or escape of noxious fumes or dangerous gases, information to delineate
anticipated impacted areas and the level of impact should an accident occur
which would allow the escape of the sour gas, and an emergency response and
evacuation plan;
(7)   if the applicant must obtain a Level C Permit because the objective of
the well is the penetration of a potential sour gas formation as defined by the
Texas Railroad Commission, the applicant must include on the sign required
under Section 61-30 information advising that a permit for a sour gas well is
pending;
(8)   if the applicant must obtain a Level C Permit because the drilling site
will be located wholly or partially in a city park, the applicant must state
the reasons why the park property is the only location available for the well,
must delineate in detail efforts made to find alternative locations for the
well, and why such efforts were unsuccessful, must include in the detailed site
plan an overlay of park property to delineate those park facilities which would
be specifically impacted by the drilling and production operations, and must
describe in detail the impacts on the park property as a whole, including
impacts on adjacent vegetation, the necessity for screening, and the duration
of any adverse impacts;
(9)   if the applicant must obtain a Level C Permit because the drilling site
will be located wholly or partially in a city park, the applicant must include
a detailed site restoration plan delineating re-vegetation of the park
property, screening, appropriate environmental controls, and other requirements
as deemed appropriate by the city oil and gas inspector;
(10)   any other information required by the oil and gas inspector to assure
compliance with the requirements of this article.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-72. Permitting procedure.
(a)   The applicant shall cooperate fully with the oil and gas inspector in
providing all information necessary to complete the permit application. Upon
completion of the review of the permit application, the oil and gas inspector
shall make a formal written recommendation to the City Council, and if the
application is for a drilling location in a city park, to the city parks and
recreation board as to whether or not a Level C Permit should issue. The oil
and gas inspector shall make said recommendation within 30 days after all
information required for issuance of the permit has been filed with the oil and
gas inspector. The 30 day review period shall not begin to run until the
applicant has provided the oil and gas inspector with a complete application
package, including satisfaction of the requirements of Section 61-30 of this
chapter regarding timely posting of the required notice sign.
(b)   If the application proposes a drilling site location located wholly or
partially within a city park, and following the review and recommendation
process by the oil and gas inspector, the permit application shall then be
considered by the city parks and recreation board. The parks and recreation
board will conduct at a public meeting a review of the potential impact of the
application on the city park property, soliciting information from the permit
applicant and from those interested citizens or other parties which the parks
and recreation board deems appropriate. The parks and recreation board shall
review the application within a 30 day period following receipt of the oil and
gas inspector's recommendation, and shall then make a recommendation to City
Council for its consideration.
(c)   Upon receipt of the recommendations from the oil and gas inspector, or in
the case of an application for a well site located wholly or partially in a
city park, upon receipt of the recommendation from the city parks and
recreation board, the City Council shall hold a public hearing to consider such
application. Provided all other notice requirements as set out herein are
satisfied, said public hearing may be conducted as part of a regularly
scheduled City Council meeting.
(d)    Any well application which has progressed to the point of consideration
by City Council must be accompanied by an additional non-refundable fee. Said
fee shall be a standard fee set by resolution of City Council.
(e)   At least 20 days and no more than 30 days precedent to any such public
hearing before City Council, the applicant at applicant's expense shall publish
notice of the hearing in a local newspaper acceptable to the city. The
substance of the notice and the procedure for publishing same shall be approved
by the city prior to publication. The applicant shall obtain a certificate of
publication from the newspaper following publication of the notice.
(f)   At least 20 days prior to the hearing, the applicant shall by certified
mail, return receipt requested, give notice of the hearing to the following
persons:
   (1)   if the applicant must obtain a Level C Permit because the applicant
has failed to obtain 100 percent of the approvals of adjacent surface property
owners as required under Section 61-32 of this chapter, then the applicant
shall give notice of the hearing to all owners of the residences and commercial
buildings located within 300 feet of the proposed drilling site;
   (2)   all other applicants for Level C Permits shall give notice of the
hearing to all property owners located within 500 feet of the proposed drilling
site.
      Mail notices as required herein shall be served by depositing same with
the United States Post Office, properly addressed and postage prepaid,
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the address of each owner shown as
reflected on the last approved city tax roll, or such other alternative address
as shall be made known to the applicant. The applicant shall likewise post a
sign on the drill site premise giving 20 days advance notice of the hearing.
The notice sign shall be posted in a manner similar to and shall bear lettering
comparable to that sign required by Section 61-30 of this chapter.
(g)   During the initial portion of the public hearing, and before the City
Council may consider the merits of the applicant's permit application, the
applicant shall provide evidence to the satisfaction of the City Council of the
following:
   (1)   in the case of an applicant who is required to obtain a Level C Permit
because the applicant has failed to obtain 100 permit approval of adjacent
property owners as required under Section 61-32 of this chapter, that the
applicant has made a good faith, bona fide attempt and offered to obtain
written permission from each and all of the owners of any residential or
commercial buildings located within 300 feet of the drill site;
   (2)   a certificate of publication establishing timely publication of the
notice of hearing as required herein;
   (3)   that timely actual notice of the hearing was given to all persons as
required in Section 61-72(f);
   (4)   that the applicant has otherwise complied with or satisfied all other
requirements of Chapter 61 of the Code, including full and complete compliance
with the financial and technical requirements stated therein;
   (5)   that the applicant has an acceptable record of voluntary compliance
with the terms and provisions of the city's oil and gas drilling ordinances for
past drilling operations.
(h)   The burden of proof of all matters considered in the hearing shall be
upon the applicant.
(i)   Following such public hearing, the City Council shall have the power to
refuse any application for a Level C Permit to drill and operate such a well
within the city limits of the city whereby reason of such particular well
location and the character and value of the permanent improvements already
erected on or approximately adjacent to the particular location in question,
and the use to which the land and surroundings are adapted, or by reason of the
applicant's prior poor compliance with the city's ordinances, or by reason of
the fact that the well location would impose an unreasonable burden or unduly
damage the surface of the proposed location, including especially park land,
and there are alternative sites available for such well location, or for health
or safety reasons, or for a composite of any of these reasons, or others, the
drilling or operation of such well in the particular location might be
injurious or a disadvantage to the city or to its inhabitants, especially
adjacent property owners; or the City Council may grant a permit upon such
terms and conditions as the City Council determines to be necessary to protect
the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93; Ord. No. 3242, § 9, 8-28-03)
Sec. 61-73. Permit conditions.
If the permit is approved by the City Council, the permittee shall comply with
any special conditions that the City Council shall require as a condition of
approval, including those conditions required for the issuance of a Level B
Permit and any other special conditions, including, but not limited to, special
conditions dealing with:
(1)   well safety;
(2)   noise;
(3)   access;
(4)   site configuration;
(5)   site screening;
(6)   well construction procedures and time of completion;
(7)   well maintenance;
(8)   site maintenance;
(9)   site safety and appearance;
(10)   additional security in the form of bonds or other security as provided
in Section 61-33 of this chapter;
(11)   additional insurance as provided in Section 61-34 of this chapter;
(12)   use and disposal of drilling fluids;
(13)   site reclamation;
(14)   well/site abandonment.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Secs. 61-74 - 61-79. Reserved.
Article VI.
Requirements for Operating Wells
Sec. 61-80. Permit required.
Each owner or operator of an oil and gas well operating within the city limits
of the city shall be required to obtain an annual operating permit for each
said well. For the purposes of this article, a well shall be considered
operating unless the well has been plugged and abandoned and a copy of the
appropriate Texas Railroad Commission form certifying plugging and abandonment
is filed with the city.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-81. Application requirements.
(a)   Applications for permits under this article shall be filed annually with
the City Secretary. Each application shall contain as a minimum the following
information:
   (1)   the name, address, phone number, and emergency phone number of the
owner, operator, or other person responsible for the well;
   (2)   the Texas Railroad Commission designation and serial number for said
well;
   (3)   the exact location of said well, identified by reference to adjacent
streets and block number and by use of an attached map;
   (4)   the nature, type (oil or gas or both), and age of the well, and any
unique features of same;
   (5)   a general description of the well-associated equipment, including
pumper, evaporator, condensate tank, condensers, storage tanks, compressors,
and the like;
   (6)   any other information desired or deemed appropriate or necessary by
the oil and gas inspector.
(b)   Renewals of permits may be handled administratively by the city, and
additional information need not be provided unless changes have occurred.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-82. Annual fee.
Each operating permit application shall be accompanied by an annual fee set by
resolution of City Council. After issuance of the initial permit, and if
requested by the permittee, the city may annually bill the permittee for the
permit fee.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93; Ord. No. 3242, § 10, 8-28-03)
Sec. 61-83. Inspections authorized.
The oil and gas inspector is hereby authorized to perform inspections of all
well sites within the city limits of the city to identify any safety hazards,
nuisances, or other problems related to such wells.
Sec. 61-84. Minimum safety requirements.
To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the city the
following safety standards shall apply to all operating oil and gas wells
within the city:
(1)   Each well located within 150 feet of a habitable structure, including,
but not limited to, residences, schools, churches, commercial and retail
establishments, and industrial sites, or within 150 feet of any dedicated
thoroughfare, shall have the wellhead, pumping mechanism, condensate tank,
storage tank, and compressor fully enclosed with a fence and associated locked
gate conforming to the fencing requirements set out in Section 61-10 of this
chapter.
(2)   Each well site enclosed within a berm, levy, or other similar protective
structure shall be fitted with a drainpipe and drain valve. Following release
of rainwater from the containment area, it shall be unlawful to fail to close
the drain valve.
(3)   Each well shall be fitted with an operational high/low safety shut-in
device maintained in working condition.
(4)   Each well shall be fitted with a shutoff valve or switch as provided in
Section 61-16 of this chapter.
(5)   Each well shall have posted at a prominent point on the well site, a sign
bearing the name and address of the owner or operator of the well and the
emergency telephone number whereby the owner or operator of the well can be
contacted 24 hours per day regarding any emergency condition existing on the
well site as provided in Section 61-15 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-85. Notice to the oil and gas inspector.
The operator will notify the oil and gas inspector 24 hours in advance of any
re-completions or major stimulations of existing wells.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Secs. 61-86 - 61-89. Reserved.
Article VII.
Compliance
Sec. 61-90. Use of security.
The City Manager is hereby authorized, following such reasonable notice to a
permittee under this chapter as the City Manager shall determine is justified
based on the individual circumstances and consideration of public health,
safety, and welfare, to apply the proceeds of any security posted by a
permittee to the cost of curing any condition or circumstance of noncompliance
with respect to a permit issued under this chapter.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-91. Revocation or suspension.
The City Council at any regular or special session or meeting thereof, may,
after ten days notice has been given to the permittee that revocation or
suspension is to be considered at such meeting, revoke or suspend any permit
issued under this chapter and under which drilling or producing operations are
being conducted, in the event the permittee thereof has violated any provisions
of the permit, bond, or this chapter. In the event the permit is revoked or
suspended, the permittee may make application to the City Council for a
reissuance of such permit, provided said applicant has cured any and all
violations which led to the suspension or revocation. Revocation of any permit
under this section shall be in addition to the penalties prescribed for the
violation involved.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-92. Penalties.
Each individual violation of this chapter by a permittee, driller, lease
operator or other person is declared to be a misdemeanor and upon adjudication
of guilt a fine not to exceed the maximum amount authorized by law shall be
assessed against such violator in accordance with the provisions of Section 1-
4 of the Code. Each continuing day of each individual violation shall be deemed
a separate offense for which a separate fine may be assessed.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Sec. 61-93. Enforcement.
The city oil and gas inspector is hereby authorized to make all necessary
inspections and issue citations incident to obtaining compliance by all
permittees with the requirements of this chapter. The City Attorney is
authorized to undertake any necessary legal action, including suit for
injunctive relief, to compel compliance with the terms and provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 2272, § 1, 1-26-93)
Chapters 62 - 63
Reserved 
Chapter 64
Repealed in its Entirety (Ord. No. 4102, § 3, 5-25-17)
Chapters 65 - 66
Reserved 
Chapter 67
Outdoor Vendors and Solicitors
Sec.
67-1.   Definitions.
Sec.
67-2.   Temporary outdoor vendors - Prohibited acts.
Sec.
67-3.   Prohibited conduct.
Sec.
67-4.   Vending or soliciting on public property or public rights-of-way
prohibited.
Sec.
67-5.   Permit required.
Sec.
67-6.   Application for permit.
Sec.
67-7.   Issuance of permit.
Sec.
67-8.   Denial of permit, grounds.
Sec.
67-9.   Revocation of permit.
Sec.
67-10.   Permit denial or revocation hearing.
Sec.
67-11.   Display of permit.
Sec.
67-12.   Exceptions.
Sec.
67-13.   Penalty.
Sec.
 67-14.   Mobile Food Units.
Sec.  
67-15.   Permit Required for Mobile Food Units.
Sec.  
67-16.   Application for Permit for Mobile Food Units.
Sec.  
67-17.   Issuance of Permit for Mobile Food Units.
Sec.  
67-18.   Appeals.
"Article II. Solicitation."
Sec.
 67-20.   Title and Purpose.
Sec.  
67-21.   Definitions.
Sec.  
67-22.   Solicitation by Coercion Prohibited.
Sec.
67-23.   Culpable Mental State.
Sec.
67-24.   Penalty.
Sec. 67-1.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms or words shall have the
meaning ascribed after them:
   Building Official. The term "Building Official" shall mean the Building
Official of the City of Longview, or the Building Official's designee for the
purposes of this ordinance.
   Charitable purpose. The term “charitable purpose” shall mean the use of
money or property for the support of a charitable, educational, religious,
benevolent, patriotic, civic, or other philanthropic organization or entity.
   Charitable solicitations. The term “charitable solicitations” shall mean
conduct whereby a person, organization, society, corporation, or its agent,
member, or representative directly or indirectly solicits property, financial
aid, gifts in money, or any article representing monetary value; or sells or
offers to sell a product, article, tag, service, or printed material on the
plea or representation, whether express or implied, that the proceeds from the
solicitation or sale are for a charitable, educational, religious, benevolent,
patriotic, civic, or other philanthropic purpose.
   City Planner. The term "City Planner" shall mean the City Planner of the
City of Longview, or the City Planner's designee for the purposes of this
ordinance.
   City Manager.  The term “City Manager” shall mean the City Manager of the
City of Longview, or the City Manager’s designee for purposes of this chapter.
   Chief of Police. The term "Chief of Police" shall mean the Chief of Police
of the City of Longview, or the Chief of Police's designee for the purposes of
this ordinance.
   Door-to-door soliciting. The term “door-to-door soliciting” shall mean going
to one or more locations within the city in person or by agent for the purpose
of vending, selling or taking orders for merchandise or services and which may
include the use of a cart, wagon, truck, or easily movable display. This does
not include charitable, religious, or political solicitations or temporary
outdoor vending as defined in this chapter.
   Merchandise.  The term “merchandise” shall mean property of every kind
including services, which is used in its broadest sense, and shall include any
work done for the benefit of another person.
   Mobile display. The term “mobile display” shall mean a temporary vending
location where no lease or contract has been signed for use of the property and
the display of goods or services is conducted directly from an easily movable
display that is removed at the end of business each day including but not
limited to passenger vehicles or push carts.
   Mobile Food Unit (MFU). The term "Mobile Food Unit" (MFU) shall have the
same meaning as ascribed to term in Chapter 46 of the Longview City code.
   Person. The term “person” shall mean an individual, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   Political purpose. The term “political purpose” shall mean the use of money
or property for the support of a political party, candidate, group, or
association.
   Political solicitation. The term “political solicitation” shall mean conduct
whereby a person, organization, society, corporation, or its agent, member, or
representative solicits property, financial aid, gifts in money, or any article
representing monetary value; or sells or offers to sell a product, article,
tag, service, or printed material, on the plea or representation, whether
express or implied, that the proceeds from the solicitation or sale are for a
political purpose.
   Public property. The term “public property” shall mean any property open or
devoted to public use or owned by the city, including, but not limited to,
sidewalks, streets, rights-of-ways, parks, and municipal buildings. This
definition does not include property owned by any county entity.
   Public rights-of-way. The term “public rights-of-way” shall mean the
surface, the air space above the surface, and the area below the surface of any
public street, highway, lane, path, alley, sidewalk, boulevard, drive, bridge,
tunnel, parkway, waterway, easement, or similar property in which the city or
the State of Texas now or hereafter holds any property interest, which,
consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may be used for the
purpose of installing and maintaining a person's facilities. Nothing in this
article or in any permit shall be deemed to be a representation or guarantee by
the city that its interest or other right to control the use of such property
is sufficient to permit its use for such purposes. The holder of a permit shall
be deemed to gain only those rights to use as are properly in the city and as
the city may have the undisputed right and power to give.
   Religious purpose. The term “religious purpose” shall mean the use of money
or property for the support of a church, religious society, or other religious
sect, group, or order.
   Religious solicitation. The term "religious solicitation" shall mean conduct
whereby a person, organization, society, corporation, or its agent, member, or
representative solicits property, financial aid, gifts in money, or any article
representing monetary value; or sells or offers to sell a product, article,
tag, service, or printed material; on the plea or representation, whether
express or implied, that the proceeds from the solicitation or sale are for a
religious purpose.
   Sale. The term “sale” shall mean the actual transfer of goods or
merchandise, or the agreement to transfer goods or merchandise.
   Solicit. The term “solicit” shall mean to offer for sale, attempt to sell,
vend, display for sale, or accept orders for any merchandise, goods, or
services or to ask, beg, or plead, by the spoken, written, or printed word, or
other such means of communication, for the purpose of receiving contributions,
alms, charity, money, or anything of value from another person, regardless of
the solicitor's purpose or intended use of the money or thing of value, and
regardless of whether consideration is offered.
   Stationary display. The term “stationary display” shall mean a temporary
vending location designed for sale of goods or services from a temporary
structure or display that is not easily movable or is not removed at the end of
each day including but not limited to tents, trailers, sheds, or awnings.
   Temporary. The term “temporary” shall mean any such business for which no
contract, hire, rental or lease agreement has been for more than 30 consecutive
calendar days for the lot, tract, or location on which such business is to be
operated or conducted.
   Temporary outdoor vending. The term “temporary outdoor vending” shall mean
the sale, display, offering for sale soliciting of any merchandise, goods, or
services from a temporary outdoor location not within any permanent building or
structure designed for the sale of such goods. The term shall specifically
include the sale of merchandise, goods, or services from a stationary display
by means such as stands, stalls, or tents; from a mobile display by means of a
vehicle; and all other sales not within a permanent structure. The term shall
not include activity of door-to-door vending.
   Vend. The term “vend” shall mean to sell, offer for sale, solicit,
distribute, or display for sale any merchandise, goods or services.
   Vendor. The term “vendor” shall mean any person who engages in a temporary
business in the city of selling, exhibiting, or offering or soliciting for sale
any merchandise or service, including door-to-door soliciting or temporary
outside vending as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03; Ord. No. 3255, § 2, 9-25-03; Ord. No. 3525, § 38,
6-14-07; Ord. No. 4036 § 3, 2-11-16; Ord. No. 4125, §3, 9-28-17)
Sec. 67-2.   Temporary outdoor vendors - Prohibited acts.
(a)   No person, personally, by agent, or as the agent of another, may engage
in, transact, or conduct the business or occupation of a temporary outdoor
vendor, as herein defined, which shall specifically include, but is not limited
to:
   (1)   vending, selling, distributing, or displaying for sale any food,
household items, clothing, furniture, novelties, toys, boats, automobiles or
any other manufactured items;
   (2)   vending, selling, distributing, donating, offering for sale, or
displaying for sale any animal whether or not for profit or charge;
   (3)   vending, soliciting, selling, distributing, offering for sale or
order, or in any manner displaying for sale any merchandise from public
property or public rights-of-way within the city limits;
   (4)   utilizing a camper vehicle, tent, travel trailer, motor home, bus, or
any manner or type of shelter used as a dwelling or for purposes of sleeping,
cooking, or living quarters, for the purposes of offering, or displaying
merchandise for sale at any location permitted as a sales site under this
chapter; and
   (5)   allowing an outdoor stationary display to remain at a location,
business, lot, or tract of land for more than 30 days.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03; Ord. No. 3255, § 3, 9-25-03)
Sec. 67-3.   Prohibited conduct.
No person, personally, by agent, or as the agent of another, may engage in,
transact, or conduct the business or occupation of door-to-door soliciting,
temporary outdoor vending, or charitable, political, or religious soliciting,
or otherwise solicit, as herein defined, and:
(a)   make physical contact with the person being solicited unless that person
grants permission;
(b)   misrepresent the affiliation of the vendor;
(c)   continue to sell to an individual, or solicit from an individual, once
that individual gives notice to the vendor that they do not wish to be sold
merchandise by, or solicited by that vendor ot solicitor. Notice includes but
is not limited to verbal communication that the individual does not wish to be
solicited, or a sign or signs prominently displayed on or near the entrance to
the business or residence conspicuously stating “NO SOLICITORS”, “NO
SOLICITING”, or similar language of notice;
(d)   vend, sell, or solicit at a private residence at any time other than
between the hours of 12:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m., or such other hours posted by the
occupant unless a prior invitation from the occupant has been received;
(e)   enter a private residence under false pretenses; or
(f)   remain in a private residence or on the premises thereof after the owner
or occupant has requested such person to leave.
(g)   a mobile food unit shall not conduct business in a residential area,
other than events specifically allowed by this Code and permitted through the
city.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03; Ord. No. 4036, 2-11-16; Ord. No. 4125, §5, 9-28-
17; Ord. No. 4549, §2, 3-27-25)
Sec. 67-4.   Vending or soliciting on public property or public rights-of-way
prohibited.
(a)   No person shall occupy public property or the public rights-of-way in the
city for the purpose of vending, selling, distributing, soliciting, or offering
for sale any merchandise or services, or for the purpose of charitable,
political, or religious solicitation.
(b)   No person shall conduct vending, soliciting, charitable, political, or
religious solicitations, selling, distributing, offering for sale, ordering or
in any manner displaying for sale any merchandise from a public street or
public rights-of-way within the city limits.
(c)   It is a defense to prosecution under the provisions of this section if
the person:
   (1)   is doing so in connection with the transaction of official government
business;
   (2)   is doing so by authority of a contract with the city to operate a
concession within designated areas of public property;
   (3)   is doing so in a city park as defined in Chapter 81 of the City of
Longview Code of Ordinances pursuant to a permit issued by the Director of
Parks and Recreation, or the Director’s designee;
   (4)   is doing so at any of the Longview Activity Center locations by
authority or agreement with the city;
   (5)   is doing do as the permit holder of an outdoor event permit or parade
permit as defined in Chapter 79 of the city code;
   (6)   is operating as a mobile food unit or mobile produce vendor according
to the requirements of Chapter 46 of the city code while moving from location
to location along the public rights-of-way;
   (7)   is operating a vehicle for hire as defined in Chapter 103 of the city
code;
   (8)   is doing so on the public rights-of-way controlled by the state
pursuant to appropriate authorization issued by the state; or
   (9)   is doing so on City property or on-street parking pursuant to a permit
issued by the Director of Community Services.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03; Ord. No. 3255, § 4, 9-25-03; Ord. No. 4036, 2-11-
16; Ord. No. 4101, § 3, 5-25-17; Ord. No. 4124, §2, 9-14-17; Ord. No. 4125, §6,
9-28-17)
Sec. 67-5.   Permit required.
(a)   No person, personally, by agent, or as the agent of another, may engage
in, transact, or conduct the business or occupation of door-to-door soliciting
or temporary outdoor vending, as herein defined, either as principal or as
agent or employee of any other person, unless a valid permit has been issued as
provided in this chapter.
(b)   No person may engage in, transact, conduct the business or occupation, or
allow door-to-door vending or temporary outdoor vending, in violation of the
terms and conditions of a valid permit issued in accordance with this chapter.
 
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03)
Sec. 67-6.   Application for permit.
(a)   Any person desiring to engage in, transact or conduct the business or
occupation of temporary outdoor vending within the city shall file a written
application for a permit with the City Planner, or the City Planner’s designee.
The application must provide the following:
   (1)   the name, address, and telephone number of the applicant including the
name under which the business is operating;
   (2)    the name, address, and telephone number of the owner or owners of the
business;
   (3)   the period of time the applicant is requesting to vend in the City of
Longview;
   (4)   the location where the vendor will conduct business, and provide
written permission from the property owner permitting the vendor to conduct
business at the location including any contract, hire, rental, or lease
agreement for use of the property;
   (5)    a site plan including the location of the all displays or structures,
parking, and driveway accesses;
   (6)   a valid form of identity such as a Texas drivers license or Texas
identification card issued by the Texas Department of Public Safety from the
owner or the applicant; and
   (7)   a copy of a valid sales tax certificate issued by the State of Texas.
(b)   Any person desiring to engage in, transact or conduct the business or
occupation of door-to-door vending within the city shall file a written
application for a permit with the Chief of Police, or the Chief of Police’s
designee. The application must provide the following:
   (1)   the name, address, telephone number and date of birth of the
applicant;
   (2)   if the applicant is the agent or employee of another, the name,
address and telephone number of applicant’s principal or employer;
   (3)   the period of time the applicant is to vend or solicit in the City of
Longview;
   (4)   if the applicant is vending food as a door-to-door solicitor, attach a
copy of the current mobile food service permit or mobile produce vendors permit
issued by the City of Longview environmental health division;
   (5)   a valid form of identity such as a Texas drivers license or Texas
identification card issued by the Texas Department of Public Safety; and
   (6)   a recent photographic likeness of the applicant for attachment to the
permit.
(c)   The required permit fee, as established by separate resolution, must be
submitted with the application.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03; Ord. No. 3255, § 5, 9-25-03)
Sec. 67-7.   Issuance of permit.
(a)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be valid for
the type, location, and dates stated on the permit application.
(b)   Door-to-door solicitor permits shall be issued for a time not to exceed
12 months per permit. Employees, agents, or representatives of a partnership or
corporation must obtain a door-to-door solicitor permit for each individual
that vends or solicits.
(c)   Temporary outdoor vendor permits shall only be granted for the sale of
seasonal items such as Christmas trees, pumpkins, roses, or produce and only
for the period of time related to the season.
   (1)   Permits for stationary displays may only be issued for the season
appropriate for the items for which the permit is granted. In no case shall
more than one permit be granted to any applicant within any 12-month period,
either as the individual applicant or as a business entity. Additionally, no
more than three permits may be granted for any location, lot, or tract of land
within any 12-month period.
   (2)    Permits for mobile displays shall not exceed 90 days per permit.
Permits may only be issued for the season appropriate for the items for which
the permit is granted. In no case shall more than two permits be granted to any
applicant within any 12-month period, either as the individual applicant or as
a business entity. No more than two permits may be granted for any location,
lot, or tract of land within any 12-month period.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03; Ord. No. 3255, § 6, 9-25-03)
Sec. 67-8.   Denial of permit, grounds.
(a)   A permit shall be granted to an applicant meeting all requirements of
this chapter. The following are considered grounds for denial of permit:
   (1)   an applicant or employee is prohibited from working by federal or
state law because of applicant’s age;
   (2)   false or misleading information is contained in the application or
required information is omitted;
   (3)   the permit fee has not been paid;
   (4)   the location indicated on the application does not have an improved
off-street parking surface of adequate size to accommodate the proposed vending
activity and a driveway for entrance on to the property. For the purpose of
this chapter, the minimum parking standards are established by the “zoning”
ordinance of the city as it currently exists and as it may hereafter be
amended;
   (5)   the applicant has failed to comply with any applicable requirements of
state or federal laws or regulations, or has failed to comply with any
applicable requirements of the Code of the city, including but not limited to
the provisions of the ordinances regulating building standards, zoning, food
and food establishments, and parks and playgrounds of this Code as said
ordinances, laws or rules currently exist and as they may hereafter be amended;
   (6)   the applicant fails to obtain all applicable permits including but not
limited to building permit, electrical permit, or mobile food permit;
   (7)   the activity would violate an applicable federal, state or municipal
law;
   (8)   the location of the temporary outdoor vending activity does not comply
with applicable zoning ordinances and/or restrictions of the city related to
outside storage and display of merchandise;
   (9)   the applicant has been issued a temporary outdoor vendor permit for a
stationary display within the last 12 months;
   (10)   three permits have been issued for temporary outdoor vendor permits
for a stationary display at the location, tract, or lot within the last 12
months;
   (11)   the applicant or the activity to be conducted by the applicant is not
eligible for issuance of a permit under this chapter or fails to comply with an
applicable provision of this chapter.
   (12)   the permit is for door-to-door vending under 67-6(b), and the
applicant or applicant's employer is currently charged with, on deferred
adjudication for, or has been convicted of, a felony or misdemeanor involving
fraud, theft, burglary, sexually-related crime, or a crime involving violence
or threat of violence; or
   (13)   the permit is for door-to-door vending under 67-6(b), and the
applicant or applicant's employer has had a civil judgment or administrative
decision based upon fraud, theft, burglary, sexual incident or violence entered
or ordered against them.
(b)   Any application denied under subsection (a) above may be amended and
resubmitted within five (5) business days of the denial.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03; Ord. No. 3255, § 7, 9-25-03; Ord. No. 4549, §3,
3-27-25; Ord. No. 4549, §4, 3-27-25)
Sec. 67-9.   Revocation of permit.
At any time the Chief of Police, City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee,
after written notice to the vendor may revoke the permit on a finding that the
information as stated in the application is false or incorrect, or the
conditions imposed by the permit will not be met.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03)
Sec. 67-10.   Permit denial or revocation hearing.
(a)   Every denial or revocation of a permit under this article shall be in
writing, dated and shall state the reason for such action. Said notice shall
immediately be sent to the applicant by certified mail, or shall be personally
delivered to such person.
(b)   Any applicant may, within ten business days after the date of the notice
provided for in subsection (a) above, submit to the City Manager a written
request for a hearing to show cause as to why the permit should be granted or
should not be revoked. Such request shall not stay the denial or revocation. A
hearing shall be scheduled within ten business days of such request and notice
shall be immediately given to all affected parties. The City Manager or the
City Manager's designee may cause the hearing to be conducted solely upon
written submissions from the parties.
(c)   Following the hearing, the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee
shall render a written decision granting or denying the application, or
reinstating or revoking the permit, as the case may be. The decision shall be
immediately provided to the permit applicant.
(d)   The applicant may appeal the decision of the City Manager to the District
Court.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03; Ord. No. 4125, §7, 9-28-17)
Sec. 67-11.   Display of permit.
When engaged in door-to-door soliciting the permit required by this chapter
shall be carried by each individual solicitor whether conducting business as an
individual or an employee, representative, or agent of another, and shall, upon
request, be displayed to any police officer for examination. Otherwise, such
permit shall be prominently displayed upon the premises or place where the
business is authorized and conducted.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03)
Sec. 67-12.   Exceptions.
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
(a)   Any person who is conducting business at a location for which a
certificate of occupancy has been granted and the activity conducted at the
location is not in violation of any ordinance regulating zoning, or any other
provision of law, for the activity for which the certificate of occupancy has
been granted at that location.
(b)   Any vending that is conducted as a part of a scheduled event held
exclusively on property owned by the city and controlled by the city parks and
recreation department, or the Longview Activity Center, when approval has been
obtained from the city prior to the event.
(c)   Any vending that is conducted as a part of an event held exclusively on
property owned by a county, such as Gregg County or Harrison County, when the
vending is conducted with the permission of the county.
(d)   Any vending that is conducted as a part of an outdoor event or parade as
defined in Chapter 79 of the city Code as they currently exist or as they may
be amended, when written permission is obtained from the permit holder.
(e)   Any occasional sale or garage sale in a residential zoned district that
is conducted in compliance with the requirements of the zoning ordinance and
any other applicable requirements of law for such activity.
(f)   Any vending of fresh fruits or vegetables from the farm or land from
which produce is grown.
(g)   Any vehicle offered for sale by the owner at the private residence of the
owner or when driven or parked by the owner as a part of the owner’s normal
daily activities.
(h)   Any religious, political, or charitable solicitation as defined in this
chapter where all of the proceeds are used for religious, political, or
charitable purposes, unless otherwise specifically prohibited in ordinance or
by state statute.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03; Ord. No. 3286, § 44, 1-22-04; Ord. No. 4125, §8,
9-28-17)
Sec. 67-13.   Penalty.
Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee thereof who violates any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined an amount not to exceed $500.00 for each
offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. The City Council hereby dispenses with the requirement of
establishing a culpable mental state in order to prove a violation of this
section.
(Ord. No. 3192, § 3, 2-13-03)
Sec. 67-14.   Mobile Food Units.
Mobile Food Units are allowed in zoning districts per the Unified Development
Code Article B Section 3 Subsection 3.03. All Mobile Food Units shall abide by
all of the following:
(a)   Vending or parking on grass or dirt is prohibited.
(b)   Mobile Food Units must not obstructed traffic movement, fire lanes, drive
aisles, or fire hydrants.
(c)   Mobile Food Units cannot impair visibility or safety onsite.
(d)   May locate in Single Family, Townhome and Two Family, Residential Zoning
Districts per any of the following:
   (1)   City property, county property, schools, or churches, where authorized
by that entity;
   (2)   Must be invited by the HOA Home Owners Association or a Resident of
the Neighborhood. The Mobile Food Unit must be parked in a driveway or other
private or HOA area not in the right-of-way (ROW).
   (3)   Snow cone units and ice cream units are allowed to vend. Snow cone
units and ice cream units are not allowed to be stationary unless they obtain a
catering permit from the Environmental Health Division or they cater a private
party;
   (4)   Private parties;
   (5)   Property where a catering permit is obtained from the Environmental
Health Division.
(e)   To locate in a parking lot, there must be at least ten (10) parking
spaces in the parking lot. Mobile Food Units cannot cause parking and/or
traffic issues.
(f)   Exterior lighting must be shielded so that the light source does not
impact adjacent residential properties.
(g)   A Mobile Food Unit is limited to signs attached to the exterior of the
unit and one menu board that must be placed adjacent to the truck. The signs
must be secured and mounted flat against the unit and may not project more than
12 inches from the exterior of the truck.
(h)   During business hours, the Mobiel Food Unit shall provide a minimum
thirty (30) gallon trash receptacle for use by customers.
(i)   The Mobile Food Unit shall keep the area around the truck clear of litter
and debris at all times. Prior to leaving the location, the mobile food vendor
shall pick up, remove, and dispose of all trash generated by the unit's
operation.
(j)   Mobile Food Units shall not utilize tables and chairs for customer
seating unless it is a permitted outdoor event.
(k)   Mobile Food Units are not allowed in the right-of-way except in the
Central Business District as defined by the Official Zoning Map. If located in
Central Business District the following shall be allowed:
   (1)   Mobile Food Units are only allowed in the public right-of-way
surrounding Heritage Plaza and parking spaces surrounding Heritage Plaza when
it is in conjunction with a Main Street Sponsored Event, outdoor event permit,
or by reservation per requirements below.
   (2)   Mobile Food Units are allowed within the city parking lots located in
Downtown with applicable permits.
   (3)   Mobile Food Units are allowed within on-street parking Downtown with
applicable permits. Location of said parking is determined based on the
categories below:
      (a)   Peak-On-Street Parking areas directly adjacent to the East side of
Heritage Plaza along Green Street. These areas are only available Monday-Friday
8 a.m - 5 p.m. as long as Heritage is not rented for a private event.
      (b)   Off Peak-On-Street Parking areas on the East and West side of
Center Street and the West side of Fredonia Street in the block between the
railroad right-of-way and Bank Alley. These areas are only available Monday-
Friday after 5 p.m. and all day Saturday and Sunday as long as these areas are
not part of a special event permit.
(l)   If utilizing city facilities, permits must be obtained through the proper
departments.
(Ord. No. 4036, §3, 2-11-16; Ord. No. 4124, §3, 9-14-17;  Ord. No. 4306, §2, 4-
22-21)
Sec. 67-15.   Permit Required for Mobile Food Units.
(a)   No person, personally, by agent, or as the agent of another, may engage
in, transact, or conduct a mobile food unit business, either as principal or as
agent or employee of any other person, unless a valid permit has been issued by
all applicable departments.
(b)   No person may engage in, transact, conduct a mobile food unit business,
or allow mobile food unit vending, in violations of the terms and conditions of
all valid permits.
(Ord. No. 4036, §3, 2-11-16)
Sec. 67-16. Application for Permit for Mobile Food Units.
(a)   Any person desireing to engage in, transact, conduct the business or
occupation of mobile food unit vending within the City shall apply for a Mobile
Food Unit Certificate of Occupancy with the Development Services Department and
all applicable permits with the Environmental Health Division.
(b)   The application for a Mobile Food Unit Certificate of Occupancy shal
include:
   (1)   Name, address, telephone number, email address of the application
under which the business is operating.
   (2)   Square footage of the vehicle and license plate number.
   (3)   A checklist of all requirements set forth in this chapter signed by
the applicant acknowledging that they have read requirements.
   (4)   The required Mobile Food Unit Certificate of Occupancy fee, as
established by separate resolution, must be submitted with the application.
(Ord. No. 4036, §3, 2-11-16)
Sec. 67-17. Issuance of Permit for Mobile Food Units.
(a)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be granted:
   (1)   If the Mobile Food Unit is in compliance with this Chapter and Chapter
46 of the City of Longview Code of Ordinances.
   (2)   For an indefinite period of time unless the Mobile Food Unit changes
ownership, changes menu, or has work performed on the unit other than normal
maintenance. If any of the above occurs, a new Mobile Food Unit Certificate of
Occupancy must be applied for.
(Ord. No. 4036, §3, 2-11-16)
Sec. 67-18. Appeals.
A denial or revocation of a MFU permit may be appealed in accordance with the
provisions of Section 67-10 of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 4036, §3, 2-11-16)
"Article II. Solicitation."
Sec. 67-20. Title and Purpose.
(a)   This article may be known and cited as "Solicitation."
(b)   The purpose of this article is to protect the welfare of the citizens of
the City of Longview by prohibiting all solicitation by coercion, and creating
zones and areas of the City of Longview in which solicitation is prohibited.
Sec. 67-21. Definitions.
For the purpose of this article the following terms or words shall ahve the
meaning ascribed after them:
AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINE means a machine, other than a telephone, that is
capable of being operated by a customer of financial institution, by which the
customer may communicate to the financial institution a request to withdraw a
benefit for the customer or for another person directly from the customer's
account or from the customer's account under a line of credit previously
authorized by the financial institution for the customer, and the use of which
may or may not involve personnel of a financial institution.
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT SOLICITATION-FREE ZONE means the area of the City
bounded by the following street or portions of streets: North High Street on
the west, Marshall Avenue on the north, Sixth Street and Mobberly Avenue on the
east, and Cotton Street on the south.
COERCION means:
(A)   to approach or speak to a person in such a manner as would cause a
reasonable person to believe that the person is being threatened with:
   (1)   imminent bodily injury; or,
   (2)   the commission of a criminal act upon the person or another person, or
upon property in the person's immediate possession;
(B)   to persist in a solicitation after the person solicited has given a
negative response;
(C)   to block, either individually, or as part of a group of persons, the
passage of a solicited person, or,
(D)   to engage in conduct that would reasonably be construed as intended to
compel or force a solicited person to accede to demands.
EAST MARSHALL AVENUE SOLICITATION-FREE ZONE means an area bounded by and
including the following streets or portions of streets: East Marshall Avenue
from its intersection with Sixth Street and traveling eastbound on East
Marshall Avenue to its intersection with Industrial Boulevard, and the area on
each side of East Marshall Avenue for one-quarter mile traveling north and
south.
EXTERIOR PUBLIC PAY TELEPHONE means any coin or electronic card reader
telephone that is installed or located anywhere on a premises except
exclusively in the interior of a building located on the premises and
accessible and available for use by members of the general public.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT means an operation that stores, prepares, packages, serves,
vends, or otherwise provides food for human consumption.
LOOP 281 SOLICITATION-FREE ZONE means the area bounded by and including the
following streets or portions of streets: Loop 281 from its intersection with
Gilmer Road, eastbound to the North Eastman Road overpass, and one-quarter mile
each side of Loop 281, traveling north or south.
PARK means a reservation, playground, or recreation center owned, used, or
designated for and devoted to active or passive recreation.
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION STOP means an area designated as a place to wait for a
bus, or other public transportation vehicle.
SELF-SERVICE CAR WASH means a structure at which a vehicle may be manually
washed by its owner or operator with equipment that is activated by the deposit
of money or tokens in a coin-operated machine or by an electronic card reader,
and is accessible and available for use by members of the general public.
SOLICITATION means to ask, beg, solicit, or plead, by the spoken, written, or
printed word, or other such means of communication, for the purpose of
receiving contributions, alms, charity, money, or anything of value from
another person, regardless of the solicitor's purpose or intended use of the
money or thing of value, and regardless of whether consideration is offered.
WEST LOOP 281 SOLICITATION-FREE ZONE means an area bounded by and including the
following streets or portions of streets: West Loop 281 from its intersection
with Gilmer Road and traveling southwest on West Loop 281 to its intersection
with West Cotton Street, and the area on each side of West Loop 281 for one-
half mile traveling northwest and southwest.
WEST MARSHALL AVENUE SOLICITATION-FREE ZONE means an area bounded by and
including the following streets or portions of streets: West Marshall Avenue
from its intersection with Gilmer Road and traveling westbound on West Marshall
Avenue to its intersection with Fisher Road, and the area on each side of West
Marshall Avenue for one-half mile traveling north and south.
Sec 67-22. Solicitation by Coercion Prohibited.
(a)   A person commits an offense if the person conducts a solicitation by
coercion.
(b)   A person commits an offense if the person conducts a solicitation in any
outdoor area of the City between 6 o'clock p.m. and 8 o'clock a.m., on any day
of the week. It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection, subsection
(b), that the solicitation was being conducted exclusively on private property
with the advance written permission of the owner of the property.
(c)   Solicitation-free zones.
   (1)   A person commits an offense if the person conducts a soliciation at
any time in any outdoor area located within any of the following solicitation-
free zones:
      (A)   Central Business District Solicitation-free Zone.
      (B)   East Marshall Avenue Solicitation-free Zone.
      (C)   Loop 281 Solicitation-free Zone.
      (D)   West Marshall Avenue Solicitation-free Zone.
      (E)   West Loop 281 Solicitation-free Zone.
   (2)   It is a defense to prosecution under this subsection (c), if the
solicitation was being conducted exclusively on private property with the
advance written permission of the owner of the property.
(d)   A person commits an offense if he conducts any solicitation within 50
feet of:
   (1)   an automated teller machine;
   (2)   an entrance or exit of a bank, credit union, or other similar
financial institution;
   (3)   an exterior public pay telephone;
   (4)   a self-service car wash;
   (5)   a self-service fuel pump;
   (6)   a public transportation stop;
   (7)   a food establishment; or,
   (8)   a park.
(e)   For purposes of Subsection (d), measurement will be made in a straight
line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects, from the nearest
part at which a solicitation is being conducted to whichever is applicable of
the following:
   (1)   the nearest entrance or exit of a facility in which an automated
teller machine is enclosed or, if the machine is not enclosed in a facility, to
the nearest part of the automatic teller machine;
   (2)   the nearest entrance or exit of a bank, credit union, or other similar
financial institution;
   (3)   the nearest part of an exterior public pay telephone;
   (4)   the nearest part of the structure of a self-service car wash;
   (5)   the nearest part of a self-service fuel pump;
   (6)   the nearest point of a public transportation stop;
   (7)   the nearest part of an entrance or exit of a food establishment, or
the closest exterior wall to the place where the solicitation is being
conducted;
   (8)   any border of a park.
(f)   In addition to any enforcement action by a peace officer for a violation
of this section, any person who is a victim of a solicitation prohibited under
Subsection (a), (b), (c), or (d), or who witnesses a violation of Subsection
(a), (b), (c), or (d), may file a complaint. Evidence to support a conviction
for a violation of this section may include, but is not limited to, testimony
of witnesses, video or other electronic recordings of the violation, and other
relevant evidence.
Sec. 67-23. Culpable Mental State.
A culpable mental state is not required for the commission of an offense under
this article and need not be proved.
Sec. 67-24. Penalty.
(a)   An individual arrested or charged with an offense pursuant to Article II
of this Chapter or Sections 58-77 or 58-78 of Chapter 58, will be provided by
the City of Longview Municipal Court the opportunity to enter a non-profit
program designed or approved by the City of Longview Police Department, with
said program's primary goal of obtaining necessary drug, alcohol,
psychological, physiological, life skills and employment counseling and
assistance, and providing necessary skills and options for the arrested or
charged individual to secure needed housing, employment, life skills and
assistance.
(b)   If the defendant agrees to participate in and complete the program as
described in subsection (a), the defendant's case and all City of Longview
Municipal Court cases pending against the defendant shall be abated by the City
of Longview Municipal Court until the defendant successfully completes the
program or until the City Attorney's Office reports to the court that the
drfendant refuses to participate in the program or has failed to successfuly
participate in or successbully complete the program.
(c)   Upon successful completion of the program, and upon the recommendation of
the City Attorney, the court shall dismiss the case against the defendant.
(d)   If the defendant fails to successfully participate in or successfuly
complete the program described in subsection (a) above, the City of Longview
Municipal Court will summons the defendant to court enter a plea as to the
charges against the defendant, and either place the defendant upon a trial
docket, or, upon a pleas of guilty or or no contest, determine if the defendant
is or is not indigent.
(e)   Upon a determination that the defendant is indigent, the Court shall
sentence the defendant to perform community service pursuant to the provisions
of Chapter 45 of the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, or, if the defendant is
unable to perform community service, may waive the payment of fines and costs
pursuant also to the provisions of Chapter 45 of the Texas Code of Criminal
Procedure.
(f)   An offense under this section is punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. No. 4125, §2, 9-28-17)
Chapters 68 - 69
Reserved 
Chapter 70
Police
Article I. In General
Sec.
70-1.    Composition of force.
Sec.
70-2.    Office of Chief of Police created; appointment.
Sec.
70-3.    Execution of process; assistance to City Attorney.
Sec.
70-4.    Fingerprinting fee.
Sec.
70-5.    Crime lab fee.
Sec.
70-6.    Fee for criminal history check.
Secs.
70-7 - 70-18.    Reserved.
Secs.
70-80 - 70-70-95   Metal Recycling Entites
Article II. Reserved
Secs.
70-19 - 70.35.   Reserved.
Article III. Reserved
Secs.
70-36 - 70-50.  Reserved.
Article IV. Burglary and Robbery Alarms
Sec.
70-51.   Purpose and scope.
Sec.
70-52.   Definitions.
Sec.
70-53.    Permit required.
Sec.
70-54.    Duties of alarm user.
Sec.
70-55.    Duties of alarm company.
Sec.
70-56.    False alarms; service fees.
Sec.
70-57.   Alarm permit suspension and revocation; reinstatement.
Sec.
70-58.   Appeals.
Sec.
70-59.   Violation; fine.
Article V. Regulation of Secondhand Dealers and Secondhand Goods, Wares, and
Merchandise
Sec.
70-60.   Purpose.
Sec.
70-61.   Definitions.
Sec.
70-62.   License required.
Sec.
70-63.   Grounds for denial of license.
Sec.
70-64.   Revocation of license.
Sec.
70-65.   Hearings.
Sec.
70-66.   Appeal.
Sec.
70-67.   Renewal following revocation.
Sec.
70-68.   Transfer of license prohibited.
Sec.
70-69.   Required records and reports.
Sec.
70-70.   Retention period before resale.
Sec.
70-71.   Prohibited purchases.
Sec.
70-72.   Exemptions.
Secs.
70-73 - 70-79.   Reserved.
Article VI. Metal Recycling Entities
Sec.
70-80
.   Authority
Sec.
70-81.   Definitions
Sec.
70-82.   License required; posting of license.
Sec.
70-83.   Application and issuance or refusal of license.
Sec.
70-84.   License term and renewal
Sec.
70-85.   Revocation or suspension of license; appeals.
Sec.
70-86.   Purchasing regulated materials from the general public.
Sec.
70-87.   Purchasing or receiving goods from minors.
Sec.
70-88.   Records to be kept by metal recycling entities.
Sec.
 70-89.   Video record of transactions involving regulated materials.
Sec.
70-90.   Payment for purchases of regulated materials by metal recycling
entities.
Sec.
70-91.   Retention of regulated materials upon purchase by metal recycling
entity.
Sec.
70-92.   Notice to sellers.
Sec.
70-93.   Compliance with State law.
Sec.
70-94.   Fees.
Sec.
70-95.   Penalty.
Article I.
In General
Sec. 70-1.    Composition of force.
The police force of the city shall consist of the Chief of Police and such
number of police officers as the governing body may from time to time authorize
to be appointed. The police reserve force, referred to as "reserve officers,"
shall be limited to no more than 5% of the authorized police officer staffing.
Reserve officers shall be subject to all the rules, regulations, and orders as
police officers;
(Ord. No. 3286, § 48, 1-22-04; Ord. No. 4548, §2, 3-27-25)
Sec. 70-2.   Office of Chief of Police created; appointment.
There is hereby created the office of Chief of Police of the city. The Chief of
Police shall be appointed by the City Manager, subject to the approval of the
City Council.
(Ord. No. 3286, § 48, 1-22-04)
Sec. 70-3.   Execution of process; assistance to City Attorney.
The Chief of Police or any police officer, or any agent of the Chief of Police,
shall execute process issued from the municipal court, and shall assist the
City Attorney or the City Attorney's designee, when so required, in the
discovery of testimony and evidence in all cases prosecuted in the municipal
court and all cases in which the city is interested.
(Ord. No. 3286, § 48, 1-22-04)
Sec. 70-4.   Fingerprinting fee.
In accordance with Section 80.001 of the Texas Human Resources Code, there is
hereby established a fee for fingerprinting services to be provided by the city
police department. The amount of said fee shall be as established by resolution
of the City Council.
(Ord. No. 3286, § 48, 1-22-04)
Sec. 70-5.   Crime lab fee.
There is hereby established a fee for use of the city police department crime
laboratory. The amount of said fee shall be as established by resolution of the
City Council.
(Ord. No. 3286, § 48, 1-22-04)
Sec. 70-6.   Fee for criminal history check.
There is hereby established a fee for conducting a criminal history check of an
individual. The amount of said fee shall be as established by resolution of the
City Council.
(Ord. No. 3286, § 48, 1-22-04)
Secs. 70-7 - 70-18. Reserved.
Article II.
Reserved
Secs. 70-19 - 70-35. Reserved.
Article III.
Reserved
Secs. 70-36 - 70-50. Reserved.
Article IV.
Burglary and Robbery Alarms
Sec. 70-51.   Purpose and scope.
(a)   The purpose of this article is to:
   (1)   encourage alarm users and alarm companies to properly maintain the
operational effectiveness and proper utilization of alarm systems intended to
summon police;
   (2)   protect the emergency services of the city by reducing or eliminating
false alarms which may unduly divert law enforcement from responding to
criminal activity; and
   (3)   defray the costs of administering this article through alarm user
permit fees and false alarm charges.
(b)   The provisions of this article shall apply only to alarm systems intended
to summon police and which:
   (1)   send an alarm signal or alarm message directly to the police
department;
   (2)   send an alarm signal or alarm message to a location where the signals
or messages are or can be monitored and notification of the alarm is relayed to
the police department; or
   (3)   emits an audible or visual alarm signal that can be heard or seen on
the exterior of the premises.
(c)   The provision of this article shall not apply to alarm systems that are
not intended to summon police such as alarm systems:
   (1)   installed in a vehicle, unless the vehicle is used as a habitation at
a permanent site; or
   (2)   designed to alert only the inhabitants within the premises.
(Ord. No. 3075, § 2, 10-25-01; Ord. No. 3907, § 2, 12-12-13)
Sec. 70-52.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Alarm company. The full or part-time business by an individual, partnership,
corporation, or other entity of selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing,
repairing, altering, replacing, moving, installing or monitoring any alarm
system or causing to be sold, leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered,
replaced moved, installed or monitored any alarm system in an alarm site.
   Alarm coordinator.  The person designated by the Police Chief to administer,
control and review false alarm reduction efforts and to issue permits and
enforce the provisions of this article.
   Alarm notification. A notification to police that an alarm has been
activated at a particular alarm site.
   Alarm site. A single, fixed premise or location having one street address
served by an alarm system or systems. Each tenancy, if served by a separate
alarm system in a multi-tenant building or complex shall be considered a
separate alarm site.
   Alarm system.  Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged
to signal the occurrence of an illegal entry or other activity and intended to
summon police.
   Alarm user. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind who uses or is in control of an alarm system at its
alarm site.
   Automatic dialing device. An electrical, electronic, mechanical or other
device capable of being programmed to send a prerecorded message, when
activated, over a telephone line, radio or other communication system.
   Burglary alarm system. An alarm system signaling an entry or attempted entry
into the area protected by the system.
   Calendar year. A period of one year beginning at midnight on January 1 and
ending at midnight on December 31.
   Cancellation. The process by which an alarm company providing monitoring
verifies with the alarm user or responsible party that a false dispatch has
occurred and that there is not an existing situation at the alarm site
requiring a police response, and notifies the police department prior to the
arrival of the responding officer(s).
   Conversion.  The transaction or process by which one alarm company begins
monitoring of a previously unmonitored alarm system or an alarm system
previously monitored by another alarm company.
   Duress alarm.  A silent alarm system signal generated by the manual
activation of a device intended to signal a life threatening situation or a
crime in progress requiring a police response.
   False alarm.  An alarm notification to the police department, when the
responding officer finds no evidence of a criminal offense or attempted
criminal offense after having completed a timely inspection of the alarm site.
For the purposes of this article, this term does not include an alarm signal
caused by violent conditions of nature or other extraordinary circumstances not
reasonably subject to control by the alarm company or alarm user. Unless
otherwise provided, the Police Chief shall be the sole and exclusive judge of
whether an alarm is a false alarm for the purpose of this section.
   Permit year. The period beginning on the date of the issuance of an alarm
user's permit and extending for 12 months thereafter.
   Person. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, organization
or similar entity.
   Police Chief. The Police Chief for the city police department or his
designated representative.
   Police department. The city police department. For the purposes of this
article, this term includes the emergency communications center for the city.
   Robbery alarm system.  An alarm system designed to generate a silent alarm
signal by the manual activation of a device intended to signal a robbery in
progress.
   Takeover. The transaction or process by which an alarm user takes over
control of an existing alarm system, which was previously controlled by another
alarm user.
   Verify.  An attempt, by the alarm company or its representative, to contact
the alarm site by telephonic or other electronic means, whether or not actual
contact with a person is made, before requesting police response, in an attempt
to avoid the unnecessary dispatch of police.
(Ord. No. 3075, § 2, 10-25-01)
Sec. 70-53.   Permit required.
(a)   It is unlawful for an alarm user to operate, or cause to be operated, an
alarm system at its alarm site without a valid alarm permit issued by the alarm
coordinator. An alarm user permit is obtained from the police department and
entitles the holder to operate all burglary and robbery alarm systems at an
alarm site.
   (1)   The alarm user must submit an alarm permit application and permit fee
to the alarm coordinator within five days after the installation of an alarm
system or an alarm take-over. The alarm user must obtain a separate permit for
each alarm site.
   (2)   Unless otherwise indicated, persons making application for an alarm
permit must provide all of the information on the permit application. The alarm
coordinator shall deny or postpone the issuance or renewal of an alarm permit
until all required information is provided.
   (3)    The annual, nonrefundable alarm permit fee is set at fifty ($50)
dollars for residences and one-hundred ($100) dollars for businesses. Persons
65 years of age or older obtaining a permit for an alarm system operated at the
person's primary residence, where the person actually dwells, are exempt from
this fee.
   (4)    An alarm permit shall expire one year from the date of issuance, and
must be renewed annually by submitting an updated application and an annual
renewal fee as established by resolution of the city council, to the alarm
coordinator. The alarm coordinator shall notify each alarm user of the need to
renew 30 days prior to the expiration of the permit. It is the responsibility
of the alarm user to submit the renewal application prior to the expiration
date.
   (5)    An alarm permit cannot be transferred to another person or alarm
site. Persons performing a take-over of a permitted alarm system at an alarm
site must submit a new application and permit fee prior to operating the alarm
system.
   (6)   An alarm user shall inform the alarm coordinator of any change that
alters any information listed on the permit application within five business
days.
(b)    Alarm systems installed in apartment complexes are treated as follows:
   (1)    a tenant of an apartment with an alarm system shall obtain an alarm
permit from the alarm coordinator prior to operating or causing the operation
of an alarm system in the tenant's residential unit.
   (2)    the owner or property manager of an apartment complex shall obtain a
separate alarm permit for any alarm system operated in offices or common areas
of the apartment complex.
   (3)   for purposes of enforcing this article against an individual
residential unit, the tenant is responsible for false alarms emitted from the
alarm system in the tenant's residential unit.
   (4)    each apartment unit shall be considered a separate alarm site.
   (5)   the permit fee and false alarm fees as provided in this article shall
be the same as for all other alarm sites.
(c)   An alarm user required by federal or state statute, regulation, or rule,
to install, maintain and operate an alarm system is subject to this article and
payment of the same fees and fines.
(d)   An alarm user that is a governmental political unit or taxing entity
shall not be subject to this article or payment of the same fees and fines,
except that each governmental unit and taxing entity shall be required to
obtain an alarm permit.
(Ord. No. 3075, § 2, 10-25-01; Ord. No. 3171, § 2, 12-12-02; Ord. No. 3907, §
2, 12-12-13)
Sec. 70-54.   Duties of alarm user.
(a)   An alarm user shall:
   (1)   maintain the premises and the alarm system in a manner that will
minimize or eliminate false alarms; and
   (2)   not manually activate an alarm system for any reason other than an
occurrence of an event that the alarm system was intended to report; and
   (3)   operate the alarm system only if the system is functioning properly.
If the alarm coordinator determines that false alarm notifications are related
to a defect or malfunction in the alarm system, the alarm coordinator may
require the alarm user to produce a written report from a properly licensed
alarm company which has inspected the alarm system stating the probable cause
of false alarms and actions taken or recommendations for eliminating the false
alarms; and
   (4)   make every reasonable effort to respond or cause a representative to
respond to the alarm site within 30 minutes of being notified of an alarm
activation. The failure of an alarm user or representative to respond to an
alarm site after being notified of an alarm activation may result in the
forfeiture of the alarm users' right to appeal, a determination by the
responding officer(s) that an alarm was false and any service fee assessed as a
result of the alarm activation.
(b)   An alarm user shall adjust the mechanism or cause the mechanism to be
adjusted so that an alarm signal audible on the exterior of an alarm site will
sound for no longer than 15 minutes.
(c)   An alarm user of an alarm system that emits an alarm signal that is
audible or visible from the exterior of a structure shall adjust, or cause to
be adjusted, the alarm system so that upon activation, the alarm system will
not transmit another signal without first being reset.
(d)   An alarm user shall not operate an alarm system, as defined in this
article, which uses an automatic dialing device to summon police.
(e)   An alarm user shall maintain at each alarm site, a set of written
operating instructions for each alarm system.
(Ord. No. 3075, § 2, 10-25-01; Ord No. 3907, § 2, 12-12-13)
Sec. 70-55.   Duties of the alarm company.
(a)   Prior to alarm system activation, every alarm company selling, leasing or
furnishing to any user an alarm system that is subject to this article shall:
   (1)   furnish the user with a copy of this article;
   (2)   furnish the user with an application for an alarm user's permit;
   (3)   provide written instructions explaining how to operate the alarm
system properly;
   (4)   provide written information on how to obtain service for the alarm
system at any time; and
   (5)   provide training regarding the proper operation of the alarm system to
the alarm user and to the alarm user's employees or other persons designated by
the alarm user as authorized to operate the alarm system.
(b)   Upon enactment of this ordinance, alarm companies shall not install a
device activating a robbery alarm system that is a single action non-recessed
button. An alarm company must remove all single action non-recessed buttons
when a takeover or conversion occurs.
(c)   Each alarm company shall provide to the alarm coordinator a copy of its
state license and the name, address and phone number of a contact person. If
the alarm company has a local contact person, then the name, address and phone
number shall be provided to the alarm coordinator.
(d)   An alarm company which begins monitoring a previously unmonitored alarm
system or an alarm system previously monitored by another alarm company must
notify the alarm coordinator of the conversion at least three days prior to the
date of the conversion.
(e)   An alarm company or any person performing monitoring shall:
   (1)   attempt to verify an alarm signal from a burglary alarm system before
requesting a police response;
   (2)   communicate cancellations to the police department as soon as possible
following the determination that a police response is unnecessary;
   (3)   communicate the type of alarm activation (silent or audible; robbery,
burglary or duress; exterior or interior motion, etc.);
   (4)   communicate any available information about the specific location of
the alarm at the alarm site;
   (5)   endeavor to contact the alarm user or a representative when an alarm
notification is made and notify the police department of the time contact was
made or the lack thereof, and the intent of the alarm user or representative to
respond or to not respond to the alarm site. The alarm company shall also
furnish the police department with the name of the person contacted, the name
of the person responding, the estimated time of arrival and a description of
the vehicle driven by the responding person, if applicable.
   (6)   provide the police department with any other information about the
alarm and alarm site that may be deemed necessary for the safety of responding
officer(s) and administering this article.
(f)   The alarm coordinator may appeal to the Texas Department of Public Safety
Private Security Bureau to suspend or revoke an alarm company's license for
failure to comply with the duties listed in this section.
(Ord. No. 3075, § 2, 10-25-01; Ord. No. 3907, § 2, 12-12-13)
Sec. 70-56. False alarms; service fees.
(a)   All alarm notifications requiring a police response are characterized as
being either a legitimate alarm or a false alarm after inspection of the alarm
site by the responding officer(s).
   (1)   The following situations are considered to be legitimate alarms and
are not chargeable to the alarm user:
      a.   alarms activated due to criminal activity or attempted criminal
activity.
      b.   alarms activated as a result of weather (lightning, high winds,
etc.)
      c.   alarms activated due to a power outage or surge or damage to phone
lines.
      d.   alarms properly cancelled prior to the officer's arrival.
      e.   alarms activated as a result of police radio interference.
      f.   other situations where it is determined by the alarm coordinator
that the alarm user could not have reasonably prevented the alarm activation.
   (2)   The following situations are considered to be false alarms and are
chargeable to the alarm user if the police department responds to the alarm
site within 30 minutes of the alarm notification:
      a.   business alarms that are accidentally activated by an employee,
owner, cleaning crew or other persons legally at the alarm site; and
residential alarms that are accidentally activated by the homeowner, occupant,
or person who is legally at the residence.
      b.   alarms activated as a result of a domestic animal.
      c.   alarms activated due to heating or air conditioning blowers turning
on or due to the operation of other mechanical or electrical devices left
operating.
      d.   alarms activated due to falling stock or movement of hanging signs
or other objects.
      e.   alarms activated as a result of a malfunction in the alarm system.
      f.   alarms caused by any other condition that could have been reasonably
prevented by the alarm user.
(b)   An alarm user shall be subject to service fees and possible permit
suspension for an excessive number of false alarms at their alarm site.
   (1)   No service fee will be charged for the first three false alarms
occurring in a calendar year at an alarm site.
   (2)   Except as provided in Section 70-58 of this article, after the first
three alarms at an alarm site in a calendar year, an alarm user shall pay a
service fee for each false alarm occurring at their alarm site during the
remainder of the twelve-month period.
(c)   A service fee for false alarms may be imposed if a least three false
alarms have occurred in the preceding 12-month period. The amount of the
service fee for a false alarm will be established as follows:
   (1)   $50, if the location has had more than three, but fewer than six other
false alarms in the preceding 12-month period; or
   (2)   $75, if the location has had more than five, but fewer than eight
other false alarms in the preceding 12-month period; or
   (3)   $100, if the location has had eight or more other false alarms in the
preceding 12-month period.
(d)   Upon the determination that six or more false alarms have occurred at an
alarm site in a calendar year, the alarm coordinator shall make written notice
to the alarm user and the alarm company providing service of such fact and the
service fee(s) assessed. The notice shall also state that the user must either
appeal, as provided in Section 70-58 of this article, or pay the assessed
service fee(s) within 30 days of receipt of the notice. Failure to make timely
payment of fees shall result in the alarm permit being revoked.
(Ord. No. 3075, § 2, 10-25-01; Ord. No. 3907, § 2, 12-12-13)
Sec. 70-57.   Alarm permit suspension and revocation; reinstatement.
(a)   The alarm coordinator may suspend an alarm permit if it is determined
that:
   (1)   the alarm user failed to notify the alarm coordinator of any change
that alters any information listed on the permit application within five
business days, pursuant to Section 70-53(a)(6) of this article; or
   (2)   the alarm user failed on one or more occasions to comply with the
provisions specified in Section 70-54 of this article.
(b)   The alarm coordinator may revoke an alarm permit if it is determined
that:
   (1)   there is a false statement of a material matter or misrepresentation
in the alarm permit application;
   (2)   the permit holder has failed to make timely payment of a service fee
assessed under this article; or
   (3)   following reinstatement of the permit after suspension, there has been
an additional occurrence, in the same calendar year, of the violation(s) that
resulted in the previous suspension of the permit.
(c)   An alarm permit that has been revoked or suspended may be reinstated if
the alarm user:
   (1)   submits an updated, accurate permit application and, if revoked, pays
a nonrefundable reinstatement fee equal to the fee required for the issuance of
a new permit;
   (2)   pays, or otherwise resolves, all fees and fines assessed under this
article; and/or
   (3)   provides acceptable evidence that the cause(s) of the suspension or
revocation has been remedied. A finding in favor of the alarm user pursuant to
the appeal process provided for in Section 70-58 of this article is considered
to be acceptable evidence.
(d)   An alarm user shall immediately discontinue use of an alarm system upon
being notified of the suspension or revocation of an alarm permit. It is
unlawful for an alarm user to continue use of an alarm system after notice of
suspension or revocation of the alarm permit.
(Ord. No. 3075, § 2, 10-25-01; Ord. No. 3907, § 2, 12-12-13)
Sec. 70-58.   Appeals
(a)   An alarm user may appeal a false alarm determination and/or assessment of
a service fee by filing a written notice of appeal to the alarm coordinator
within five business days of receipt of the notice that a service fee(s) has
been assessed.
   (1)   The notice of appeal must state the date of the alarm being disputed
and the reasons why the alarm user believes the false alarm determination to be
incorrect.
   (2)   The alarm coordinator will make a determination in writing within five
business days of receipt of the notice of appeal.
   (3)   The determination of the alarm coordinator may be appealed to the
Police Chief if the appeal is made in writing within five business days of
receipt of the alarm coordinator's findings. If the Police Chief determines
that eight or more false alarms have occurred during the preceding 12-month
period, at the alarm site, the alarm permit shall be revoked unless the false
alarm fee(s) are paid. The decision of the Police Chief is final.
(b)   Except for revocations following an appeal as provided for in subsection
(a) of this Section 70-58, an alarm user may appeal the suspension or
revocation of an alarm permit to the Police Chief by filing a written request
for a hearing within ten days of receipt of the notification of permit
suspension or revocation.
   (1)   If a hearing before the Police Chief is requested, the alarm
coordinator shall notify the alarm user by certified mail of the time and place
of the hearing at least five days prior to the hearing date, which date shall
be not less than ten days after the filing of the request for a hearing.
   (2)   At the hearing, the alarm user may present written and oral evidence
as to the reasons the permit should not be suspended or revoked. The formal
rules of evidence do not apply at an appeal hearing and the Alarm Coordinator
may present any records or other evidence deemed probative by the Police Chief
or Alarm Coordinator.
   (3)   The Police Chief shall make a decision to uphold or overturn the
suspension or revocation based upon a preponderance of the evidence presented
at the hearing. If the suspension or revocation is upheld, the alarm user may
apply for reinstatement of the alarm permit as provided for under subsection
(c) of Section 70-57 of this article.
(c)   All administrative actions may be appealed to the City Manager or his
designated representative by giving written notice of such appeal to the City
Manager's office within ten days of such action. A record of the hearing before
the Chief of Police shall be submitted and may be supplemented in writing by
the parties to the appeal. The appeal to the City Manager or the City Manager's
designee shall be in writing, unless otherwise directed by the City Manager.
The decision of the City Manager or his designee shall be final..
(Ord. No. 3075, § 2, 10-25-01; Ord. No. 3907, § 2, 12-12-13)
 Sec. 70-59.   Violation; fine
(a)   A person commits an offense if he operates, or causes to be operated, an
alarm system at an alarm site without a valid permit.
(b)   A person who commits an offense in subsection (a) of this section is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500.00.
(c)   For the purposes of this article, an alarm notification shall be prima
facie evidence that the alarm user operated an alarm system at an alarm site.
(d)   The City of Longview City Council hereby dispenses with the requirements
of establishing a culpable mental state in order to prove a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. No. 3075, § 2, 10-25-01; Ord. No. 3907, § 2, 12-12-13)
Article V.
Regulation of Secondhand Dealers and Secondhand Goods, Wares, and Merchandise
Sec. 70-60. Purpose.
The purpose of this article shall be to curtail and prevent the sale of stolen
goods and the trafficking of stolen goods in the furtherance of criminal
activity within the city limits of the city and to regulate the operation,
record keeping, and reporting requirements for any business which engages in
the purchase, sale, barter, or trade of used or secondhand goods, wares, or
merchandise.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-61. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this article, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   Applicant shall mean a person who has applied for a license required under
this article and whose application for said license is pending.
   Business machines shall mean computers; associated computer equipment such
as modems, disk drives, and the like; word processors; dictating machines;
typewriters; adding machines; calculators; check-writing devices; cash
registers; addressing machines; letter sorters or folding devices; photostatic
copying machines; fax machines; and any other similar item of computing,
recording, copying, or accounting equipment generally used in the ordinary
course of business.
   Crafted precious metals shall mean jewelry, silverware, art objects or any
other thing or object made in whole or in part of gold, silver, platinum,
palladium, iridium, rhodium, osmium, ruthenium, or their alloys, excluding
coins, commemorative medallions or bullion or bars of such metals.
   Licensee shall mean a person in whose name a license has been issued under
this article.
   Person shall mean any individual, association, partnership, company,
corporation or group.
   Power tools shall mean tools powered by electrical current or by liquid or
gaseous fuels, including but not limited to welding equipment and pneumatic
equipment.
   Purchase shall mean a transaction in which a person takes title to regulated
property in exchange for valuable consideration.
   Secondhand dealer shall mean any person who, in the usual and ordinary
course of business, engages in the purchase, sale, barter, consignment, or
trade of used or secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise, but does not include
persons who accept the trade of a used product for a like product that is new
or has been remanufactured. For the purposes of this article, secondhand
dealers shall include:
   (1)   any business conducted by an established dealer of used or secondhand
goods, wares, or merchandise in a permanent location within the city; or
   (2)   any temporary or transient business where the dealer conducts business
within the city limits for the sale of used or secondhand goods, wares, or
merchandise for more than 30 days in one calendar year.
For the purposes of this article, any person who in the usual and ordinary
course of business engages in the purchase, sale, barter, consignment, or trade
of new goods as well as used or secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise, shall
be considered a secondhand dealer.
   Used or secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise shall mean any item of
personal property, which is not purchased or sold by a dealer as new or which
is acquired by a dealer after having been used or purchased by another. Used or
secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise shall include the following:
   (1)   all gold, silver or platinum jewelry; gold or silver flatware; gold,
silver and antique coins and paper money; fur coats or jackets; working musical
instruments, amplifiers and mixers, save and except such items as shall be
regulated in accordance with city code Sections 76-1 - 76-8;
   (2)   all firearms;
   (3)   microwaves and air conditioner window units;
   (4)   stereo systems and units; computers; televisions; radar detectors;
scanners; video recorders and players; cordless and cellular telephones; and
video game systems;
   (5)   powered dirt bikes and all terrain vehicles; major brands of fishing
rods and reels; boat motors and trollers; depth finders; bicycles with 20 inch
wheels and larger; and golf clubs;
   (6)   camcorders; major brand cameras which are 35 millimeter and larger;
   (7)   all functional power tools and pneumatic tools;
   (8)   commercial and industrial electronic test equipment;
   (9)   power lawn mowers; power trimmers; power edgers; leaf and grass
blowers; and chain saws.
This term shall not be construed to include goods, wares, or merchandise which
are purchased or sold as new by the original manufacturer, wholesale
distributor, or retail business.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-62. License required.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any secondhand dealer to transact or engage in
business within the city limits of the city unless and until said secondhand
dealer has obtained a license in conformance with this article and as provided
herein:
   (1)   a secondhand dealer desiring a license shall make written application
to the Chief of Police of the city upon forms provided by the police
department.
   (2)   the application must be signed and sworn to by the applicant before an
officer authorized by law to administer oaths.
   (3)   secondhand dealers are and shall be hereby required to pay an annual
license fee set by resolution of the City Council to the city police department
for issuance of the license.
   (4)   upon approval of the application by the Chief of Police and the
payment of the license fee as provided herein, a license shall be issued to the
applicant.
(b)    All secondhand dealers licenses required hereunder shall expire one year
from date of issuance. Upon expiration, licenses shall be renewed for
subsequent one year terms provided the applicant in all things complies with
the requirements of this article and pays an annual license fee set by
resolution of the City Council to the city police department.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00; Ord. No. 3242, § 12, 8-28-03)
Sec. 70-63. Grounds for denial of license.
The Chief of Police upon notice and hearing, may deny a license under this
article on one or more of the following grounds:
(1)   the applicant is under 18 years of age.
(2)   the applicant has made a false statement or misrepresentation of a
material fact on the sworn application submitted to the Chief of Police.
(3)   the applicant has been convicted of a felony or any drug or drug-related
or theft-related offense of a Class B misdemeanor level or higher and five
years have not elapsed since the termination of any sentence, parole, or
probation.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-64. Revocation of license.
The Chief of Police, upon notice and hearing, may revoke the license of any
secondhand dealer on any of the following grounds:
(1)   the licensee has made a false statement or a misrepresentation of a
material fact on the sworn application submitted to the Chief of Police.
(2)   the licensee has knowingly failed to make a report as required by this
article or has knowingly recorded false information of a material fact on a
report required by this article.
(3)   an employee or agent of the licensee has knowingly failed to make a
report as required by this article or has knowingly recorded false information
of a material fact on a report required by this article under circumstances
which indicate that the licensee knew or should have known of the actions of
the licensee's employee or agent.
(4)   the licensee has refused to allow the Chief of Police or any police
officer of the city to inspect the records required by this article or to
inspect as required by this article any used or secondhand articles purchased
by the licensee.
(5)   the licensee has violated any other provision or requirement of this
article.
(6)   the licensee has since the issuance of the license, been convicted of a
felony or any drug or drug-related or theft-related offense of a Class B
misdemeanor or higher.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-65. Hearings.
(a)   Where notice and hearing is required under Sections 70-63 and 70-64 of
this article, a minimum of ten days written notice of the hearing shall be
given to the applicant or licensee by certified mail, return receipt requested,
deliverable to the address shown in the application. No further notice shall be
required.
(b)   The Police Chief or the Chief's designee shall preside at any such
hearing, shall hear the evidence, and render a decision on denial or revocation
of the license. The applicant or licensee may have legal representation for
such hearing, and the City Attorney, at the Police Chief's request, may appear
and present evidence on behalf of the city. A record of the hearing shall be
made.
(c)   In considering evidence related to the denial of a license or revocation
of a license, the Police Chief shall hear evidence establishing a prima facie
violation of the article as set out in this article, and shall also consider
evidence of mitigating circumstances against denial or revocation of any such
license.
(d)   For those hearings dealing with denial of a license on the basis of
Section 70-63(c) or revocation of a license on the basis of Section 70-64(f),
the Police Chief, in considering the evidence for determining whether or not
denial of the license or revocation of the license is appropriate under this
article, shall consider the following evidence (as well as evidence
establishing prima facie that denial or revocation of a license is appropriate
under this article):
   (1)   the extent and nature of the applicant or licensee's past criminal
activity;
   (2)   the age of the applicant or licensee at the time of the commission of
the crime;
   (3)   the amount of time that has elapsed since the applicant or licensee's
last criminal activity;
   (4)   the conduct and work activity of the licensee or applicant prior to
and following the criminal activity;
   (5)   evidence of the applicant's or licensee's rehabilitation or
rehabilitative effort while incarcerated or following release;
   (6)   other evidence of the applicant's or licensee's present fitness,
including letters of recommendation from prosecution, law enforcement, and
correctional officers who prosecuted, arrested or had custodial responsibility
for the applicant or licensee; letters of recommendations from the sheriff and
Chief of Police in the community where the applicant or licensee resides; and
similar letters of recommendation from any other persons in contact with the
applicant or licensee.
(e)   Following close of the evidentiary portion of the hearing, and oral
arguments having been taken, the Chief of Police shall determine whether or
not, based on the evidence submitted, a license should be denied or revoked as
provided in this article, or whether or not, based on the evidence presented,
there are factual reasons or mitigating circumstances why such license should
not be denied or revoked.
(f)   In considering evidence under subsection (d) of this section, it shall be
the responsibility of the applicant or licensee to secure and provide to the
Chief of Police the recommendations of the prosecutorial, law enforcement, and
correctional authorities set out herein. The applicant or licensee shall also
furnish proof in such form as may be required by the Chief of Police that he or
she has maintained a record of steady employment and has supported his or her
dependents and has otherwise maintained a record of good conduct and has paid
all outstanding court costs, supervision fees, fines, and restitution as may
have been ordered in all criminal cases in which he or she has been convicted.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-66. Appeal.
Upon the denial of issuance of a license or revocation of a license, the Chief
of Police shall send written notice of such action to the applicant or licensee
by certified mail, return receipt requested. Said notice shall include the
licensee's right to appeal. The licensee may appeal the decision of the Chief
of Police to the City Council within ten days of receipt of the notice from the
Chief of Police. The action of the Chief of Police shall be final unless a
timely appeal is filed. The filing of the appeal stays the action of the Chief
of Police in revoking the license until the City Council renders its final
decision. The appeal before the City Council shall not be de novo, although
oral argument shall be permissible. The City Council shall in its review
consider those issues set out in Section 70-65 herein and shall review the
record of the hearing before the Chief of Police, and based on said record, and
oral argument as presented, may affirm, reverse, or modify the action of the
Chief of Police. The decision of the City Council shall be final, unless appeal
is made to a court of proper jurisdiction seeking review of the city's actions
in denial of the permit. Any such review shall be based upon a substantial
evidence standard for review.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-67. Renewal following revocation.
When a license is revoked as provided in this article, the revocation of said
license shall continue for a one year period, and the licensee shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date the revocation became final. If,
subsequent to the revocation, the Chief of Police finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the licensee may again be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
final. If the license was revoked under Section 70-64(f) of this article, the
licensee may not be granted another license until five years following the
termination of any sentence, parole, or probation.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-68. Transfer of license prohibited.
The license authorized hereunder is personal and no secondhand dealer shall
assign or transfer said dealer's license to another person or knowingly permit
said license to be used by another person and no person shall exhibit or use
the license of another secondhand dealer while engaging in the purchase, sale,
or trade of secondhand goods, wares, and merchandise. A licensee shall display
the license at all times in open view of customers and shall make said license
available for inspection at any time by any police officer.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-69. Required records and reports.
(a)   Any secondhand dealer doing business in the city or any employee or agent
of said dealer who purchases or trades for used secondhand goods, wares, or
merchandise in the city for the purpose of resale to the public shall at the
time of purchase record in a legible manner in duplicate on a sequentially
numbered report form the following information:
   (1)   an accurate and complete description of the article purchased,
including the type of property, brand name or manufacturer name, any serial
numbers or initials inscribed in or attached to the property, and any other
uniquely identifying marks or features of the property;
   (2)   the date and time of purchase;
   (3)   the amount of money paid or other consideration exchanged for the
property purchased;
   (4)   the name, date of birth, sex, race, and place of residence of the
person selling the article;
   (5)   the license number of the vehicle in which the article was delivered
to the secondhand dealer and the state that issued the license;
   (6)   the number of the drivers license, military identification card,
state-issued identification card, or federally-issued photo identification card
belonging to the seller, provided that a social security card shall not satisfy
this requirement;
   (7)   the signatures of the seller and the secondhand dealer.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for the secondhand dealer or any employee or agent
of said dealer to purchase or trade for any used or secondhand property unless
the seller of said property provides one of the forms of identification
required in subsection (a)(6) of this section and the secondhand dealer or his
employee or agent has verified that the photograph on the required
identification is that of the seller.
(c)   Any secondhand dealer who trades for or purchases used or secondhand
goods, wares, or merchandise from another licensed secondhand dealer shall be
required to record on the report form only the name or city license number of
the dealer in lieu of the information required in this section.
(d)   One copy of the completed report form shall be submitted to the city
police department within five working days from the time of the purchase or
trade. The second copy of the completed form shall be retained by the
secondhand dealer for a period of not less than 12 months. The reports required
herein shall at all reasonable times be open to inspection by the Chief of
Police or any police officer of the city.
(e)   It shall be unlawful for the secondhand dealer or any employee or agent
of the dealer to knowingly record false information of a material fact on a
report required by this section.
(f)   Each article of property purchased by a secondhand dealer shall be kept
intact and separate from property purchased from other sellers. Each article of
property shall have attached on the article a tag upon which is legibly printed
the corresponding number of the report form required by this section.
(g)   Each article of property purchased by any secondhand dealer shall be open
to inspection by the Chief of Police or any police officer of the city during
customary business hours and at all other reasonable times.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-70. Retention period before resale.
All used or secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise purchased by a secondhand
dealer shall be retained by said dealer in its original shape, form, and
condition for a period of 14 consecutive days after the purchase of same during
which period of time no part or portion of said secondhand goods, wares, or
merchandise shall be sold or removed from the place of business of said dealer.
The required holding period established herein shall not apply to used or
secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise purchased by one licensed secondhand
dealer from another licensed secondhand dealer, provided the secondhand dealer
initially purchasing said property shall have complied with the retention
period set out herein before selling said property to another licensed
secondhand dealer.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-71. Prohibited purchases.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any secondhand dealer to purchase or sell any
used or secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise which has had the
manufacturer's identification number, brand name or other identifying marks
removed, defaced, or altered, nor shall any secondhand dealer remove, alter or
deface any manufacturer's identification numbers, brand name, or other
identifying marks. Any such defaced or altered item of property found in the
possession of a secondhand dealer shall be subject to immediate seizure by the
police department.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any secondhand dealer to receive or purchase any
used or secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise from any person under the age
of 18 years, except upon the written consent of the parent or guardian of such
minor, and in that event, such consent shall be preserved as part of the
secondhand dealer's records for a period of not less than 12 months. To be
effective, any such written consent must as a minimum contain the signature of
the parent or guardian of the minor offering the property for sale and have
thereon the address and telephone number, if any, of such parent or guardian.
(c)   It shall be unlawful for any secondhand dealer to receive or purchase any
used or secondhand goods, wares, or merchandise from any person clearly under
the influence of alcohol or other intoxicants.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Sec. 70-72. Exemptions.
This article shall not apply to:
(1)   charitable, philanthropic, religious, fraternal, civic, patriotic, social
or school-sponsored organizations or associations or to any nonprofit
corporations or associations;
(2)   any person dealing solely in the purchase, sale or trade of used or
secondhand motor vehicles;
(3)   the occasional sale to the public of used or secondhand goods and wares
that have been used primarily for personal, family or household purposes by the
owner, if the seller, at the time of sale, is not engaged in the business for
profit of selling goods of that or of a similar nature, which shall include
garage sales conducted at a private residence and neighborhood garage sales;
(4)   public and private auctions;
(5)   sales made by any public officer in his official capacity as a trustee in
bankruptcy, executor, administrator, receiver, or public official acting under
judicial process or authority, or sales on the execution of or by virtue of,
any process issued by a court;
(6)   sales and purchases made by the United States, the state or the city or
any political subdivision, department or agency thereof;
(7)   used or secondhand articles which are deposited with or otherwise
actually delivered into the possession of a pawnbroker in the course of his
business in connection with a pawn transaction covered under the provisions of
the Texas Pawnshop Act, V.T.C.A. Article 5069-51.01, et seq.;
(8)   any sale or transaction dealing with precious metals or gems and governed
by city code Sections 76-1 - 76-8.
(Ord. No. 2900, § 2, 2-24-00)
Secs. 70-73 - 70-79.   Reserved.
Article VI.
Metal Recycling Entities
Sec. 70-80. Authority.
   This article is adopted pursuant to the authority of Texas Occupations Code,
Section 1956.003, as amended, and shall be interpreted with reference to that
code. It is the intent of this article to impose standards that are in addition
to and more stringent than the requirements of the Texas Occupations Code, but
which do not conflict with such state law.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-81. Definitions.
   In this article:
   Catalytic Converter means a device used to reduce the toxicity of emissions
from an internal combustion engine through the use of a catalyst (typically a
platinum-iridium catalyst) that converts the toxic combustion by-products into
less toxic gases or products, and any part thereof.
   Chief of Police means the Chief of Police of the City of Longview.
   Licensee means a person who holds a metal recycling business license issued
under this article.
   Metal recycling entity has the meaning given by Texas Occupations Code
Section 1956.001(7), as amended, and shall include non-fixed locations.
   Minor means any person under 18 years of age.
   Personal Identification Document means a photo identification document that
is (1) a valid driver's license issued by a state in the United States; (2) a
United States military identification card; or (3) a personal identification
certificate issued under Texas Transportation Code Section 521.101, as amended,
or a corresponding card or certificate issued by another state.
   Regulated material means any item composed in whole or in part of copper,
bronze, or platinum and any catalytic converter.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-82. License required; posting of license.
   A person may not act as a metal recycling entity or represent to the public
that the person is a metal recycling entity unless the person has a valid metal
recycling business license issued under this article. The license shall at all
times be posted in a conspicuous place upon the licensed premises.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-83. Application and issuance or refusal of license.
   (a) Any person desiring a license required by this article shall make
application in writing to the Chief of Police on an application form provided
by the city for that purpose. On the application the applicant shall set forth:
      (1) The full name and residential address of the applicant;
      (2) A statement indicating whether the applicant is a citizen of the
United States or an alien legally residing in the United States;
      (3) The applicant's driver's license number or the federal tax
identification number of the business;
      (4) The full name and address of each partner if the applicant is a
partnership;
      (5) The full name and address of each officer and director if the
applicant is a corporation or limited liability company;
      (6) The address of the fixed and permanent location where the business is
to be conducted and proof of ownership of the private property, or a written
statement including the name, address and telephone number of the property
owner, or authorized agent granting permission for operation of the business at
the proposed location where the business will be operated. If the property
owner is a partnership or corporation, the statement shall include the name,
address, and the telephone number of one of the partners or one of the
principals;
      (7) The regular days and hours of operation of the business;
      (8) The applicant's date of birth, place of birth, and each address where
the applicant has resided in the five years immediately preceding the
application;
      (9) A statement of whether the individual applicant, any partner in a
partnership, or any officer or director of a corporation or limited liability
company, has been arrested, charged, or convicted for any criminal offense in
this state or any other state or country. If the applicant has been arrested or
jailed for any criminal offense, the applicant shall list the offense or
offenses for which the applicant was arrested, jailed, or imprisoned, the date
or dates of confinement, and the place, court and case number of the case;
      (10) A statement that neither the applicant, nor any business partner,
nor in the case of a corporation, any officer or director, has had a license
governing the business described herein revoked;
      (11) The signature of the applicant;
      (12) A sworn statement that all matters stated in the application are
true and correct;
      (13) Evidence that the applicant is at least 18 years of age by
presentation of valid identification, including a photograph showing the face
of the applicant in the form of:
         a. A current driver's license from the State of Texas or another state
of the United States;
         b. An identification card issued by the Texas Department of Public
Safety, or a corresponding card or certificate issued by another state; or
         c. A United States military identification card; and
      (14) Such other information as the Chief of Police deems necessary.
   b. The Chief of Police shall review and approve the application and issue a
license unless the Chief of Police finds:
      (1) The information provided in the application is incomplete, materially
false or incorrect, or the applicant has failed in any material way to comply
with this article and applicable rules and regulations; or
      (2) The applicant had a license revoked during the preceding one-year
period.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-84. License term and renewal.
   A license for a metal recycling business shall be valid for one year from
the date of issuance and shall be subject to annual renewal.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-85. Revocation or suspension of license; appeals.
   (a) The Chief of Police may revoke or suspend a metal recycling business
license for any conduct contrary to this article, or an applicable state law or
regulation concerning the metal recycling business, including, but not limited
to the failure to maintain any record required by this article.
   (b) No license issued pursuant to this article may be revoked or suspended
without a hearing. Written notice of the hearing, the administrative action to
be taken, and the grounds therefore shall be given to the license holder by
certified or registered mail at least ten days prior to the hearing. Mailing of
such notice to the last known business address of the license holder shall
constitute sufficient notice. A record of such hearing shall be made. Within
ten days of the hearing, the Chief of Police shall make a written decision
setting forth the reason or grounds for such administrative action. Such
decisions shall be immediately mailed by certified or registered mail to the
license holder affected by the decision. The effective date of the revocation
shall be stated in the decision.
   (c) At the discretion of the Chief of Police, criminal prosecution,
suspension and/or revocation, may be pursued, provided, however, unsuccessful
or no criminal prosecution shall not preclude suspension or revocation.
   (d) Appeals from a decision by the Chief of Police shall be made by the
licensee in writing to the city administrator within 10 days of such decision.
The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall review the record and the
decision made by the Chief of Police. The City Manager or the City Manager's
designee may, in his or her discretion, hold a hearing upon proper notice to
the appealing party. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall make
a written decision upholding, modifying, or reversing the decision of the Chief
of Police. The decision of the City Manager or the City Manager's designee
shall be final.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-86. Purchasing regulated materials from the general public.
   A metal recycling entity may not purchase regulated materials from the
general public except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. through 9:00 p.m.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-87. Purchasing or receiving goods from minors.
   (a) No metal recycling entity shall purchase or otherwise receive in the
course of business any item, ownership of which is claimed by a minor, or which
may be in the possession or under the control of a minor, unless:
      (1) The minor is accompanied by his parent or guardian, who shall state
in writing that such transaction is taking place with such parent or guardian's
full knowledge and consent; or
      (2) The only items offered for sale by the minor are aluminum cans.
   (b) It shall be the duty of such metal recycling entity to preserve and keep
on file and available for inspection, such written statements of consent for a
period of no less than three years.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-88. Records to be kept by metal recycling entities.
   (a) Each metal recycling entity shall maintain a record of the following
information with respect to each transaction in which regulated materials are
purchased or received by the entity:
      (1) The date and time and place of receipt of any item;
      (2) The full name, current address and driver's license number or Texas
Department of Public Safety personal identification certificate number, of the
person or place of business from whom each item was received;
      (3) A clear right index fingerprint impression from the person from whom
the item is received;
      (4) A digital photograph of the person from whom the item is received and
a copy of a personal identification document reflecting that the person is at
least 18 years of age. A digital photograph of the person is not required if
the metal recycling entity makes a video recording of the transaction which
complies with Section 70-89 of this ordinance;
      (5) The license plate number of the motor vehicle and/or trailer or other
mode of transportation on which the item was delivered;
      (6) The location from which the regulated material was obtained, when it
was obtained and from whom;
      (7) A digital photograph of the regulated material. A digital photograph
of the regulated material is not required if the metal recycling entity makes a
video recording of the transaction which complies with the requirements of
Section 70-89 of this ordinance;
      (8) A description of the weight and type of materials received, and any
other information customarily employed in the sale and purchase of such
materials;
      (9) The name of the employee of the recycling entity who facilitates or
conducts the transaction;
      (10) The name and address of the seller, and the check number and amount
paid by the recycling entity in each transaction, if payment is by check.
   (b) The records required by this article shall be maintained in English and
must be completed no later than the end of the business day in which the
transaction occurs. The records shall be maintained in an electronic web based
format capable of uploading via the internet to a site designated by the Chief
of Police. The Chief of Police shall prescribe rules to implement the
electronic record keeping required by this section. Pending such rules the
recycling business entity shall maintain paper records of the required
information.
   (c) The records required by this section shall be maintained for a period of
at least three years following the date of transaction.
   (d) The licensee or employee of any metal recycling entity shall, upon
demand of any police officer of the City of Longview, during normal business
hours, exhibit and make available any records, books, business records,
receipts, or transaction record, of the metal recycling entity, which this
Article requires the metal recycling entity to maintain.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-89. Video record of transactions involving regulated materials.
   If the recycled metals purchaser makes a video recording of the seller of
regulated metals and the regulated materials purchased, the recycled metals
purchaser will not be required to take a digital photograph of the regulated
materials, as required by Section 70-88(a)(4) and 70-88(a)(7) of this Article.
Each video recording shall be maintained for a period of one year. The
recording shall clearly show the uncovered face of the seller of regulated
materials, the regulated materials involved in the transaction, and, any
vehicle transporting the seller and the regulated materials, including the
vehicle license plate. The Chief of Police shall prescribe administrative rules
to implement this requirement and provide such rules in writing to each metal
recycling entity. Each videotape shall be made immediately available to any
peace officer of the City of Longview upon request.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-90. Payment for purchases of regulated materials by metal recycling
entities.
   Each metal recycling entity shall provide a receipt to the seller on site at
the time of the regulated metals transaction, which records the date, time and
place of the transaction, a description of the regulated materials involved,
and the dollar amount of the transaction. Each metal recycling entity shall pay
for the purchase of copper, platinum, or any catalytic converter, with a check
and not with cash, said check to be mailed to the seller's address. Each metal
recycling entity shall maintain the canceled check and associated bank
statement for a minimum of one year from the date of issuance of the check.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-91. Retention of regulated materials upon purchase by metal recycling
entity.
   (a) All regulated materials purchased by a recycled metals dealer shall be
retained for a minimum period of five working days, exclusive of weekends and
state recognized holidays, at the metal recycling entity location, before the
regulated materials may be transferred from the metal recycling entity
location, treated chemically, placed in any recycling process, or physically
transformed in any manner.
   (b) Whenever a City of Longview police officer has reasonable cause to
believe that certain items of regulated materials in the possession of a metal
recycling entity are stolen, the Chief of Police or the designee of the Chief
of Police may issue a hold notice. The hold notice must identify the items of
regulated material alleged to be stolen and subject to hold, and inform the
recycled metals entity that the materials must not be removed from the metal
recycling entities' place of business for 60 days from the date of notice,
unless released earlier by the Chief of Police or the designee of the Chief of
Police. At the expiration of 60 days the hold automatically expires and the
metal recycling entity may dispose of the regulated material, unless otherwise
directed by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-92. Notice to sellers.
   Each metal recycling entity shall at all times maintain and display in a
prominent place within the business, in open view to the seller of regulated
materials, a sign with two-inch lettering that reads: "A PERSON ATTEMPTING TO
SELL ANY REGULATED MATERIAL MUST PRESENT SUFFICIENT IDENTIFICATION AS REQUIRED
BY CITY OF LONGVIEW ORDINANCE."
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-93. Compliance with State law.
   Each metal recycling entity shall comply with the requirements of Texas
Occupations Code Section 1956.021, as amended, to register as a metal recycling
entity with the State of Texas. Each metal recycling entity shall comply with
the requirements of Texas Occupations Code Section 1956.036, as amended, to
furnish required transaction reporting to the Texas Department of Public
Safety, within the required time frame.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-94. Fees.
   Each metal recycling entity applying for a metal recycling business license
shall pay an annual fee to the City of Longview; said fee being established by
separate resolution.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Sec. 70-95. Penalty.
   An offense under this section is a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to
exceed $500.00. It is hereby declared that the culpable mental state required
by Chapter 6.02 of the Texas Penal Code is specifically negated and clearly
dispensed with, and an offense under this section is declared to be a strict
liability offense.
   (Ord. No. 3684, § 2, 04-08-10)
Chapters 71 - 72
Reserved 
Chapter 73
Reserved
Chapters 74 - 75
Reserved 
Chapter 76
Precious Metals and Gems
Sec.
76-1.   Definitions.
Sec.
76-2.   Permit required.
Sec.
76-3.   Permit issuance, revocation and fee.
Sec.
76-4.   Bond required.
Sec.
76-5.   Permit not transferable.
Sec.
76-6.   Records of purchases.
Sec.
76-7.   Holding period required.
Sec.
76-8.   Purchases at temporary locations.
Sec.
76-9.   Advertising as prima facie evidence.
Sec. 76-1. Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter:
   Business means an activity carried on by any person who buys from or trades
with the public for used jewelry, money, silverware, or precious metal, as
defined in this section, for profit. The term "business" shall not include
occasional purchases, sales or trades made by a hobbyist, nor shall it include
activities regulated by the Texas Pawnshop Act (Article 5069-51.01, et seq.
Vernon's Annotated Texas Statutes). Further, the term "business" shall not
include either banks or dealers in gold or silver bullion, including minted
bullion.
   Dealer means any person who buys or trades for used jewelry, money,
silverware, or precious metal in the course of business.
   Money means money which has numismatic value.
   Permittee means a dealer who has been issued a permit hereunder.
   Person means any individual, corporation or partnership and includes the
plural.
   Precious gems includes, but is not limited to, such gems as diamonds,
sapphires, rubies, emeralds and pearls.
   Precious metal means gold, silver or platinum.
   Semiprecious gems includes, but is not limited to, such gems as jade,
tanzanite, tsavorite garnets and aquamarines.
   Silverware means silver or silver plated flatware, trays, goblets, dishes or
serving pieces.
   Temporary location means any place or premise which has not been hired,
rented, or leased for at least 30 days, in, upon and from which business is
conducted.
   Used jewelry means previously owned articles made from precious metals or
precious or semiprecious gems, or any combination thereof, and includes such
personal ornaments as watches, earrings, rings, pendants, chains, fobs,
broaches and necklaces.
(Ord. No. 1389, Art. I, 2-26-81)
Sec. 76-2. Permit required.
(a)   Any dealer who engages in the business of buying or trading for used
jewelry, money, silverware or precious metal shall possess a valid permit
issued in accordance with this chapter, before engaging in such business within
the city.
(b)   Any person desiring such a permit shall make application in writing to
the Chief of Police on a form provided for that purpose. Such form shall be
sufficient if it includes the following information:
   (1)   name, date of birth, address and business telephone number of
applicant and all employees;
   (2)   business address of applicant;
   (3)   normal business hours during which business will be conducted;
   (4)   location or locations where business will be conducted;
   (5)   whether or not the applicant, or any co-principal or employee has been
found guilty of any criminal offense defined in Title 7 of the Texas Penal Code
(or its equivalent in another state) by any court of competent jurisdiction
and, if so, the place where convicted and penalty imposed;
   (6)   whether or not the applicant has been or is currently a party to any
civil litigation arising out of sales or purchases of any goods or services
and, if so, the identity of other parties to the suit, the location of the
suit, and the status or outcome of the suit;
   (7)   whether the applicant has ever before engaged in business under an
assumed name and, if so, the name assumed by such business.
(c)   Any permittee who employs any person to engage in business and whose name
does not appear on such permittee's current application on file with the police
department shall, within three business days of such employment, amend said
application in writing to reflect the addition of said employee.
(d)   In the event the permittee desires to operate outside of the normal
business hours specified in the permit, he shall notify the Chief of Police in
writing in advance of such operation.
(e)   It shall be unlawful to knowingly give false information on an
application.
(Ord. No. 1389, Art. I, 2-26-81)
Sec. 76-3. Permit issuance, revocation and fee.
(a)   Upon receipt of the application, the Chief of Police shall issue a permit
upon the payment of a fee set by resolution of the City Council; provided,
however, no permit shall be issued to any applicant if the applicant has been
found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction, within the preceding ten
years, of the violation of any provision of this chapter or of a criminal
offense against property defined in Title 7 of the Texas Penal Code, provided
further that violation of any provision of this chapter shall be grounds for
denial of such permit. Permits issued hereunder shall be valid for a period of
one year from the date of issuance.
(b)   A permit issued hereunder may be revoked, or suspended, for up to six
months by the Chief of Police for violation of any provision of this chapter or
if a permittee is found guilty of a criminal offense defined in Title 7 of the
Texas Penal Code or its criminal equivalents in another state by a court of
competent jurisdiction. A permit that has been revoked or suspended shall not
be reissued unless the applicant is currently qualified under the terms of this
chapter to receive a license. A permit shall be revoked if the permittee fails
to meet any of the necessary qualifications to receive a permit. Within ten
days of such revocation or suspension by the Chief of Police, the permittee
shall have the right of appeal to the City Council whose decision shall be
final. A written statement setting for the basis for such appeal shall be filed
with the City Secretary within the ten-day time period.
(c)   Upon receipt of an application, the Chief of Police may, upon request,
issue a temporary permit upon the payment of a fee set by resolution of City
Council which shall be issued upon the same terms and conditions as one-year
permits but which shall only be valid for 30 days form the date of issuance.
(d)   Any permit issued hereunder shall be prominently displayed at the place
of business so as to be plainly visible by persons transacting business with a
dealer.
(Ord. No. 1389, Art. I, 2-26-81; Ord. No. 3242, §14, 8-28-03)
Sec. 76-4. Bond required.
A bond in the sum of not less than $5,000.00 cash or a surety bond through a
solvent surety company authorized to do business in the state executed by the
applicant for a permit or his authorized representative, conditioned that the
principal and surety shall pay all damages to any person caused by or arising
out of the wrongful, fraudulent, or illegal conduct of the applicant or his
agents or employees while conducting business as defined by this chapter, shall
be required prior to the issuance of any permit hereunder. Said bond shall
remain in full force and effect during the permit period. Failure to maintain a
sufficient bond shall be grounds for the revocation or suspension of any
permit.
(Ord. No. 1389, Art. 1, 2-26-81)
Sec. 76-5. Permit not transferable.
A permit granted hereunder shall not be transferable.
(Ord. No. 1389, Art. 1, 2-26-81)
Sec. 76-6. Records of purchases.
(a)   Upon the purchase from or trade with any person or persons of any goods
defined in Section 76-1 herein, permittees shall record in a well bound book
kept exclusively for such purpose, the following information:
   (1)   the name, address, age, sex, race, height, weight, color of hair, and
driver's license number or personal identification certificate issued by the
state department of public safety, of the person or persons selling or trading
any used jewelry, money, silverware or precious metal.
   (2)   a description of the property purchased, including the name of maker
and serial number, if available, and all other identifiable characteristics,
such as type, number and size of gems and type and color of metal.
(b)   No permittee shall purchase or trade for any used jewelry, coins,
silverware or precious metal from any person or persons under the age of 17
years.
(c)   A permittee purchasing used jewelry, coins, silverware or precious metal
shall obtain a signed warranty from the seller that the seller has the right or
authority to sell the property, which statement shall be retained and recorded
by the permittee.
(d)   All books and records required to be kept under the terms herein shall be
open to inspection at all reasonable hours by any bona fide peace officer.
(e)   All books and records required to be kept under the terms herein shall be
maintained continuously at the permittee's place of business for a minimum of
two years.
(Ord. No. 1389, Art. 1, 2-26-81)
Sec. 76-7. Holding period required.
No dealer shall sell, trade, alter or dispose of any precious metal, or jewelry
unless at least five working days has elapsed since the purchase of such goods.
For purposes of this section, working days shall be defined as Monday through
Friday, exclusive of such days recognized as national holidays. A record shall
be kept of all items sold, traded or otherwise disposed of.
(Ord. No. 1389, Art. 1, 2-26-81)
Sec. 76-8. Purchases at temporary locations.
Any dealer who conducts business from a temporary location within the city and
who does not maintain a permanent location within the city, shall deliver the
records of purchases to the Chief of Police within 24 hours of terminating the
temporary location.
(Ord. No. 1389, Art. I, 2-26-81)
Sec. 76-9. Advertising as prima facie evidence.
It shall be prima facie evidence that a person is engaged, as a dealer, in the
business of buying or trading for used jewelry, money, silverware or precious
metals if said person advertises that he buys or trades for used jewelry,
money, silverware or precious metals.
(Ord. No. 1396, Art. I, 3-26-81)
Chapters 77 - 78
Reserved
Chapter 79
Public Amusements
Article I. Outdoor Events
Sec.
79-1.   Definitions.
Sec.
79-2.   Prohibited acts.
Sec.
79-3.   Application for permit.
Sec.
79-4.   Reports.
Sec.
79-5.   Conditions for permit.
Sec.
79-6.   Denial of permit; grounds.
Sec.
79-7.   Revocation of permit.
Sec.
79-8.   Permit denial or revocation hearing.
Sec.
79-9.   Permit posting.
Sec.
79-10.   Exceptions.
Sec.
79-11.   Penalty.
Article II. Parades
Sec.
79-12.   Definitions.
Sec.
79-13.   Permit required; exceptions.
Sec.
79-14.   Application.
Sec.
79-15.   Standards for issuance.
Sec.
79-16.   Notice of rejection.
Sec.
79-17.   Appeal procedure.
Sec.
79-18.   Alternative permit.
Sec.
79-19.   Notice of city and other officials.
Sec.
79-20.   Contents of permits.
Sec.
79-21.   Duties of permittee.
Sec.
79-22.   Public conduct during parades.
Sec.
79-23.   Revocation of permit.
Sec.
79-24.   Indemnity and bond.
Sec.
79-25.   Offenses.
Sec.
79-26.   Injunctive relief.
Sec.
79-27.   Penalty.
Sec.
79-28.   Reserved.
Article III. Reserved
Secs.
79-29 - 79-41. Reserved.
Article IV. Reserved
Secs.
79-42 - 79-47. Reserved.
Article I.
Outdoor Events
Sec. 79-1.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Amplified sound. Music, speech or sound projected or transmitted by
artificial means, including but not limited to amplifiers, loud speakers or any
similar devices which emit sound.
   Building Official. The Building Official of the city or his or her designee.
   Chief of Police. The Chief of Police of the city or his or her designee.
   Nonprofit organization.  An organization established for the good of the
community, duly authorized by the state, and not established for the profit of
private citizens.
   Outdoor event. Any temporary outdoor activity or gathering, either on public
or private property, that is open to the public for the purpose of amusement or
recreation:
   (1)   where any of the participants or any of the audience are not located
within a permanent structure; including any festival, carnival, circus, tent
show; exhibits or concerts; and
   (2)   where the event is to occur on property located within the city.
   Performer. Any person making a public presentation or exhibition.
   Permitee.  The promoter, sponsor, organizer, or their representative who is
responsible for obtaining the permit and for compliance with all requirements
of this chapter.
   Promoter. Any person, firm or corporation who attempts to organize, promote
or solicit funds for the organization or promotion of an outdoor event by
advertisement to the public.
   Statement. Written, or electronically transferred data or information.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-2.   Prohibited acts.
(a)   No person may direct, control or participate in the production of an
outdoor event unless a valid permit for the event has been issued as provided
in this article.
(b)   No person may direct, control or participate in the production of an
outdoor event in violation of the terms and conditions of a valid permit issued
in accordance with this article.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-3.   Application for permit.
(a)   A promoter desiring to hold an outdoor event shall file a written permit
application with the Building Official.
(b)   The original application must be filed at least 60 calendar days before
the day the event is to be held. Failure to meet the filing requirement may
result in denial of the application. The Building Official may waive this
requirement if all other conditions of this article are met. No tickets to any
outdoor event in the city shall be sold or distributed prior to the issuance of
a permit for the event by the Building Official.
(c)   The permit application shall include the following information:
   (1)   the name, telephone number(s) and address of the promoter;
   (2)   a detailed description of the proposed event;
   (3)   a description and the address of the premises where the event is to be
held;
   (4)   a site plan of the event shall show:
      a.   the dimensions of the area to be used and its relationship to other
structures or buildings on the property;
      b.    the location of all structure(s) or facilities to be added,
including but not limited to, tents, stands, booths, rides, bleachers, seating
areas, stages, animal pens;
      c.   sanitary facilities including location and number of portable or
permanent restrooms, wastewater collection, trash collection;
      d.   electrical installations including any temporary power poles,
generators, or other electrical provision;
      e.   potable water source such as location of any water connections to be
used or the availability of bottled water;
      f.   location, distance from adjacent structures, and quantity of any
flammable or combustible materials such as propane, gasoline, fireworks,
sawdust, or fire wood to be used at the event;
      g.   type, number, and location of fire extinguishers;
      h.   parking areas and routing of traffic in the area;
      i.   any and all street closures;
      j.   location and method of housing any animals that are part of the
event; and,
      k.   location of any amplified sound equipment and estimated effect of
the sound;
   (5)   the name and address of the owner of the premises where the event is
to be held and a statement describing the terms and conditions of the agreement
whereby the promoter is authorized to use the land;
   (6)   a written statement from the owner(s) of the premises acknowledging
responsibility for cleaning up the property and surrounding rights-of-way as
may be applicable, including charges assessed by the city for expenses incurred
by the city. A bond for clean up may be required by the city. The owner shall
provide an address and telephone numbers where he or she may be contacted;
   (7)   the dates and times that the event is to be held;
   (8)   the maximum number of persons that the promoter will allow to attend
the event and a statement showing how the promoter plans to control the number
of persons in attendance at the event. The Building Official or the Chief of
Police may require a security plan;
   (9)   provisions for emergency medical and health care services that may be
required by the city;
   (10)   a statement identifying who is providing any food service that might
be included in the event;
   (11)   provide any documentation required by the animal control authority to
demonstrate compliance with all local ordinances, state or federal laws related
to any animals that are a part of the event;
   (12)   any additional information that may be required to demonstrate that
the promoter's preparations for the event are designed to comply with the
standards for a certificate of occupancy and all other requirements of the
applicable chapters of the Code of the city, including but not limited to the
provisions of the "fire code," "health code," "building code," "electrical
code," and "zoning" chapters of said Code; and
   (13)   a complete listing of similar events the applicant has promoted in
the three years, including the date, time and location of each.
(d)   The required permit fee, as established by separate resolution, must be
submitted with the application.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-4.   Reports.
(a)   Upon the filing of an application for a permit under this article, the
Building Official shall forward a copy of said application to the Director of
Development Services, Environmental Health Department, police department, and
fire department.
(b)   The departments listed in subsection (a) above shall make a written
report to the Building Official. The report shall state whether the
preparations described in the application, if carried out, would be sufficient
to protect the community and the persons attending the outdoor event from
health dangers, public safety and traffic control hazards, and to avoid
violations of applicable state statute or city ordinance as said laws currently
exist and as they may hereafter be amended.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02; Ord. No. 4036, §4, 2-11-16)
Sec. 79-5.   Conditions for permit.
The Building Official may impose reasonable conditions or restrictions on the
granting of a permit, including but not limited to any of the following:
(a)   Restrictions on fires; fireworks; amplified sound; the use of alcoholic
beverages; sports; the use of animals, equipment or vehicles; the number of
persons to be present; the location of any bandstand or stage; or any other
activity which appears likely to create a risk of unreasonable harm to the
public;
(b)   A requirement that the permitee carry a minimum of $500,000.00 per
occurrence in commercial general liability naming the city, their officers,
agents, and employees as additional insured for claims occurring in city
rights-of-way. The applicant shall also pay a reasonable deposit of security or
provide a bond for the repair of any damage to city property, the cost of
clean-up, or both when so determined by the Building Official based on the
information provided in the application for permit of the proposed outdoor
event;
(c)   A requirement that the permitee make provision for furnishing adequate
forces for security and traffic control at the proposed use or activity. The
permitee shall provide for an adequate number of peace officers or security
officers licensed by the state and licensed emergency medical personnel, for
the event, based upon the anticipated number of attendees and the nature of the
event. The permitee shall assume all costs for adequate forces for security and
traffic control, as well as the cost for any emergency medical personnel
required for the proposed event;
(d)   A requirement that the permittee furnish additional sanitary and refuse
facilities that might be reasonably necessary based on the use or activity for
which the permit is being sought;
(e)   A requirement that the permitee comply with all applicable local, state
and federal law, as well as commonly acknowledged procedures for the legal and
humane treatment of animals; and
(f)   The requirement that the permitee is responsible for supplying all
necessary traffic control plans and devices such as barricades, warning signs,
or road closure signs in accordance with all applicable local and state laws.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-6.   Denial of permit, grounds.
(a)   Application for an outdoor event shall be granted to an applicant by the
Building Official within 15 business days of the filing of the application
unless the Building Official finds from a preponderance of the evidence
presented that:
   (1)   false or misleading information is contained in the application or
required information is omitted;
   (2)   the preparations specified in the application are insufficient to
protect the community or the persons attending the event from health dangers or
to avoid violations of state or local law;
   (3)   the city, upon investigation, determines the promoter has failed to
comply with the requirements of an agreement with any city from a previously
scheduled event, or has failed to adhere to all requirements of law in
conducting a previous event;
   (4)   the times and place for the event create a substantial danger of
traffic or pedestrian congestion and disruption of other lawful activities;
   (5)   the preparations specified in the application are insufficient to
limit the number of persons in attendance at the event to the maximum number
stated in the application;
   (6)   the preparations specified in the application fail to meet the
requirements for a certificate of occupancy and all other requirements of the
applicable chapters of the Code of the city, including but not limited to the
provisions of the "fire code" and "zoning" chapters of said Code, and the
applicable requirements of the Texas Food Establishment Rules where food or
beverages will be offered for sale or consumption as said ordinances, laws or
rules currently exist and as they may hereafter be amended;
   (7)   the event would violate any applicable federal, state or municipal
law;
   (8)   the preparations fail to meet the conditions which the Building
Official has required pursuant to the conditions for permit established by
Articles I and II;
   (9)   the proposed event would conflict with another event regulated by this
article;
   (10)   the applicant has failed to pay past fees associated with an outdoor
event;
   (11)   the applicant has committed any violation of a provision of this
article within the previous 12 months; or
   (12)   the event does not comply with applicable zoning ordinances and/or
restrictions of the city.
(b)   Any application denied under subsection (a) above may be amended within
five business days of the denial. Any amended application shall be reprocessed
under said subsection (a) above as if an original application but without an
additional fee being assessed.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-7.   Revocation of permit.
At any time the Building Official, or other official of the police, fire, or
environmental health department may, after written notice to the promoter,
revoke the permit on a finding that the preparations for the event will not be
carried out as stated in the application or the conditions imposed by the
permit will not be met.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-8.   Permit denial or revocation hearing.
(a)   Every denial or revocation of a permit under this article shall be in
writing, dated and shall state the reason for such action. Said notice shall
immediately be sent to the applicant/permittee by certified mail, or shall be
personally delivered to such person.
(b)   Any applicant/permittee may, within ten business days after the date of
the notice provided for in subsection (a) above, submit to the City Manager a
written request for a hearing to show cause as to why the permit should be
granted or should not be revoked, as the case may be. Such request shall not
stay the denial or revocation. A hearing shall be scheduled within five
business days of such request and notice shall be immediately given to all
affected parties.
(c)   Following the hearing, the City Manager or the City Manager's designee
shall render a written decision granting or denying the application, or
reinstating or revoking the permit, as the case may be. The decision shall be
immediately given to all affected parties.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-9.   Permit posting.
Permits required by this article shall be publicly posted in the area where the
activity is conducted or produced and shall be exhibited upon demand to any law
enforcement officer or city ordinance enforcement official. The posted permit
shall have emergency contact information for the person(s) responsible for the
operation of the event.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-10.   Exceptions.
The provisions of this article shall not apply to the following:
(a)   an event held in a location for which a certificate of occupancy has
already been granted and/or a final inspection, as applicable, has already
occurred, if the event complies with the certificate of occupancy and violates
no federal, state or municipal law;
(b)   non-profit organizations such as, by way of example only, but not limited
to schools, churches, synagogues, or other places of worship, when the event is
solely owned and operated by the non-profit entity and the event, including
parking, is conducted exclusively on property belonging to the non-profit
entity;
(c)   neighborhood crime-watch meetings, or block parties;
(d)   scheduled events held exclusively on property owned by the City of
Longview and controlled by the City of Longview parks and recreation
department, the City of Longview Community Services Department or the Longview
Activity Center, when approval has been obtained from the Director of the Parks
and Recreation Department, the Director of Community Services or the Manager of
Operations of the Longview Activity Center, prior to the event; or,
(e)   an event held exclusively on property owned by a county, such as Gregg
County or Harrison County, when the event is held with permission of the
county.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02; Ord. No. 3286, § 49, 1-22-04; Ord. No. 4036, §5,
2-11-16)
Sec. 79-11.   Penalty.
Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee thereof who violates any of
the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined an amount not to exceed $2,000.00 for each
offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. The City Council hereby dispenses with the requirement of
establishing a culpable mental state in order to prove a violation of this
section.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 3, 10-10-02)
Article II.
Parades
Sec. 79-12.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Chief of Police.  The Chief of Police of the city or the designee of the
Chief of Police.
   Parade.  Any march or organized procession of any kind, of three or more
persons, with or without vehicles, in or upon any street, park or other outdoor
places owned or under the control of the city.
   Person. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-13.   Permit required; exceptions.
(a)   No person shall engage in, participate in, form or start any parade,
unless a parade permit shall have been obtained from the Chief of Police.
(b)   Articles I and II shall not apply to:
   (1)   a funeral procession supervised by a licensed mortuary; or
   (2)   picketing or other orderly procession(s) occupying no more than one-
half of the width of the sidewalks that do not violate any other state, federal
or municipal laws.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-14.   Application.
A person seeking the issuance of a parade permit shall file an application with
the Chief of Police.
(a)   An application for a parade permit shall be filed with the Chief of
Police not less than ten calendar days, prior to the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade. The application must be signed by the applicant
for it to be processed.
(b)   The application for a parade permit shall set forth the following
information:
   (1)   the name, address and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct such parade;
   (2)   if the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on and behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of such
organization;
   (3)   the name, address and telephone number of the person who will be the
parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
   (4)   the date when the parade is to be conducted;
   (5)   the route to be traveled, the starting point and the termination
point;
   (6)   the approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles, which will
constitute such parade including the type of animals and description of the
vehicles;
   (7)   the hours when such parade will start and terminate;
   (8)   a statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a portion
of the width of the streets proposed to be traversed;
   (9)   the location by streets of any assembly areas for such parade;
   (10)   the time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at any
such assembly area or areas;
   (11)   if the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of, or for any
person other than the applicant for such permit, the applicant shall file with
the Chief of Police a communication in writing from this person proposing to
hold the parade, authorizing the applicant to apply for the permit on their
behalf; and,
   (12)   the required filing fee will be set by separate resolution, and must
be submitted at the time the application is submitted.
(c)   The Chief of Police, where good cause is shown therefore, shall have the
authority to consider any application hereunder which is filed less than ten
calendar days before the date such parade is proposed to be conducted.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-15.   Standards for issuance.
(a)   The Chief of Police shall issue a permit for the proposed parade within
three business days of receipt of an application, unless they find that:
   (1)   the conduct of the parade will substantially interrupt the safe and
orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (2)   the conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
of the parade and of contiguous areas, so that adequate police protection
cannot be provided the remainder of the city;
   (3)   the conduct of the parade will require the diversion of so great a
number of ambulances, so that adequate ambulance service to portions of the
city not occupied by the parade and contiguous areas will be prevented;
   (4)   the concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will substantially interfere with adequate fire and police
protection of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to such assembly
areas;
   (5)   the conduct of the parade is reasonably likely to result in violence
to persons or property causing serious harm to the public;
   (6)   the parade is to be held for the primary purpose of advertising a
product, goods or event, and is designed to be held primarily for private
profit;
   (7)   the conduct of the parade will interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment to such an extent that adequate fire protection cannot
be provided to the city; or
   (8)   the movement of the parade will conflict in time and location with
another parade, a permit for which has been granted.
(b)   The Chief of Police may impose reasonable conditions or restrictions on
the granting of a permit, including, but not limited to, any of the following:
   (1)   a requirement that the applicant post a reasonable deposit of security
for the repair of any damage to city property or cost of clean-up or both; or
   (2)   a requirement that the applicant pay a reasonable fee to defray the
cost of furnishing adequate police, emergency medical personnel, and street
department personnel and/or equipment.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-16.   Notice of rejection.
The Chief of Police shall act upon the application for a parade permit within
three business days after the filing thereof. If the Chief of Police
disapproves the application, they shall mail to the applicant, by registered
mail, or have served upon the applicant, within three business days after the
date upon which the application was filed, a notice of their action stating the
reasons for their denial of the permit.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02; Ord. No. 4036, §6, 2-11-16)
Sec. 79-17.   Appeal procedure.
Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Manager. The appeal shall be taken within 24 hours after
receipt of the notice of denial. The City Manager or the City Manager's
designee shall act upon the appeal within 24 hours after its receipt.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-18. Alternative permit.
The Chief of Police, in denying any application for a parade permit, shall be
empowered to authorize the parade on a date, at a time or over a route
different from that named by the applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an
alternative permit shall within two business days after notice of the action of
the Chief of Police, file a written notice of acceptance with the Chief of
Police. An alternate parade permit shall conform to the requirements of, and
shall have the effect of a parade permit under Articles I and II.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-19.   Notice of city and other officials.
Prior to the issuance of a parade permit, the Chief of Police shall send a copy
of the application to the following:
   the Director of Development Services;
   the Director of Community Services;
   the Public Safety Communications Manager;
   the City Attorney;
   the Fire Chief; and
   the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02; Ord. No. 4036, §7, 2-11-16)
Sec. 79-20. Contents of permits.
Each parade permit shall state the following minimum information:
(a)   date of parade;
(b)   starting time and termination time of parade;
(c)   the portions of the streets to be traversed that may be occupied by the
parade;
(d)   the number of persons, animals and motor vehicles that will be in the
parade; and
(e)   such other information as the Chief of Police shall find reasonably
necessary to promote the health, safety, and general welfare of the general
public in the enforcement of Articles I and II.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-21. Duties of permittee.
A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other person
heading or leading such activity shall carry the parade permit upon their
person during the conduct of the parade, and shall present said permit to any
peace officer upon request.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-22.   Public conduct during parades.
(a)   No person shall hamper, obstruct or impede, or interfere with any parade,
or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or animal participating or used
in a parade.
(b)   No driver of any vehicle shall drive, nor shall any person walk or stand
between or alongside the vehicles or persons comprising a parade while such
vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously designated as a parade,
unless said driver or person is an authorized participant in the parade.
(c)   The Chief of Police shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary,
to prohibit or restrict the parking of vehicles along a highway or part thereof
constituting a part of the route of a parade. The Chief of Police shall post
signs to such effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-23. Revocation of permit.
The Chief of Police shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued
hereunder for the following:
(a)   upon violation of the standards for issuance as herein set forth; or
(b)   if the parade fails to begin within 30 minutes of the appointed time of
commencement; or
(c)   if the information contained in the application is found to be false in
any material detail.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-24. Indemnity and bond.
(a)   The applicant and any other persons, organizations, firms or corporations
on whose behalf the application is made, by filing such application, do
represent, stipulate, contract and agree that they will jointly and severely
indemnify and hold the city harmless against liability for any and all claims
for damage to property, or injury to, or death of persons arising out of or
resulting from the issuance of the permit or the conduct of the parade or its
participants.
(b)   In addition, no parade permit shall be issued unless the applicant shall
obtain a bond in the amount of $1,000.00, signed by the applicant as a
principal, and a corporate surety company authorized to do business in the
state as surety, conditioned upon compliance with the provisions of Articles I
and II.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-25.   Offenses.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stage, present or conduct or
attempt to stage, present or conduct a parade without first having obtained a
permit therefore, as herein provided, or who shall otherwise violate any of the
provisions of Articles I and II.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in a parade on the
city streets for which a permit has not been granted.
(c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with all directions
and conditions of the parade permit.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-26. Injunctive relief.
Nothing in Articles I and II providing for the regulation or license of
parades, or penalties set forth for violation of Articles I and II, shall waive
the right or otherwise preclude the city or any of its residents from seeking
or obtaining injunctive relief in a court of general jurisdiction for the
purpose of prohibiting or regulating any proposed or licensed parade.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02)
Sec. 79-27.   Penalty.
Any person, firm, corporation, agent or employee thereof who violates any of
the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be fined in accordance with Section 1-4 of the
Longview City Code for each offense. Each day that the violation occurs shall
constitute a separate case. The City Council hereby dispenses with the
requirement of establishing a culpable mental state in order to prove a
violation of this section.
(Ord. No. 3162, § 5, 10-10-02; Ord. No. 4036, §8, 2-11-16)
Sec. 79-28. Reserved.
Article III.
Reserved
Secs. 79-29 - 79-41. Reserved.
Article IV.
Reserved
Secs. 79-42 - 79-47. Reserved.
Chapters 80
Reserved
Chapter 81
Public Recreational Facilities
Article I. In General
Sec.
81-1 .   Fees and charges for use of certain public recreational facilities.
Sec.
81-2.   Definitions.
Sec.
81-3.   Director responsibilities.
Article II. Conduct in Public Recreational Facilities
Sec.
81-11.   Public recreational facility property.
Sec.
81-12.   Sanitation.
Sec.
81-13.   Traffic.
Sec.
81-14.   Recreational activities.
Sec.
81-15.   Additional rules, regulations, and policies.
Sec.
81-16.   Behavior.
Sec.
81-17.   Public recreational facility operating policy.
Sec.
81-18.   Enforcement.
Sec.
81-19.   Dog park rules.
Sec.
81-20.   Alcoholic beverages in public recreational facilities.
Sec.
81-21.   Permitted alcohol events.
Sec.
81-22.   Violations.
Article III. Public Recreational Facility Naming Policy
Sec.
81-41.   Purpose.
Sec.
81-42.   Role of the board.
Sec.
81-43.   Qualifying names for public recreational facilities.
Sec.
81-44.   Procedure for naming public recreational facilities.
Sec.
81-45.   Renaming public recreational facilities.
Sec.
81-46.   Alternatives for naming public recreational facilities.
Article IV. Vendor and Solicitor Permitting Procedure
Sec.
81-50.   Permit required.
Sec.
81-51.   Application for permit.
Sec.
81-52.   Issuance of permit.
Sec.
81-53.   Denial of permit, grounds.
Sec.
81-54.   Revocation of permit.
Sec.
81-55.   Permit denial or revocation hearing.
Sec.
81-56.   Display of permit.
Sec.
81-57.   Exceptions.
Sec.
81-58.   Mobile Food Units.
Sec.
81-59.   Violations.
Article V. Memorials, Plaques, and Tributes
Sec.
81-61.   Purpose
Sec.
81-62.   Authorization.
Sec.
81-63.   General use policy.
Sec.
81-64.   Heritage Plaza criteria.
Sec.
81-65.   Procedure.
Article I. In General
Sec. 81-1. Fees and charges for use of certain public recreational facilities.
The fees and charges for use of public recreational facilities shall be set by
resolution of the City Council.
Sec. 81-2. Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, each of the following terms, phrases, words
and its derivations shall have the meaning given in this section.
Board.  The term "board" shall mean the Parks and Recreation Board of the city.
Central Business District.  The term "central business district" shall mean the
area designated as the Central Business District (also abbreviated "CB" in the
city's Zoning Ordinance (Ordinance No. 96, as amended).
Director. The term "director" shall mean the Director of Parks and Recreation
of the city or said director's designee.
Dog.  The term "dog" shall mean any Canis familiaris, excluding wolf, jackal,
fox, or other dangerous wild animal of this family or any hybrids of a
dangerous wild animal.
Dog Owner.  The term "dog owner" shall mean any person owning a dog(s) or who
has possession or control or has the responsibility to control the dog(s).
Dog Park.  The term "dog park" shall mean any public property designated by the
city to allow dog owners to allow their dogs to run unrestrained.
Permit.  The term "permit" shall mean written permission from the appropriate
city officer or employee issued pursuant to the provisions of this Code and
authorizing a person or organization to carry out the activity specified in the
permit at the location (if any) specified in the permit.
Permitted Alcohol Event.  The term "permitted alcohol event" shall mean an
event for which written permission has been granted pursuant to Section 81-21
of this Code.
Public Recreational Facility.  The term "public recreational facility" shall
mean any area or structure owned or controlled by the city and used for public
recreational purposes, including but not limited to any park, reservation,
playground, recreational building, or other area used for active or passive
recreation. The term shall not include public streets and shall not include
city structures or building not used for recreational purposes. The term also
does not include the Longview Public Library or any branches of the library,
and the term does not include the Maude Cobb Convention and Activity Complex as
that term is defined in section 25-1 of this Code.
Sec. 81-3. Director responsibilities.
   All parks and recreation activities shall be administered under the
direction of the director. The director is responsible for carrying out
approved policies under the direction of the City Manager. The director shall
provide staff support to the board.
Article II. Conduct in Public Recreational Facilities
Sec. 81-11. Public recreational facility property.
No person in a public recreational facility shall:
(a)   willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure, tamper with or displace or
remove any building, bridge, table, bench, fireplace, railing or paving or
paving material, water line or other public utilities or parts or appurtenances
therof, signs, notices, or placards, whether temporary or permanent, monuments,
stakes, posts, or other boundary markers, or other structures, equipment,
facilities, property, or appurtenances, either real or personal.
(b)   erect any sign on or in any public recreational facility. Temporary signs
are permitted on reserved facilities and areas, at permitted events, and at
scheduled activities which uses have been previously approved by the director.
The director may limit the location, size and materials for any temporary sign
in order to prevent any damage to public recreational facilities or injury to
persons using the public recreational facilities.
(c)   fail to cooperate in maintaining restrooms and washrooms in a neat and
sanitary condition.
(d)   dig or remove any soil, rock, stones, trees, shrubs or plants or other
wood or materials, or make any excavations by tool, equipment, blasting or
other means or agency.
(e)   damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or plant or injure the
bark or pick the flowers or seeds of any tree or plant.
(f)   dig in or otherwise disturb grass areas or in any other way injure or
impair the natural beauty or usefulness of the area.
(g)   enter onto a reserved facility or area, or a location where scheduled
activities are occurring, during the period that the area or facility is
reserved or during the scheduled activity and remain or return there after the
person has been given notice to leave. Reserved facilities and areas, and
scheduled activities, include but are not limited to: indoor and outdoor
facilities, meeting rooms, gathering areas, camps, and classes, athletic fields
and their support/adjacent areas and facilities.
(h)   possess, use, or discard any glass containers or related trash upon or
within any public recreational facility or any other property owned or
controlled by the city, including, but not limited to any public parks, lakes,
streams, sports facilities, including athletic fields and bleachers, or trails.
(i)   make improvements on, in, or to any public recreational facility and/or
install any plant material without the approval of the director.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted, allegation and
evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof of an offense
defined by this section.
It is an affirmative defense to prosecution for an offense defined by this
section that the alleged offense was both (1) committed by a city employee,
city agent, or city contractor and (2) reasonably necessary for the performance
of maintenance, construction, or repair duties that the city had authorized the
employee, agent, or contractor to perform.
Sec. 81-12. Sanitation.
No person in a public recreational facility shall throw, discharge or otherwise
place or cause to be placed in the waters of any fountain, pond, lake, stream
or other body of water in or adjacent to any public recreational facility or
any tributary, stream, storm sewer or drain flowing into such waters, any
substance, matter or thing, liquid or solid which will or may result in the
pollution of said water, or dump, deposit, or leave any bottles, broken glass,
ashes, paper boxes, cans, dirt, rubbish, waste, garbage or refuse or any other
trash in any waters or on the grounds of any public recreational facility.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted, allegation and
evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof of an offense
defined by this section.
Sec. 81-13. Traffic.
No person in a public recreational facility shall:
(a)   fail to comply with all applicable provisions of the state motor vehicle
traffic laws in regard to the equipment and operation of vehicles together with
such regulations as are in this and other ordinances.
(b)   fail to obey all traffic officers and public recreational facility
employees, such persons hereby authorized and instructed to direct traffic
whenever and wherever needed in the public recreational facilities and on the
highways, streets or roads immediately adjacent thereto.
(c)   fail to ovserve carefully all traffic signs indicating speed, direction,
caution, stopping or parking and all others posted for proper control and to
safeguard life and property.
(d)   operate or drive any vehicle at a speed in excess of 15 miles per hour,
except upon such roads as the director may designate, by posted signs, for
speedier travel.
(e)   park a vehicle in other then an established or designated parking area
and such use shall be in accordance with the posted directions thereon and with
the instructions of any attendant who may be present.
(f)   park a vehicle within a public recreational facility overnight.
(g)   double park any vehicle on any road or parkway unless directed by a
public recreational facility official or in any manner block any roadway within
a public recreational facility.
(h)   drive any motor vehicle on any area except the paved roads or parking
areas.
(i)   ride a bicycle on other than a paved vehicular road or path designated
for that purpose and ride a bicycle other than on the right hand side of the
road paving as close as conditions allow. A bicyclist shall at all times
operate his mcahine with reasonable regard to the safety of others, signal all
turns, pass to the right of any of any vehicle he is overtaking and pass to the
right of any vehicle he may be meeting.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted, allegation and
evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof of an offense
defined by this section.
Sec. 81-14. Recreational activities.
No person in a public recreational facility shall:
(a)   swim, bathe, or wade in any waters or waterways in or adjacent to any
public recreational facility, except in such waters and at such places as are
provided therefor, and in compliance with such regulations as are herein set
forth or may be hereafter adopted.
(b)   Frequent any waters or places designated for the purpose of swimming or
bathing, or congregate thereon, except between such hours of the day as shall
be designated by the director for such purposes for each individual area.
(c)   allow himself to be covered with a bathing suit as to indecently expose
his person.
(d)   dress or undress in any vehicle, toilet or other place, except in such
bathing houses or structures as may be provided for the purpose.
(e)   bring into or operate any boat or other water craft, whether motor
powered or not, upon any waters.
(f)   ascend, descend, operate, or launch any aircraft, including but not
limited to airplanes, unmannned aircraft system (drone), paraplanes,
ultralights, helicopters, and gliders.
(g)   fish in any waters, except in waters designated by the director for that
use and under such regulations and restrictions as have been or may be
proscribed by the director.
(h)   hunt, trap or pursue wildlife at any time. No person shall use, carry or
possess firearms of any description (save and except a handgun carried by a
person licensed to carry a handgun), or any air rifles, spring guns, bows and
arrows, slings or any other form of weapons potentially harmful to wildlife and
dangerous to human safety.
(i)   camp overnight in or upon any public recreational facility.
(j)   ride, lead or drive a horse except on designated driveways, parking lots
or bridle paths.
(k)   use any type of sound amplification devices which include but are not
limited to loudspeakers, amplifiers or microphones. A permit granted under this
section must be consistent with the provisions of subsection 58-21(c) of this
Code.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted, allegation and
evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof of an offense
defined by this section.
It is an affirmative defense to prosecution for an offense defined by this
section that the alleged offense was both (1) authorized by a permit issued by
the director and (2) conducted in full compliance with all the conditions
imposed on said permit by the director.
(Ord. No. 4108, § 2, 6-22-17)
Sec. 81-15. Additional rules, regulations, and policies.
The director may adopt additional rules, regulations, and policies governing
the management and operation of public recreational facilities. A current copy
of those rules and regulations shall be maintained on file in the
administrative offices of the parks and recreation department. A violation of
those rules is not a criminal offense and is not subject to section 81-22 of
this article.
Sec. 81-16. Behavior.
No person in a public recreational facility shall:
(a)   discharge, set off or otherwise cause to explode or discharge or burn any
firecreacker, torpedo, rocket or other fireworks or explosives of inflammable
material.
(b)   build or attempt to build a fire except in such areas and under such
regulations as may be designated by the director.
(c)   gamble or participate in or abet any game of chance.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted, allegation and
evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof of an offense
defined by this section.
Sec. 81-17. Public recreational facility operating policy.
(a)   Hours. Except for unusual and unforeseen emergencies, public recreational
facilities shall be open to the public every day of the year during the hours
of 6:00 am until 11:00 pm, unless different operating opening and closing hours
for the individual public recreational facility shall be posted therein.
(b)   Closed areas. Any section or part of any public recrational facility may
be declared closed to the public by the director at any time for any interval
of time, either temporarily or at regular and stated intervals.
Sec. 81-18. Enforcement.
(a)   Officials. The director shall, in connection with the duties imposed on
the director by law, diligently enforce the provisions of this article.
(b)   Ejectment. The director shall have the authority to eject from the public
recreational facility any person acting in violation of this article or in
violation of any rules and regulations promulgated by the board. The board is
also hereby authorized to exclude any person from a public recreational
facility for violation of this article or of any of the rules and regulations
promulgated by the board and to determine the length of time during which such
person shall be excluded from such public recreational facility. No person
shall come in or upon any public recreational facility from which the person
has been excluded by the board in accordance with provisions of this section.
Sec. 81-19. Dog park rules.
These rules shall apply to all users of the dog park:
(a)   Dogs are the only animals allowed or permitted.
(b)   Dogs must wear a tag evidencing current rabies vaccination.
(c)   Dogs must remain on leash while entering and exiting.
(d)   Dog owners must stay within the dog park and within view of their dogs.
(e)   Dog owners are limited to two (2) dogs per person per visit.
(f)   Dogs shall be under the voice control of the dog owner at all times.
(g)   Choke, prong, pinch and spike collars are prohibited and must be removed
before entering.
(h)   Any dog exhibiting aggressive behavior as determined by a responding city
official must be removed immediately. Any dog designated under the Health &
Safety Code as a dangerous dog is prohibited from entering.
(i)   Dog owners are liable for damage or injuries inflicted by their dogs and
assume all risk related to dog park use.
(j)   Dog owners must have a visible leash at all times.
(k)   Dog owners are responsible for removal and disposal of feces of their
dog.
(l)   Any person under the age of 16 must be accompanied by an adult.
(m)   Persons running, shouting, or chasing dogs is prohibited.
(n)   Petting another person's dog is prohibited without the dog owner's
permission.
(o)   No puppies under the age of four (4) months are permitted.
(p)   Dogs in heat are not permitted.
(q)   Dogs are permitted in designated areas of the dog park based on weight.
Dog owners are responsible for determining the appropriate designated area for
their dog(s) based on posted weight criteria.
(r)   No food to be consumed by humans is allowed.
(s)   Any dog bite or scratch should be immediately reported to the city
division responsible for animal control.
Sec. 81-20. Alcoholic beverages in public recreational facilities.
(a)   A person commits an offense if the person possesses or consumes an
alcoholic beverage in a public recreational facility.
(b)   A person commits an offense if the person enters or remains in a public
recreational facility while having any detectable amount of alcohol in the
person's system.
(c)   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted,
allegation and evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof
of an offense defined by this section.
(d)   It is an affirmative defense to prosecution for an offense defined by
this section that the alleged offense occurred as part of the alleged
violator's participation in a permitted alcohol event.
Sec. 81-21. Permitted alcohol events.
(a)   Written Permission. In addition to any other applicable requirements, any
person holding an event at which any alcoholic beverage will be possessed or
consumed in a public recreational facility must obtain written permission from
the City Manager or the City Manager's designee to hold said event in the
public recreational facility. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee
may grant such permission only as provided by this section and shall grant such
permission to any person who complies with the requirements of this section. A
person commits an offense if the person conducts an event at which any
alcoholic beverage is possessed or consumed in a public recreational facility
without first obtaining written permission pursuant to this section.
(b)   Permitted Alvohol Events Limited to Certain Public Recreational
Facilities. An event at which any alcoholic beverage will be possessed or
consumed in a public recreational facility may be held only at The Green, the
Longview Arboretum and Nature Center, or a public recreational facility located
in the central business district. A person commits an offense if the person
conducts an event at which any alcoholic beverage is possessed or consumed in a
public recreational facility and fails to comply with this subsection.
(c)   Permitted Alcohol Events Limited to Certain Times. On Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, or Friday an event at which any alcoholic beverage will be
possessed or consumed in public recreational facility may be held only between
the hours of 5:00 PM and 11:00 PM. On Saturday and Sunday an event at which
alcoholic beverage will be possessed or consumed in a public recreational
facility may be held only between the hours of 6:00 AM and 11:00 PM. A person
commits an offense if the person conducts an event at which any alcoholic
beverage is possessed or consumed in a public recreational facility and fails
to comply with this subsection. A person commits an offense if the person
possesses or consumes an alcoholic beverage in a public recreational facility
during any time other than the times allowed by this subsection.
(d)   Procedures. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall
establish such procedures as shall be reasonably necessary in order to carry
out the provisions of this section, including without limitations procedures
governing the application for written permission pursuant to this section.
(e)   Security. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall establish
written specifications for the types and amounts of security personnel and
procedures to be required of persons applying for permission under this
section, and these specifications shall be made available to the public upon
request. Persons applying for such permission shall reimburse the city for the
cost incurred by the city in providing the required security. The City Manager
or the City Manager's designee shall determine said costs and these costs shall
be made available to the public in writing upon request. A person commits an
offense if the person conducts an event at which any alcoholic beverage is
possessed or consumed in a public recreational facility and fails to comply
with the specifications issued pursuant to this subsection.
(f)   Insurance. The City Manager or the City Manager's designee shall
establish written specifications for the types and amounts of general liability
insurance to be required of persons applying for permission under this section,
and these specifications shall be made available to the public upon request.
Persons applying for such permission shall provide proof of general liability
insurance in accordance with the specifications and procedures established by
the City Manager and/or the City Manager's designee and shall maintain the
required types and amounts of insurance throughout the duration of the entire
permitted alcohol event. A person commits an offense if the person conducts an
event at which any alcoholic beverage is possessed or consumed in a public
recreational facility and fails to comply with the specifications issued
pursuant to this subsection or fails to maintain insurance as required by this
subsection.
(g)   No Culpable Mental State Required. Unless otherwise specifically set
forth in state law as adopted, allegation and evidence of culpable mental state
are not required for the proof of an offense defined by this section.
Sec. 81-22. Violations.
A person commits an offense if the person violates any provision of this
article. Any person violating any provision of this article shall be punished
in accordance with the terms of section 1-4 of this Code.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted, allegation and
evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof of an offense
defined by this section.
Article III.
Public Recreational Facility Naming Policy
Sec. 81-41. Purpose.
The purpose of this article is to establish a formal policy and process for
naming public recreational facilities. A sound policy can add meaning and
significance that embody the value and heritage of this community.
Sec. 81-42. Role of the board.
The board shall be responsible for recommending to the Council the naming or
renaming of all public recreational facilities, subject to the approval of the
Council.
Sec. 81-43. Qualifying names for public recreational facilities.
The following types of names shall be suitable for naming public recreational
facilities:
(a)   the geographic location of the public recreational facility;
(b)   outstanding and/or prdominant physical features of the public
recreational facility;
(c)   predominant plant materials;
(d)   streams, rivers, lakes and creeks;
(e)   adjoining subdivision to which the public recreational facility is
adjacent or in which the public recreational facility lies;
(f)   an individual or group who contributed a minimum of 50% of land or
monetary funding toward the acquisition and/or development of the individual
public recreational facility;
(g)   a commonly recognized historical event, group or individual;
(h)   an individual who provided exceptional service in the interest of parks
and recreation as a whole;
(i)   outstanding community leaders, living or deceased;
(j)   national and state historical leaders or heroes, both past and present;
or
(k)   outstanding environmentalists and parks and recreation notables.
For an individual (excluding historically significant individuals that fall
into the categories outlined in subsections (g), (h), (j) or (k) of this
section) to be considered, that person must have contributed significantly to
the acquisition or development of the public recreational facility being named
after that individual. The recommended name must be accompanied by a
biographical sketch which shall provide evidence of contributions to the publc
recreational facility.
No public recreational facility shall be given the same name as an existing
school site or public recreational facility except where sites about one
another.
Sec. 81-44. Procedure for naming public recreational facilities.
The following procedure shall be followed when naming public recreational
facilities:
(a)   At the time the public recreational facility is acquired, but before
development occurs, the director will assign a nondescript temporary name for
the public recreational facility.
(b)   Once the development is initiated, the director will receive naming
applications for review by the board.
(c)   The board shall choose a name in accordance with the requirements of
section 81-43 of this article.
(d)   After a name is decided upon by the board, public notice of the
recommended name will occur twice during a 30- day period in the city's
newspaper of record. Citizen comments and recommendations must be submitted in
writing to the director and be postmarked within the 30-day public notice
period.
After the 30-day publice notice period, the director, with the approval of the
board, will submit the recommended name to the Council for final approval.
Sec. 81-45. Renaming public recreational facilities.
The following provisions shall apply to any request to rename a public
recreational facility:
(a)   The renaming of public recreational facilities is strongly discouraged.
It is recommended that efforts to change a name be subject to the most critical
examination so as not to diminish the original justification for the name or
discount the value of the prior contributors.
(b)   Only those public recreational facilities named for geographic location,
outstanding feature, predominant plant materials, subdivision or streams,
rivers, lakes and creeks should be considered for renaming. Public recreational
facilities named by deed restriction cannot be considered for renaming.
(c)   The names of public recreational facilities named after individuals
should never be changed unless it is found that the individual's personal
character is or was such that the continued use of the individual's name for a
public recreational facility would not be in the best interest of the
community.
(d)   The recommended name must be chosen in accordance with the requirements
of section 81-44 of this article.
(e)   The recommended name must be accompanied by a petition signed by a
minimum of 50 citizens who legally reside within the city limits.
Sec. 81-46. Alternatives for naming public recreational facilities.
The following exceptions shall apply to the requirements of this article:
(a)   Public recreational facilities that are donated to the city can be named
by deed restriction by the donor. The naming and acceptance of land is subject
to approval by the board and the Council.
(b)   Individual facilities within a public recreational facility (for example,
playgrounds, picnic shelters, ball fields, etc.) can be named separately from
the public recreational facility in which they are located, subject to the
requirements of Section 81-44 of this article.
Article IV.
Vendor and Solicitor Permitting Procedure
Sec. 81-50. Permit required.
No person, personally, by agent, or as the agent of another, may engage in,
transact, or conduct the business or occupation of soliciting or vending, as
defined in Chapter 46 and Chapter 67 of this Code, either as principal or as
agent or employee of any other person, in any public recreational facility, or
upon any property controlled by the parks and recreation department of the
city, unless a valid permit has been issued as provided in this article.
No person may engage in, transact, conduct the business or occupation of a
vendor or solicitor, or allow soliciting or vending, in any public recreational
facility, or upon any property controlled by the parks and recreation
department of the city, in violation of the terms and conditions of a valid
permit issued in aacordance with this article.
No person may, in any public recreational facility, conduct any commercial or
business activities of any kind for which any participation fee or admission
fee is charged.
Sec. 81-51. Application for permit.
(a)   Any person desiring to engage in, transact or conduct the business or
occupation of soliciting or vending within any public recreational facility, or
upon any property controlled by the parks and recreational department of the
city, shall file a written application for a permit with the director.
(b)   The applicant must provide the following:
   (1)   the name, address, telephone number and date of birth of the
applicant;
   (2)   if the applicant is the agent or employee of another, and if so, the
name, address and telephone number of applicant's principal or employer;
   (3)   the period of time the applicant is to vend or solicity in the city;
   (4)   if the applicant is vending food, applicant must attach a copy of any
current permit required and issued by the city's environmental health division;
   (5)   a valid form of identity such as a Texas driver's license or Texas
identification card issued by the Texas Department of Public Safety; and
   (6)   a recent photographic likeness of the applicant for attachment to the
permit;
   (7)   a complete listing of the type of products that will be vended;
   (8)   a state sales tax number if the vendor is a business.
(c)   The required permit fee, as established by separate resolution, must be
submitted with the application.
(d)   In addition to above, a Mobile Food Unit operator must provide the
following:
   (1)   a General Liability insurance policy; and
   (2)   a valid Certificate of Occupancy permit issued by the city's
Development Services Department.
Sec. 81-52. Issuance of permit.
(a)   Permits issued under the provisions of this article shall be valid for
the type, location, and dates stated on the permit application.
(b)   Permits issued under the provisions of this article are not transferable
nor shall the permit give authority to anyone other than the person or
organization named on the permit to engage in the vending activity authorized
on the permit.
Sec. 81-53. Denial of permit, grounds.
(a)   Within three business days after the filing of an application under this
article, the director shall grant a permit to the applicant if the applicant
meets all requirements of this article. The following are considered grounds
for denial of permit:
   (1)   an applicant is prohibited from working by federal or state law
because of applicant's age;
   (2)   false or misleading information is contained in the application or
required information is omitted;
   (3)   the permit fee has not been paid;
   (4)   the location indicated on the application does not have an improved
off-street parking surface of adequate size to accommodate the proposed vending
activity. For the purpose of this ordinance, the minimum parking standards are
established by the "zoning" ordinance of the city as it currently exists and as
it may hereafter be amended.
   (5)   the applicant has failed to comply with any applicable requirements of
state or federal laws or regulations, or has failed to comply with any
applicable requirements of this Code, including but not limited to the
provisions of the ordinances regulating zoning, food and food establishments,
and public recreational facilities, as said ordinances, laws or rules currently
exist and as they may hereafter be amended;
   (6)   the applicant fails to obtain any necessary permit including a food
vending permit;
   (7)   the activity would violate an applicable federal, state or municipal
law, or violates community standards of decency;
   (8)   the location of the soliciting or vending activity does not comply
with applicable zoning ordinances and/or restrictions of the city; or
   (9)   the vending or soliciting would conflict with scheduled activities or
the established policy of the city's parks and recreation department.
(b)   Any application denied under subsection (a) above may be amended and
resubmitted within five business days of the denial.
Sec. 81-54. Revocation of permit.
At any time the City Manager, or the City Manager's designee, or the director,
after written notice to the solicitor or vendor may revoke the permit on a
finding that the information as stated in the application is false or
incorrect, or the conditions imposed by the permit will not be met.
Sec. 81-55. Permit denial or revocation hearing.
(a)   Every denial or revocation of a permit under this article shall be in
writing, dated and shall state the reason for such action. Said notice shall
immediately be sent to the applicant by certified mail, or shall be personally
delivered to such person.
(b)   Any applicant may, within ten business days after the date of the notice
provided for in subsection (a) above, submit to the City Manager a written
request for a hearing to show cause as to why the permit should be granted or
should not be revoked. Such request shall not stay the denial or revocation. A
hearing shall be scheduled within ten business days of such request and notice
shall be immediately given to all affected parties.
(c)   Following the hearing, the City Manager or the City Manager's designee
shall render a written decision granting or denying the application, or
reinstating or revoking the permit, as the case may be. The decision shall be
immediately provided to the permit applicant.
(d)   The applicant may appeal the decision of the City Manager to the district
court.
Sec. 81-56. Display of permit.
When engaged in vending or soliciting the permit required by this article shall
be carried by each individual solicitor or vendor, whether conducting business
as an individual or an employee, representative, or agent of another, and
shall, upon request, be displayed to any police officer or any employee of the
city's parks and recreation department for examination. Otherwise, such permit
shall be prominently displayed upon the premises or place where the business is
authorized and conducted.
Sec. 81-57. Exceptions
The provisions requiring applicants to pay a permit fee shall not apply to the
followin: Any verified religious, political, or charitable solicitation, as
defined in Chapter 67 of this Code, where all of the proceeds are used for
religious, political, or charitable purposes, or board-approved recognized user
groups.
Sec. 81-58. Mobile Food Units.
The term "Mobile Food Unit" (MFU) shall mean a unit as defined in Chapter 46 of
this Code that is designed to be readily movable and from which food and/or
beverages are prepared or sold.
(a)   Approved public recreational facilities include:
   (1)   Broughton
   (2)   The Green
   (3)   Green Street Recreation Center
   (4)   Teague
   (5)   Ingram
   (6)   Hinsley
   (7)   Lear
   (8)   Spring Hill Park
   (9)   Stamper Park, and
   (10)   Timpson
(b)   All mobile food units shall provide refuse containers suitable for
placement of litter generated by customers or other persons.
(c)   All mobile good units shall be responsible for cleanup of all public
recreational facility areas within 100 feet from the unit.
(d)   All mobile food units shall be confined to the assigned spot as approved
by the director.
(e)   All mobile food units shall be removed from public recreational facility
property daily.
(f)   All utilities used for the benefit of the MFU shall be paid for at the
current rate.
(g)   Improvements to the public recreational facility shall not be made
without written approval.
(h)   Prices of items sold or offered shall be visibly posted.
(i)   All mobile food units shall be responsible for the cost of repair or
replacement for any damage to the public recreational facility.
(j)   Any mobile food unit may be excluded from the permitted location for up
to five (5) days per month for any reason.
Sec. 81-59. Violations.
A person commits an offense if the person violates any provision of this
article. Any person violating any provision of this article shall be punished
in accordance with the terms of section 1-4 of this Code.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted, allegation and
evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof of an offense
defined by this section.
Article V.
Memorials, Plaques, and Tributes
Sec. 81-61. Purpose.
(a)   To provide an effective policy for determining the acceptance,
appropriateness, and placement of memorials, plaques, and tributes in public
recreational facilities.
(b)   To establish a specific policy for placement of memorials, plaques, and
tributes in Heritage Plaza as well as a "general use" policy for the placement
of memorials, plaques, and tributes in any other public recreational facility.
(c)   To prevent a proliferation of memorials, plaques, and tributes that could
negatively impact the safety, appearance, or usefulness of any public
recreational facility.
(d)   To enhance the public good through improvements to public recreational
facilities, with a secondary purpose to pay tribute to the organization or
individual making a donation.
(e)   To be keeping with the Public Recreational Facility Naming Policy.
Sec. 81-62. Authorization.
The board, subject to the authority of the City Council over all city property,
is the approving authority for placement of memorials, plaques, and tributes in
any public recreational facility. The board may delegate to the director
authority to determine appropriateness of memorials, plaques, and tributes that
clearly fall within the guidelines of this policy.
Sec. 81-63. General use policy.
(a)   In keeping with the Public Recreational Facility Naming Policy:
   (1)   the placement of all memorials, plaques, and tributes on or in any
public recreational facility is subject to the same criteria as are applied to
the naming of public recreational facilities.
   (2)   because of their proneness to vandalism and maintenance requirements,
memorials, plaques, and tributes should be used sparingly.
   (3)   the board subject to approval by the City Council, establishes the
style, size and placement of all memorials, plaques, and tributes.
(b)   It shall be board policy not to approve the placement of memorials,
plaques, and tributes in any area of a public recreational facility that the
board determines may negatively impact the visitor experience or the enjoyment
of the public recreational facility.
(c)   The director shall use the following criteria to determine what
memorials, plaques, or tributes are to recommended for board approval.
   (1)   Applicable procedures have been appropriately followed.
   (2)   The memorial, plaque, or tribute does not negatively impact visitor
experience in or the visual appearance of any public recreational facility.
   (3)   The memorial, plaque or tribute is beneficial to the general public as
first priority.
   (4)   The memorial, plaque, or tribute is beneficial to the current usage
and future development of the public recreational facility.
   (5)   The costs, including maintenance and replacement, are borne by the
requesting party unless otherwise directed by the board.
   (6)   The memorial, plaque, or tribute meets all existing restrictions and
standards, including safety.
   (7)   The memorial, plaque, or tribute is in clear compliance with all
applicable federal, state and local laws.
(d)   The parks and recreation department will not bear responsibility for
repair or replacement of vandalized, lost, stolen, or worn memorials, plaques,
or tributes.
(e)   The board has the authority to remove or augment any memorial, plaque, or
tribute. This shall be done with the intent of improving or enhancing the
public recreational facility (example: removing broken memorial). In case of
removal or aumentation, the board or a representative thereof will attempt to
contact donor at last known address to advise the donor of the board's action.
The city's parks and recreation department may immediately remove any memorial,
plaque, or tribute that, due to its physical condition, has become a danger to
the public.
(f)   The following rules shall apply to plaques and inscriptions:
   (1)   Placement of plaques in conjunction with memorials shall be done on a
limited basis. Plaques should cause no negative impact on safety, use, or
visual appearance.
   (2)   Inscriptions shall be limited to the name of the donor or honoree and
a phrase such as "in memory of"; "on honor of"; "donated by"; "in loving memory
of"; and "made possible by".
   (3)   Recognition of memorials, plaques, and tributes shall be made through
the city's website as well as a memorial book or plaque to be kept in city
hall.
(g)   Public recreational facility needs and plans are specific to location.
Not all items are appropriate at all locations. Items suitable for memorials,
plaques, and tributes include but are not limited to:
   (1)   Flagpole
   (2)   park bench
   (3)   tree
   (4)   kiosk
   (5)   pavilion
   (6)   playground equipment
Sec. 81-64. Heritage Plaza criteria.
(a)   Heritage Plaza is reserved as a location to pay tribute to the history
and heritage of the Longview community. Memorials, plaques, and tributes place
within Heritage Plaza will be limited.
(b)   In addition to complying with all regulations listed within the "General
Use" memorial policy, memorials, plaques, and tributes place at Heritage Plaza
should:
   (1)   honor an organization that has been in existence in the city for 25
years or more; and
   (2)   honor an organization that has made significant contributions to the
Longview community.
(c)   In addition to memorials, plaques, and tributes made within the Heritage
Plaza, the parks and recreation department may create other ways to honor
donors that fit the above criteria.
Sec. 81-65. Procedure.
(a)   Individuals or organizations desiring approval for memorials, plaques, or
tributes shall submit requests in writing to the director.
(b)   The director will review written requests and decide if the request
complies with this policy.
(c)   If approved, the director will sumit the proposal to the board for the
board's consideration in accordance with stated policy.
(d)   If approved by the board, the memorial, plaque, or tribute may be placed
within the designated public recreational facility, pursuant to the guidance of
the director.
(Ord. No. 4102, § 3, 5-25-17)
Chapter 82
Railroads
Sec.
82-1.   Operation of cars without engine attached.
Sec.
82-2.   Sounding of warning devices.
Sec.
82-3.   Jumping on or off or clinging to cars.
Sec.
82-4.   Speed limit of trains.
Sec.
82-5.   Crossings not to be blocked for more than five minutes.
Sec.
82-6.   Duty of railroad companies to maintain crossings.
Sec.
82-7.   Duty of railroad agents to see that requirements of this chapter are
complied with.
Sec.
82-8.   Liability of certain person for violation of chapter.
Sec. 82-1. Operation of cars without engine attached.
Any person who shall, in the city, run any railroad car without an engine
attached a greater distance than 200 yards from any depot, or for any distance
across any street intersection, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1943, Art. 49-1)
Sec. 82-2. Sounding of warning devices.
It shall be unlawful to conduct, run or cause to be run, any railroad engine,
approaching any street intersection within the limits of the city, without
sounding some audible warning device before starting, and all the time such
engine or locomotive may be in motion.
(Code 1943, Art. 49-2)
Sec. 82-3. Jumping on or off or clinging to cars.
It shall be unlawful for any person, not being a regular passenger, employee or
official of the railroad company, to jump on or off, to cling to or hang or to
any railroad engine or car while the same is in motion.
(Code 1943, Art. 49-4)
Sec. 82-4. Speed limit of trains.
(a)   Except as otherwise stated in subsection (b) herein, it shall be unlawful
for any person to operate or run or cause to be operated or run, within the
corporate limits of the city, any railroad engine, car, or train of cars at a
greater rate of speed than 40 miles per hour.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or run or cause to be
operated or run, within the corporate limits of the city, any railroad engine,
car or train of cars at a greater rate of speed than 55 miles per hour on the
following segments of railroad track:
   (1)   the Texas and Pacific Railroad track from its intersection with the
east city corporate limits to the juncture of said railroad track with the
Missouri Pacific Railroad yard; and
   (2)   the Texas and Pacific Railroad track from its intersection with the
west city corporate limits to the intersection of said railroad track with
Fisher Road.
(Ord. No. 1800, 10-24-85)
Sec. 82-5. Crossings not to be blocked for more than five minutes.
It shall be unlawful to obstruct the crossing, or any portion of the width
thereof, of any street in the city by any railroad engine, car or cars of any
description for a longer time than five consecutive minutes, and whenever
either of such crossings shall have been obstructed, or any portion of its
width, by any such engine, car or cars for more than five consecutive minutes
at any one time, it shall be left entirely free and unobstructed for at least
five consecutive minutes, except that this section shall not apply to any
through train passing over such crossings and kept in constant forward motion
while passing the crossings.
(Code 1943, Art. 49-7)
Sec. 82-6. Duty of railroad companies to maintain crossings.
It shall be the duty of each and every railroad company, at the crossing of its
track with any avenue, street or highway of the city, to put and maintain the
crossing in a proper condition of repair for the entire width of the street at
a place where it is crossed by the railroad track, in accord with grades and by
methods approved by the City Engineer, and at its own cost and expense maintain
the same in a proper condition over the entire width designated for passage,
travel and general use by the public.
(Code 1943, Art. 49-8)
Sec. 82-7. Duty of railroad agents to see that requirements of this chapter are
complied with.
It shall be the special duty of the station agent, local or ticket agent, or
other representatives of a railroad having a track in this city, to see that
the requirements of this chapter are complied with, and in case of a failure to
comply with, or any violation of this chapter, any of such agents shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Code 1943, Art. 49-10)
Sec. 82-8. Liability of certain person for violation of chapter.
The penalty prescribed in Section 1-4 of this Code shall extend to any and all
persons in actual control of such engine, car or cars, to any and all persons
having direction over the movement of such engine, car or cars, and to any and
all general or division officers of any corporation owning or controlling such
engines or cars, who shall have the authority to give orders in relation to the
disposition of such engines or cars at and about said crossings who shall fail
to give the necessary orders, or fail to enforce such orders when given.
(Code 1943, Art. 49-9)
Chapters 83 - 84
Reserved 
Chapter 85
Reserved
Chapters 86 - 87
Reserved
Chapter 88
Smoking
Article I. In General.
Sec.
88-1.   Definitions.
Sec.
88-2.   Smoking prohibited in public places; designated smoking area;
prohibitions applicable to minors; rebuttable presumption.
Sec.
88-3.   Signs.
Sec.
88-4.   Reporting violations.
Sec.
88-5.   Penalties for violations.
Sec.
88-6.   Effective date.
Sec.
88-7.   Voluntary prohibition of smoking in areas that are not public places;
violations; signs.
Article II. Illegal Smoking Products.
Sec.
88-10   Purpose.
Sec.
88-11   Definitions.
Sec.
88-12   Sell, offer, gift, display or possession.
Sec.
88-13   Use or possession of ingestion devices.
Sec.
88-14   Defense.
Article I. In General.
Sec. 88-1.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Bar. Any commercial establishment that derives more than fifty percent (50%)
of its annual gross sales receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages as
defined by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Code and has a valid on-premises
consumption license issued by the Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission.
   Bingo establishment. An establishment regulated under Chapter 2001 of the
Texas Occupations Code – “Bingo Enabling Act.”
   Bowling establishment. A commercial establishment that offers the game of
bowling for a fee.
   Designated smoking area. A portion of a tobacco shop, bar, food
establishment, bowling establishment or bingo establishment that meets all of
the following requirements: (1) the area is physically separated from any other
public place by impermeable ceilings and impermeable walls, exclusive of
appropriate openings for ingress and egress; (2) the area is independently
ventilated; (3) any opening that allows ingress or egress between said area and
any public place has impermeable doors that automatically close and remain
closed unless a person is using the opening for ingress or egress; and (4) the
square footage of the area does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the total
square footage of said tobacco shop, bar, food establishment, bowling
establishment or bingo establishment.
   Director. The director of the department designated by the City Manager to
enforce and administer this chapter or the director's designated
representative.
   Employee. Any person who is employed by any employer for direct or indirect
monetary wages or profit, or is in a position that would lead one to believe
that such person is so employed.
   Employer. Any person, partnership, corporation, association or other entity
that employs one or more persons.
   Enclosed. Closed in by a roof and walls with appropriate openings for
ingress and egress.
   Establishment that excludes minors. A tobacco shop, a bar, a food
establishment, a bowling establishment or a bingo establishment that meets all
of the following requirements: (1) the establishment does not allow the
entrance of minors into the establishment, including without limitation any
guests, patrons or employees that are minors; and (2) the establishment is
located in a separate building from any other public place or is independently
ventilated and completely separated from any other public place by impermeable
ceilings and impermeable walls.
   Food establishment. Any commercial establishment that derives more than
fifty percent (50%) of its annual gross sales receipts from the sale of
prepared ready-to-eat food. For the purpose of this chapter a food
establishment does not include an outdoor patio.
   Health care facility. Any hospital or institution that provides medical or
surgical services for patients.
   Independently ventilated. Indicates the area meets all of the following
requirements: (1) the area’s heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC)
system serves only an area where smoking is allowed under this chapter; (2) the
area does not allow any smoke or secondhand smoke from smoking to enter any
public place; and (3) the area is designed by a licensed professional engineer
to have a negative pressure in said area that prevents the air from said area
from being drawn across or into any public place, to provide a total air
exchange every 15 minutes, and to exhaust that air to the exterior of the
building.
   Minor. Any human being under the age of 18.
   Movie theater. Any establishment engaged in the business of exhibiting
motion pictures to the public.
   Outdoors. Any area that is not enclosed.
   Private club. Any building, premises or portion thereof that meets all of
the following requirements: (1) it is wholly owned or leased by a non-profit
corporation that has members and that is organized under Chapter 501(c)(3) of
the United States Internal Revenue Code, as amended; (2) it is used by said
non-profit corporation for the purposes for which said corporation was
organized; and (3) it is located in a separate building from any other public
place or is independently ventilated and completely separated from any other
public place by impermeable ceilings and impermeable walls. The term “private
club” shall not include any portion of a building or premises, whether or not
said portion is owned or leased by a non-profit corporation, when said portion
is in use by an entity that is not a non-profit corporation organized under
Chapter 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, as amended. The
term “private club” shall not include any portion of a building or premises,
whether or not said portion is owned or leased by a non-profit corporation,
that is used for a health care facility.
   Public place. Any enclosed area that is open to or is used by the general
public and includes, but is not limited to retail stores, grocery stores,
offices, professional, commercial or financial establishments, food
establishments, movie theaters, public and private institutions of education,
health care facilities, nursing and convalescent homes, residential treatment
facilities, buildings owned or occupied by political subdivisions other than a
county, public vehicles and public restrooms. For the purpose of this chapter,
a public place does not include hotel and motel rooms that are rented to
guests, hotel and motel meeting facilities that are rented to guests, a private
residence, a place of employment that is accessed only by employees, an
establishment that excludes minors, a designated smoking area, a private club,
property owned or occupied by a county, taxis, limousines or outdoors.
   Public vehicle. Any motor vehicle owned or operated by the City of Longview.
   Smoke  or  smoking. Means and includes the carrying or holding of a lighted
pipe, cigar or cigarette of any kind, or any other lighted smoking equipment or
device, and the lighting, emitting or exhaling the smoke of a pipe, cigar or
cigarette of any kind.
   Tobacco. Any tobacco, cigarette, cigar, pipe tobacco, smokeless tobacco,
snuff or any other form of tobacco, which may be utilized for smoking, chewing,
inhalation or other means of ingestion or absorption.
   Tobacco shop. Any commercial establishment that derives more than fifty
percent (50%) of its annual gross sales receipts from the sale of tobacco and
tobacco accessories.
(Ord. No. 3179, § 3, 1-9-03)
Sec. 88-2.   Smoking prohibited in public places; designated smoking area;
prohibitions applicable to minors; rebuttable presumption.
(a)   Prohibition. No person shall smoke in any public place within the city
limits of the City of Longview.
(b)   Designated smoking area. The owner of or other person having authority to
manage and control a tobacco shop, bar, food establishment, bowling
establishment or bingo establishment may designate a designated smoking area
that meets all of the following requirements:
   (1)   the area is physically separated from any other public place by
impermeable ceilings and impermeable walls, exclusive of appropriate openings
for ingress and egress;
   (2)   the area is independently ventilated;
   (3)   any opening that allows ingress or egress between said area and any
public place has impermeable doors that automatically close and remain closed
unless a person is using the opening for ingress or egress; and
   (4)   the square footage of the area does not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the total square footage of said tobacco shop, bar, food establishment, bowling
establishment or bingo establishment. No person shall designate any public
place or portion of a public place as a designated smoking area unless said
person is authorized by this section to designate a designated smoking area and
the designated smoking area meets the requirements of this section.
(c)   Minors prohibited in establishment that excludes minors. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for the owner of or other person having authority to
manage and control any establishment that excludes minors to allow a minor to
enter or to remain in said establishment. It shall be a violation of this
chapter for any minor to enter or remain in an establishment that excludes
minors. For purposes of this subsection, an establishment that excludes minors
includes any establishment (1) that meets the definition of an establishment
that excludes minors or, in the alternative, (2) that is held out to others to
be an establishment that excludes minors by the owner of or other person having
authority to manage and control the area.
(d)   Minors prohibited in designated smoking area. It shall be a violation of
this chapter for the owner of or other person having authority to manage and
control any designated smoking area to allow a minor to enter or to remain in
said designated smoking area. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to enter or remain in any designated smoking area. For purposes of this
subsection, a designated smoking area includes any area (1) that meets the
definition of a designated smoking area or, in the alternative, (2) that is
held out to others to be a designated smoking area by the owner of or other
person having authority to manage and control the area.
(e)   Rebuttable presumption. For the purpose of proving a violation of
subsection (a) or subsection (b) of this section, each and every place within
the city limits of the City of Longview is presumed to be a public place. The
person charged with an offense under either of said subsections shall have the
burden of proof to show that the place in which the alleged offense occurred is
not a public place within the meaning of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3179, § 3, 1-9-03)
Sec. 88-3. Signs.
(a)   Public places. The owner of and any other person having the authority to
manage and control any public place shall post or cause to be posted and shall
prominently display and shall maintain “No Smoking” signs in a form approved by
the director in conspicuous locations within such public place. Such signs
shall clearly and conspicuously recite the phrase "No Smoking" in the English
and Spanish language and/or use the international no-smoking symbol.
(b)   Designated smoking areas. The owner of and any other person having the
authority to manage and control any designated smoking area shall post or cause
to be posted and shall prominently display and shall maintain signs stating the
following:
   "PUBLIC NOTICE
   NO PERSON UNDER 18 YEARS OF AGE MAY ENTER THIS ROOM
   SMOKING IS ALLOWED IN THIS ROOM
   SECONDHAND SMOKE IS PRESENT AND IS A KNOWN HEALTH HAZARD
   THE CHEMICALS AND TOXINS FROM SECONDHAND SMOKE MAY CAUSE DEATH AND/OR
DISABILITY"
   Said signs shall also contain wording in Spanish that is substantially the
equivalent of the above language in English. The letters on said signs shall be
a minimum of one-quarter inch in height, and the signs shall be in a form
approved by the director and shall be posted at each entrance to such
designated smoking area.
(c)   Establishment that excludes minors. The owner of and any other person
having the authority to manage and control any establishment that excludes
minors shall post or cause to be posted and shall prominently display and shall
maintain signs clearly notifying the public in English and in Spanish that
persons under 18 years of age are prohibited from entering said establishment.
Said signs shall be in a form approved by the director and shall be posted at
each entrance to such establishment that excludes minors.
(Ord. No. 3179, § 3, 1-9-03)
Sec. 88-4.   Reporting violations.
This chapter does not require the owner, operator, employer, manager or any
employee of a public place to report a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3179, § 3, 1-9-03)
Sec. 88-5.   Penalties for violations.
Any person, firm, partnership or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter shall be guilty of a class "C" misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine of not less than $25.00 nor more than $200.00; provided, however, that if
a defendant has been previously convicted under this chapter, the defendant
shall be fined an amount not less than $50.00 nor more than $500.00. It is
hereby declared that the culpable mental state required by Chapter 6.02 of the
Texas Penal Code is specifically negated and clearly dispensed with, and an
offense under this chapter is declared to be a strict liability offense.
(Ord. No. 3179, § 3, 1-9-03)
Sec. 88-6.   Effective date.
Establishments and facilities that desire to designate a designated smoking
area or to designate themselves as an establishment that excludes minors have
until September 1, 2003, to comply with the barrier and ventilation
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3179, § 3, 1-9-03)
Sec. 88-7.   Voluntary prohibition of smoking in areas that are not public
places; violations; signs.
(a)   Designation of non-smoking establishment or area. Nothing in this chapter
prevents the owner or manager of an establishment from designating the entire
establishment as a non-smoking establishment. Further, nothing in this chapter
prevents the owner or manager of an establishment that is not a public place
from designating a portion of the establishment as a non-smoking area.
(b)   Violations. Without regard to whether an establishment is a public place,
it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to smoke within said
establishment if said establishment has been designated to be a non-smoking
establishment in its entirety. Within any establishment that is not a public
place, it shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to smoke within
any portion of said establishment if said portion has been designated as a non-
smoking area by the owner or manager of said establishment.
(c)   Affirmative defense. It is an affirmative defense to prosecution under
this section that, at the time the smoking occurred, the person was smoking in
an establishment or area that did not display proper signage according to this
section.
(d)   Signs. The owner or other person having authority to manage and control
any area or establishment designated as a non-smoking area or establishment
pursuant to this section shall post or cause to be posted and shall prominently
display and shall maintain “No Smoking” signs in a form approved by the
director in conspicuous locations within such area or establishment. Such signs
shall clearly and conspicuously recite the phrase "No Smoking" in the English
and Spanish language and/or use the international no-smoking symbol.
(Ord. No. 3179, § 3, 1-9-03)
Article II. Illegal smoking products.
Sec. 88-10.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this article is to prohibit the use, possession, sale,
ingestion or smoking of illegal smoking products and ingestion devices
hereinafter defined within the city limits of the City of Longview.
   (Ord. No. 3706, § 1, 08-12-10)
Sec. 88-11.   Definitions.
   "Person" shall mean an individual, group of individuals, proprietorship,
corporation, partnership, wholesaler, retailer or any licensed or unlicensed
business.
   "Illegal Smoking Product" shall mean any substance, whether described as
tobacco, herbs, incense, spice or any blend thereof, regardless of whether the
substance is marketed for the purpose of being smoked, which includes any one
or more of the following chemicals:
   (a)   Salvia divinorum or salvinorin A; all parts of the plant presently
classified botanically as salvia divinorum, whether growing or not, the seeds
thereof, any extract from any part of such plant, and every compound,
manufacture, salts derivative, mixture or preparation of such plant, its seeds
or extracts;
   (b)   2-[(1R, 3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl{'}'}--5--(2--methylocatan--2--yl)
phenol (also known as CP47, 497) and homologues;
(c)   (6aS, 10aS)--9--(hydroxmethyl)--6, 6-dimethyl-3-(2-methyloctan-2-yl)--6a,
7, 10, 10a-tetrahydrobenzo [c] chormen-1-ol) (also known as HU-211 or
Dexanabinol);
(d)   1-Pentyl-3-(1-naphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-018); or
(e)   Butyl-3-(naphthoyl indole (also known as JWH-073).
(f)   1-pentyl-3-(4-methoxynaphthoyl) indole (also known as JWH-081).
Products containing some or all of the above substances are currently being
marketed under the following commercial names:
"Spice", "Spice Gold", "Spice DIamond", "Yucatan Fire", "Solar Flare", "Pep
Spice", "Fire N' Ice", "Genie", "Dascents", "Zohai", "Sage", "K-2", "K-
2 Summit", "K-2 Sex" and "KO Knock-Out 2".
Any product containing any of the chemical compounds set forth above shall be
subject to the provisions of this Ordinance, regardless of whether they are
marketed under alternative names.
"Ingestion Device" shall mean equipment, a product or material that is used or
intended for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing an illegal
smoking product into the human body, including:
(a)   a metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipe with or
without a screen, permanent screen, hashish head, or punctured metal bowl;
(b)   a water pipe;
(c)   a carburetion tube or device;
(d)   a smoking or carburetion mask;
(e)   a chamber pipe;
(f)   a carburetor pipe;
(g)   an electric pipe;
(h)   an air-driven pipe;
(i)   a chillum;
(j)   a bong; or
(k)   an ice pipe or chiller.
(Ord. No. 3706, § 1, 08-12-10
Sec. 88-12. Sell, offer, gift, display or possession.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, possess, purchase, barter, give,
publicly display, sell or offer for sale any illegal smoking product.
   (Ord. No. 3706, § 1, 08-12-10
Sec. 88-13. Use or possession of ingestion devices.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or possess an ingestion device to
inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body an illegal
smoking product.
   (Ord. No. 3706, § 1, 08-12-10
Sec. 88-14. Defense.
   It shall be a defense to a violation of this article that any act described
in this article is under and pursuant to the direction or prescription of a
licensed physician or dentist authorized to direct or prescribe such act.
   (Ord. No. 3706, § 1, 08-12-10)
Chapters 89 - 90
Reserved
Chapter 91
Reserved
Chapter 92
 Reserved
Chapter 93
Reserved
Chapter 94
Taxation
Article I. In General
Sec.
94-1.   Rendition of tax returns.
Sec.
94-2.   Retention of taxes imposed by Local Sales and Use Tax Act.
Sec.
94-3.   Residence homestead tax exemption.
Secs.
94-4 - 94-11.   Reserved.
Article II. Reserved
Secs.
94-12 - 94-25. Reserved.
Article III. Collection and Reassessment of Taxes
Sec.
94-26.   Authority and duty of assessor and collector to prorate.
Sec.
94-27.   Request to prorate; proration without request.
Sec.
94-28.   Record to be kept of prorating of assessments; notation upon tax
rolls.
Sec.
94-29.   Assessment rolls - To show name of owner and description of property.
Sec.
94-30.   Same - To show total amount of taxes.
Sec.
94-31.   Effect of article on original tax assessment sheets.
Sec.
94-32.   Sales of real estate for taxes.
Sec.
94-33.   Assessment of franchises, etc.
Sec.
94-34.   City Council shall reassess in case of irregularities.
Sec.
94-35.   Notice required prior to reassessment.
Sec.
94-36.   Hearing; plan of reassessment; provisions for payment and lien;
certificates.
Sec.
94-37.   Appeal.
Sec.
94-38.   Assessments not invalidated by mistakes, etc.
Sec.
94-39.   Time taxes due.
Secs.
94-40 - 94-45. Reserved.
Article IV. Hotel Occupancy Tax
Sec.
94-46.   Definitions.
Sec.
94-47.   Hotel occupancy tax.
Sec.
94-48.   Collection of tax.
Sec.
94-49.   Reports; payment of tax; reimbursements.
Sec.
94-50.   Power and duties of City Manager.
Sec.
94-51.   Penalties.
Sec.
94-52.   Severability.
Article I.
In General
Sec. 94-1. Rendition of tax returns.
All persons shall, on or before the first day of June of each and every year,
furnish the assessor and collector of taxes of the city a full and complete
statement, list and schedule, verified by affidavit, of all real and personal
property situated in the city, and all personal property located elsewhere, and
subject to taxation in the city, owned, held or controlled by them, or in their
possession as agent, bailee, warehouseman or custodian on the first day of
January next preceding and shall in such statement, list and schedule, state
the name and address of the owner or owners of such property.
(Code 1943, Art. 53-1)
Sec. 94-2. Retention of taxes imposed by Local Sales and Use Tax Act.
The city, by majority vote of its governing body, hereby votes to retain the
taxes authorized by the Local Sales and Use Tax Act (Article 1066C, Vernon's
Texas Civil Statutes) on the receipts from the sale, production, distribution,
lease, or rental of, and the use, storage, or other consumption of gas and
electricity for residential use, as authorized by Section 6 of House Bill No.
1, Acts 1978, 65th Legislature, Second Called Session.
(Ord. No. 1241, § 1, 4-10-79)
Sec. 94-3. Residence homestead tax exemption.
Ten thousand dollars of the market value of residence homesteads of persons,
married or unmarried, including those living alone, who are under a disability
for purposes of payment of disability insurance benefits under federal old-age,
survivor's and disability insurance or its successor is hereby exempted from
all ad valorem taxes levied by the city after January 1, 1982.
(Ord. No. 1434, Art. I, 9-8-81)
Secs. 94-4 - 94-11.   Reserved.
Article II.
Reserved
Secs. 94-12 - 94-25. Reserved.
Article III.
Collection and Reassessment of Taxes
Sec. 94-26. Authority and duty of assessor and collector to prorate.
The assessor and collector of taxes of the city is hereby authorized, and it is
hereby made his duty to prorate the taxes against tracts of land owned by
different owners, which leave been taxed together as one tract, and to
apportion the lien held by the city for such taxes on each of the several
tracts according to its proportion to the whole assessment.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-1)
Sec. 94-27. Request to prorate; proration without request.
The assessor and collector of taxes shall, upon the request of any owner of any
tract of land whose property has been assessed together with any other tract of
land, divide and apportion the lien to each of the tracts and prorate the taxes
to each, as prescribed by Section 94-26. And if deemed necessary by the
assessor and collector of taxes for the enforcement of the taxes due the city,
he may prorate the taxes and apportion the lien, as prescribed by Section 94-
26, without first being requested so to do by the owner or owners of the tracts
of land, but in such case he shall notify the owner or owners of such tracts of
land of his intention so to do, where the owners of the same are known to him,
by giving each of such owners or their agents notice in writing three days
prior to the time that said assessment of their property is to be prorated;
provided, that if the name or address of any such owner or his agent is
unknown, it shall be deemed sufficient notice if the assessor and collector of
taxes shall post notice of his proposed intention to prorate the taxes in three
public places in the city for a period of three days prior to the prorating of
such taxes.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-2)
Sec. 94-28. Record to be kept of prorating of assessments; notation upon tax
rolls.
The assessor and collector of taxes shall keep a well-bound book in which the
prorating of all assessments made under the terms of this article shall be
noted as well as the names of the owners of the different tracts of land, and
shall show in the book whether the assessment is made upon the request of the
owner or owners of such tracts of land or by the assessor and collector of
taxes without such request, and such record of such prorating by the assessor
and collector of taxes shall be considered prima facie evidence that all the
requirements of the city Charter and of this article have been complied with.
The assessor and collector shall note upon the tax rolls in some suitable
manner the fact of the apportionment of such taxes, as well as the
apportionment of the lien.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-3)
Sec. 94-29. Assessment rolls - To show name of owner and description of
property.
The tax assessment rolls of the city shall be so compiled that the same shall
exhibit a complete record of the name of the owner or owners of each piece of
property listed and included upon the assessment rolls, so far as such owner
can be ascertained; if the same be real property, the assessment roll shall
give the assessed value, and an adequate description of each piece of property
upon the rolls, and shall give the number of acres or portion of an acre, or
number of lots and blocks, or portions of such, contained in or composing the
particular piece of property so listed, together with the value of any
improvements that may be located thereon; or if it be personal property, the
rolls shall give a general description of the personal property owned,
according to its class or character, and the total value thereof shall be shown
by the assessment rolls.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-5)
Sec. 94-30. Same - To show total amount of taxes.
The assessment rolls shall exhibit opposite the property listed for taxation,
the total amount of taxes assessed against such piece of property or properties
so listed, but it shall not be necessary for such assessment roll to show what
proportionate amount of the total tax levied against any particular piece of
property is levied by virtue of the general ad valorem tax or several special
taxes assessed and levied under the authority of the city.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-6)
Sec. 94-31. Effect of article on original tax assessment sheets.
Nothing in this article shall be construed to effect the manner and form of
making up the original tax assessment sheets by the city tax assessor.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-7)
Sec. 94-32. Sales of real estate for taxes.
It shall be the duty of the assessor and collector of taxes of the city, in
making sales of real estate for delinquent taxes thereon, to make such sale at
the courthouse door of Gregg County, Texas, and as far as practicable, all the
lands and city lots levied upon for taxes shall be advertised in one notice and
be sold on the same day; and such sales may be continued from day to day until
concluded, but at the close of each day the assessor and collector of taxes
shall make proclamation of such continuance on the following day. No sale shall
be considered complete until the payment of the purchase money and if the same
is not paid before the completion of the tax sales, the assessor and collector
shall resell the property and continue such sale until the same is complete.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-8)
Sec. 94-33. Assessment of franchises, etc.
Every franchise, privilege, easement or right of an intangible or incorporeal
character, whether owned by an individual or corporation, shall be rendered by
the owner thereof or the agent of the owner, and shall be assessed for taxation
separately and distinct from the real property and tangible or corporeal
personal property of the owner, and the same shall in every case be valued
separately from the real property and tangible personal property of the owner,
and shall in every instance be carried as an item of separate and distinct
valuation upon the assessment sheets and tax rolls of the city.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-9)
Sec. 94-34. City Council shall reassess in case of irregularities.
Whenever, under the terms of the Charter of the city, it shall be, or shall
have been, determined that an error, mistake or invalidity exists in any
proceeding with reference to the improvement of any highway in this city
heretofore ordered or which may be hereafter ordered improved, pursuant to the
Charter, code of ordinances of this city, or that any of such proceedings or
any assessment of any part of the costs of such improvements against the owners
of property abutting thereon, or their property, is erroneous, invalid,
illegal, unlawful or unenforceable, the City Council shall correct such error,
invalidity, mistake, irregularity or illegality, and when it has been so
determined that any such property has been omitted from assessment, or that
there is any such invalidity, error, mistake, irregularity or illegality in any
assessment or in the proceedings prior thereto with reference to such
improvement, the City Council shall make the necessary correction to determine
the amount justly and lawfully payable by them in accordance with the
proceedings with reference to such improvement; provided, that in no case shall
any amount be assessed against any such owner or his property in excess of the
special benefit to his property in the enhanced value thereof by means of such
improvement.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-10)
Sec. 94-35. Notice required prior to reassessment.
Before any such reassessment shall be made the governing body shall by
resolution declare the necessity thereof and the name or names of the then
owners of property affected thereby, and a description of the property proposed
to be reassessed by lot or block number, front foot or any description
sufficiently identifying same, and shall in general terms state the nature of
the defects, irregularities, mistakes or illegalities to be corrected and the
total amount, and amount per front foot of property proposed to be reassessed
against each of said owners. Said resolution shall set a time and place at
which a hearing shall be given before the City Council to such owners, their
agents or attorneys, or any interested party, and shall direct the City
Secretary to give notice thereof to all owners, lien holders and other
interested parties by publication for the time and in the manner provided in
the Charter for giving notice to property owners and other interested parties
with reference to an original assessment of their property for improvement of
highways in the city, and the terms of the Charter as to the giving of such
original notices shall govern and control the form and method of giving notice
provided by this article as far as possible, and the date of the first
publication of such notice.
The City Council may provide for the giving of further and additional notice,
but the notice by publication shall, in all cases, be sufficient and binding,
whether any additional notice be given, or if given, be for any reason
defective, and by such published notice the real and true owners of the
property to be reassessed shall be legally and sufficiently notified.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-11)
Sec. 94-36. Hearing; plan of reassessment; provisions for payment and lien;
certificates.
When notice has been given, as provided in Section 94-35, at the time and place
mentioned in the resolution referred to in Section 94-35 to the owners of
property proposed to be reassessed, their agents or attorneys, or any
interested parties, as to all matters affecting said property or the benefits
thereto of such improvement, or any invalidity, irregularity or illegality in
any of the proceeding with reference to the making of said improvements or any
claim of liability, and said owners and interested parties may interpose any
other objections to such reassessment, and the special benefits of said
improvements to said property may be inquired into, determined and contested.
Such owners and interested parties, their agents and attorneys shall file their
objections in writing and thereafter the City Council shall hear and determine
the same, and full opportunity shall be given to the persons filing such
objections to produce evidence, subpoena witnesses and to appear in person or
by attorney, and a full and fair hearing thereof shall be given by the city,
which hearing may be adjourned from day to day and from time to time without
further notice until all have been fully heard, and the City Council shall have
the power to inquire into and determine all facts necessary to the adjudication
of such objection and the ascertainment of special benefits to such owner or
owners by means of such improvements, and shall determine from the evidence
before it and other facts in its possession the amount, if any, which shall be
reassessed against any owner and his property, and shall correct all the
errors, mistakes or irregularities in the proceedings before had with reference
to such improvements, and shall by ordinance make reassessment. Any objection
to the regularity of the proceedings, or to the validity of any reassessment or
adjudication of personal liability against such property and the owners
thereof, shall be deemed waived, unless presented at the time and in the manner
herein specified.
Subject to the terms hereof, the amount to be reassessed against each owner and
his property shall be in accordance with the front foot plan or rule, that is,
in the proportion of the cost of the original improvement that the front feet
of property of each owner to be reassessed is to be the total frontage of
property abutting on the highway or portion thereof improved, but if, in the
opinion of the governing body, the strict application of this rule would in any
particular case result in inequality or injustice, then such rule or
apportionment shall be adopted as will in the opinion of the governing body
provide substantial justice and equality, taking into consideration the burden
imposed upon owners of property abutting upon the improvement and the special
benefit received by them.
The reassessment ordinance shall provide the manner and terms and time of
payment of such reassessment and the rate of interest charged thereon, and
shall provide that amounts reassessed, together with interest and cost of
collection, and reasonable attorney fees when incurred, shall be secured by a
first and prior lien upon the property against which they are reassessed,
superior to all other liens, claims or titles except lawful ad valorem taxes,
and that the sum so reassessed shall constitute a personal liability of the
owner of the property against which said reassessment shall be made.
The ordinance shall also provide for the issuance of assignable certificates
against the property so reassessed and its owners for the enforcement of said
reassessments in the same manner as provided in the original assessment
ordinance for such improvement, and such certificate shall have the same force
and effect as to such reassessment as valid original certificates had as to
such original assessments.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-12)
Sec. 94-37. Appeal.
At any time within ten days after the hearing provided for in Section 94-36 has
been concluded, any person having any interest in any real estate which may be
subject to reassessment under such resolution, or otherwise having any
financial interest in such improvement or improvements, or in the manner in
which the cost of such reassessment is to be paid, who may desire to contest on
any ground the validity of any proceeding that may have been bad with reference
to the making of such improvement or the validity in whole or any part of any
such reassessment, lien or personal liability fixed by any of such proceedings,
may institute suit for that purpose in any court of competent jurisdiction. Any
person who shall fail to institute such suit within such period of ten days, or
who shall fail to diligently prosecute such suit in good faith to final
judgment, shall be forever barred from making any such contest or contests, or
defense in any other action, and this estoppel shall bind their heirs,
administrators, successors and assigns.
The city and the person to whom is let the contract for the making of the
original improvement for which such reassessment is made, shall be made
defendants in such suit or any other proper parties may be joined therein, and
the petition in such suit shall comply with all the formalities required by,
shall be verified in the manner required by and shall be subject to all the
terms of the provisions of the Charter of this city with reference to such
suits in original assessment proceedings.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-13)
Sec. 94-38. Assessments not invalidated by mistakes, etc.
No mistake, irregularity, omission or failure to assess or reassess any
property or person liable for any part of the cost of any improvement shall
invalidate any reassessment made under the terms of this article unless such
mistake or irregularity or omission or failure to assess or reassess would have
invalidated an original assessment for such improvement under the terms of the
Charter.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-14)
Sec. 94-39. Time taxes due.
All city ad valorem taxes shall be due and payable on October first of the year
for which levied, and shall become delinquent at midnight of January thirty-
first of the following year, and upon becoming delinquent, a penalty of ten
percent shall be added and interest at the rate of six percent per annum
accrue. A lien is hereby created on all property, both real and personal for
all ad valorem taxes, which lien shall exist from the first day of January each
year until all the taxes are paid, and that such lien shall be prior and
superior to all other liens and claims.
(Code 1943, Art. 54-15)
Secs. 94-40 - 94-45. Reserved.
Article IV.
Hotel Occupancy Tax
Sec. 94-46. Definitions.
The following words, terms and phrases are, for the purpose of this article,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning, defined as
follows:
   City Manager shall mean the City Manager of the city.
   Consideration shall mean the cost of the room, sleeping space, bed or
dormitory space or other facilities in such hotel and shall not include the
cost of any food served or personal services rendered to the occupant not
related to cleaning and readying such room or space for occupancy, and shall
not include any tax assessed for occupancy thereof by any other governmental
agency.
   Hotel shall mean any building or buildings, trailer, or other facility in
which the public may, for a consideration, obtain sleeping accommodations. The
term shall include hotels, motels, tourist homes, houses or courts, lodging
houses, inns, rooming houses, trailer houses, trailer motels, apartments not
occupied by permanent residents, as that term is hereinafter defined, and all
other facilities where rooms or sleeping facilities or space are furnished for
a consideration, but hotel shall not be defined so as to include hospitals,
sanitariums or nursing homes.
   Occupancy shall mean the use or possession, or the right to the use or
possession of any room, space or sleeping facility in a hotel for any purpose.
   Occupant shall mean anyone, who, for a consideration, uses, possesses or has
a right to use or possess any room or rooms, or sleeping space or facility in a
hotel under any lease, concession, permit, right of access, license, contract
or agreement.
   Permanent resident shall mean any occupant who has or shall have the right
to occupancy of any room or rooms or sleeping space or facility in a hotel for
at least 30 consecutive days during the current calendar year or preceding
year.
   Person shall mean any individual, company, corporation, or association
owning, operating, managing or controlling any hotel.
   Tax assessor-collector shall mean the tax assessor-collector of the city.
(Ord. No. 899, § 1, 6-12-73)
Sec. 94-47. Hotel occupancy tax.
(a)   There is hereby levied a tax upon the cost of occupancy of any room or
space furnished by any hotel where such cost is at the rate of $2.00 or more
per day, such tax to be equal to nine percent of the consideration paid by the
occupant of such room, space or facility to such hotel, exclusive of other
occupancy taxes imposed by other governmental agencies.
(b)   In accordance with Section 351.003 (f) of the Texas Tax Code, all revenue
received by the city that is derived from the application of the tax imposed by
this section at a rate of more than seven percent of the price paid for a room
in a hotel shall be allocated for construction, expansion, maintenance, or
operation of convention center facilities. In this section, the term
"convention center facilities" has the meaning assigned to that term in Section
351.001 of the Texas Tax Code as said section may from time to time be amended.
(c)   No tax shall be imposed hereunder upon a permanent resident.
(d)   No tax shall be imposed hereunder upon a corporation or association
organized and operated exclusively for religious, charitable or educational
purposes, no part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any
private shareholder or individual.
(Ord. No. 899, 8-1-73; Ord. No. 1267, 8-14-79; Ord. No. 1787, 9-10-85; Ord. No.
3809, 2-23-12)
Sec. 94-48. Collection of tax.
Every person owning, operating, managing or controlling any hotel shall collect
the tax imposed in Section 94-47 hereof for the city and as of October 1, 1987,
and thereafter said tax shall be a preferred lien, first and prior to any and
all other existing liens, contract or statutory, legal or equitable, and
regardless of the time such liens originated and this lien shall attach as of
the date such tax is due and payable but before such lien shall become a lien
on real estate, notice thereof shall be filed in the county deed records where
the real estate is located on which the lien is desired. Said lien shall not be
valid or effective as against any mortgagee, holder of a deed of trust,
purchaser, pledgee, or judgment creditor acquiring title, lien or other right
or interest before such notice has been so filed and recorded.
(Ord. No. 899, § 3, 6-12-73, Ord. No. 1914, 10-1-87)
Sec. 94-49. Reports; payment of tax; reimbursements.
On the last day of the month following each calendar month, every person
required in Section 94-48 to collect the tax imposed herein shall file a report
with the Finance Director showing the consideration paid for all room
occupancies in the preceding calendar month, the amount of the tax collected on
such occupancies, and any other information as the Finance Director may
reasonably require. Such person shall pay the tax due on such occupancies at
the time of filing such report.
(Ord. No. 899, § 4, 6-12-73, Ord. No. 1914, 10-1-87)
Sec. 94-50. Power and duties of City Manager.
The City Manager shall have the power to make such rules and regulations as are
necessary to effectively collect the tax levied herein, and shall upon
reasonable notice have access to books and records necessary to enable him to
determine the correctness of any report filed as required by this article and
the amount of taxes due under the provisions of this article.
(Ord. No. 899, § 5, 6-12-73)
Sec. 94-51. Penalties.
If any person shall fail to collect the tax imposed herein, or shall fail to
file a report as required herein, or shall fail to pay to the tax assessor-
collector the tax as imposed herein when said report for payment is due, or
shall file a false report, then such person shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.00.
Any failure to pay the tax by the date such tax is due shall cause a penalty of
five percent of the amount of tax for the month to be assessed if paid by the
end of the second month and ten percent if paid after the end of the second
month for which such tax is due. Provided, however, that the penalty shall
never be less than one dollar. Delinquent taxes shall draw interest at the rate
of six percent per annum beginning sixty days from the date due.
(Ord. No. 1914, 10-1-87)
Sec. 94-52. Severability.
If any section, clause, paragraph or provision of this article shall be held
unconstitutional or void, then the invalidity of such section, clause,
paragraph or provision shall not affect the other provisions of this article,
and the same shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. No. 899, § 7, 6-12-73)
Chapter 95
Telecommunications and Cable Television Regulations
Article I. Franchising and Regulation of Cable Television Systems
Sec.
95-1.   Definitions.
Sec.
95-2.   General provisions.
Sec.
95-3.   Requirements for issuing new cable television franchises.
Sec.
95-4.   Transfers and assignments.
Sec.
95-5.   Liability and indemnification.
Sec.
95-6.   Cable system construction.
Sec.
95-7.   Regulations pertaining to use of city streets and public rights-of-way.
Sec.
95-8.   System operation.
Sec.
95-9.   Customer service standards.
Sec.
95-10.   Parental control.
Sec.
95-11.   Customer billing.
Sec.
95-12.   Enforcement of customer service standards.
Sec.
95-13.   Reports and records of cable television operation.
Sec.
95-14.   Rate regulation.
Sec.
95-15.   Franchise renewal process.
Sec.
95-16.   Letter of credit.
Sec.
95-17.   Liquidated damages.
Sec.
95-18.   Forfeiture and termination.
Sec.
95-19.   Purchase of CATV system by city under 47 U.S.C. 547.
Sec.
95-20.   Waivers.
Sec.
95-21.   Miscellaneous provisions.
Article II. Regulation of the City's Emergency Radio Broadcast Corridor
Sec.
95-22.   Definitions.
Sec.
95-23.   Prohibition of construction which interferes with the emergency radio
broadcast corridor.
Sec.
95-24.   Penalties.
Secs.
95-25 - 95-49. Reserved.
Sec.
95-50.   Quarterly access line report.
Secs.
95-51 - 95-70.  Reserved.
Article III. Enhanced 911 Emergency Communication System Fee
Sec.
95-71.    Definitions.
Sec.
95-72.    E9-1-1 fee imposed; use of E9-1-1 fee.
Sec.
95-73.    Assessment, collection and delinquency.
Sec.
95-74.    Collection agreement authorized.
Sec.
95-75.    Collection fee authorized.
Sec.
95-76.    Enforcement.
Article I.
Franchising and Regulation of Cable Television Systems
Sec. 95-1. Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words and terms have the following
meanings:
   Applicable law means all lawfully enacted and applicable federal, state, and
city laws, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations, and orders as the same may be
amended or adopted from time to time.
   Basic service tier. A basic service tier shall, at a minimum, consist of the
following: All signals carried in fulfillment of the requirements of sections
614 (47 U.S.C. 534) and 615 (47 U.S.C. 535) of the Communications Act of 1934,
as amended. Each such tier shall also include any public, educational and
governmental access programming required by the franchise of the cable system
to be provided to subscribers; and any signal of any television broadcast
station that is provided by the cable operator to any subscribers (except a
signal which is secondarily transmitted by a satellite carrier beyond the local
service area of such station), plus any additional video programming signals
the cable operator desires to be added to the basic tier.
   Cable service means (a) the one-way transmission to subscribers of (i) video
programming, or (ii) other programming service, and (b) subscriber interaction,
if any, which is required for the selection or use of such video programming or
other programming service.
   Cable system means a facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control equipment that
is designed to provide cable service which includes video programming and which
is provided to multiple subscribers within the city. Such term shall not
include (a) a facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations; (b) a facility that serves
subscribers without using any public right-of-way; (c) a facility of a common
carrier which is subject, in whole or in part, to the provisions of Title II of
the Communications Act of 1934, except that such facility shall be considered a
cable system (other than for purposes of section 621(c)) to the extent such
facility is used in the transmission of video programming directly to
subscribers; (d) any facilities of any electric utility used solely for
operating its electric utility systems; (e) an open video system that complies
with the requirements of the Cable Act. A reference to a cable system refers to
any part thereof, including, without limitation, converters. The foregoing
definition of cable system shall not be deemed to circumscribe or limit the
valid authority of the city to regulate or franchise the activities of any
other telecommunications system or provider of telecommunications services to
the full extent permitted by law. Any franchise agreement shall define the
services any franchisee is authorized to provide.
   Cable system operator means any person, group of persons, firm or
corporation (a) who provides cable service over a cable television system and
directly or through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such
cable system, or (b) who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any
arrangement, the management and operation of such cable system.
   City means the City of Longview, a municipality and home rule city,
organized and existing under the laws of the State of Texas and its city
Charter, and the area within its territorial limits.
   City Council or Council. Wherever the words Council or City Council are
used, they shall be construed to mean the City Council of the City of Longview,
Texas.
   Communications Act of 1934 means the legislation passed by Congress in 1934
that established a national telecommunications goal of high quality,
universally available telephone service at reasonable cost. The Act also
established the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The Cable
Communications Policy Act of 1984, the Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992, and the Telecommunications Act of 1996 have all
amended the Communications Act of 1934 as newer telecommunications technologies
and national policies have evolved.
   Federal Communications Commission  or FCC. That federal agency as presently
constituted by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor
agency.
   Franchise means a non-exclusive authorization granted in accordance with
this article and exercised in accordance with a franchise agreement to install
cables, wires, lines, optical fiber, underground conduit, and other devices
necessary and appurtenant to the construction, operation, and maintenance of a
cable system along the public rights-of-way within all or a portion of the city
to provide cable service. Any such authorization, in whatever form granted,
shall not mean or include: (i) any other permit or authorization required for
the privilege of transacting and carrying on a business within the city
required by the ordinances and laws of the city; (ii) any permit, agreement,
franchise for non-cable services, or authorization required in connection with
operations on public streets or property including, without limitation, permits
and agreements for placing devices on or in poles, conduits or other
structures, whether owned by the city or a private entity, or for excavating or
performing other work in or along public rights-of-way; or (iii) express or
implicit authorization to provide cable service to, or install a cable system
on, private property without owner consent (except for use of compatible
easements pursuant to section 621(a)(2) of the Cable Act, 47 U.S.C. section 541
(a)(2).
   Franchise agreement means a contract entered into in accordance with the
provisions of this article between the city and a grantee that sets forth,
subject to this article, the terms and conditions under which a franchise will
be exercised.
   Franchise area means the area of the city that a grantee is authorized to
serve by its franchise agreement.
   Grantee. A natural person, partnership, domestic and or foreign corporation
or entity, association, joint venture or organization of any kind granted a
franchise by the City Council under this article and its lawful successor,
transferee or assignee.
   Gross revenues means all amounts, which are charged and/or received,
directly or indirectly, by a grantee from or in connection with the operation
of the cable system to provide cable services including, without limitation:
Any revenue received from subscribers, including but not limited to revenue for
basic service, expanded basic service, other tier services, additional outlets,
FM service, commercial service, premium channel service, pay-per-view service
and related per-event services, or for the distribution of any other cable
service over the system, including internet access and related internet
services, or the provision of any service-related activity in connection with
the operation of the system.
Revenue received from subscribers for installation, change in service and
reconnection charges and similar fees.
Revenue received from subscribers for converters, remote controls or other
equipment leased or rented to subscribers in connection with the delivery of
cable services to such subscribers.
Revenue received from subscribers for service charges and late fees
attributable to delinquent accounts.
Revenue received from third parties, including advertising revenue, tower
rental revenues, home shopping commissions, guide commissions, leased access
payments, and studio and other facilities or equipment rentals.
Revenue shall include any payment or consideration (including copyright and
franchise fees, but excluding any utility users tax or new sales tax imposed by
the city, state, or federal government) collected for direct payment to a third
party. Franchise fees paid to the city are not deemed to be taxes and are not
to be deducted from the total gross revenue figure on which franchise fees are
paid.
Gross revenues shall include amounts collected from subscribers for franchise
agreement fees in accordance with the Court of Appeals decision resolving the
case commonly known as the Dallas or Baltimore case, In re: United Artists
Cable of Baltimore, 11 FCC Rcd 18,158 (FCC 96-188, April 26, 1996); reversed by
the United States Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit sub nom City of Dallas
v. FCC. 119 F/ 3d 917 (5th Cir 1997).
Gross revenue shall also include the gross revenue of any other person which is
derived directly or indirectly from or in connection with the operation of a
system to the extent that said revenue is derived, through a means which has
the effect of avoiding the payment of franchise fees to the city that would
otherwise be paid herein.
There shall be deducted from gross revenue:
   (1)   Bad debts written off by grantee in the normal course of its business,
provided, however, that bad debt recoveries shall be included in gross revenue.
   (2)   Refunds made to subscribers or other third parties.
In computing gross revenue from sources other than a grantee's subscribers,
including without limitation, revenue derived from the sale of advertising,
home shopping services, guide sales, the lease of channel capacity on its cable
system, or any other such revenues derived from the operation of the cable
system, the amount of such revenues attributable or allocated to grantee in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, for the purpose of
determining gross revenues, shall be the aggregate revenue received by grantee
from such other sources during the period in question multiplied by a fraction,
the numerator of which shall be the number of grantee's subscribers in the city
as of the last day of such period and the denominator of which shall be the
number of subscribers within all areas of such period.
   Person means an individual, partnership, association, joint stock grantee,
organization, corporation, or any lawful successor thereto or transferee
thereof, but such term does not include the city.
   Public rights-of-way means the surface, the air space above the surface, and
the area below the surface of any public street, highway, lane, path, alley,
sidewalk, boulevard, drive, bridge, tunnel, parkway, waterway, easement, or
similar property in which the city now or hereafter holds any property
interest, which, consistent with the purposes for which it was dedicated, may
be used for the purpose of installing and maintaining, a cable system. No
reference herein, or in any franchise agreement, to a public rights-of-way
shall be deemed to be a representation or guarantee by the city that its
interest or other right to control the use of such property is sufficient to
permit its use for such purposes, and a franchisee shall be deemed to gain only
those rights to use as are properly in the city and as the city may have the
undisputed right and power to give.
   Subscriber. Any person who legally receives any service delivered over a
cable system.
   Total number of subscribers means the number of subscribers determined as
follows: In the event a single fee is paid for service to a multiple dwelling
unit the number of equivalent subscribers shall be determined by dividing such
fee by the then prevailing basic service tier rate and rounding the resulting
quotient to the nearest whole number. To this number shall be added the number
of all other subscribers.
The definitions contained in this article rely on those contained in the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. Section 521 et seq.), as it is from time
to time amended and interpreted. Any ambiguity shall be resolved by reference
to the federal statutes, regulations and the decisions interpreting the same.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-2. General provisions.
(a)   Scope of city's authority. The city may grant one or more franchises, and
each such franchise shall be awarded in accordance with and subject to the
provisions of this article.
(b)   Franchise required. A franchise is required of any person desiring to
construct, operate and maintain a cable system within all or any portion of the
city. A franchise may be granted by the City Council to any person, whether
operating under an existing franchise or not, who or which offers to furnish
and provide such cable system under and pursuant to the terms and provisions of
this article and a franchise agreement acceptable to the Council. The grant of
a cable franchise is not an authorization to provide other services nor is it a
bar to the imposition of other compensation requirements.
(c)   Rights reserved to city. The city hereby expressly reserves the following
rights:
   (1)   To exercise its governmental powers, now or hereafter, to the full
extent that such powers may be vested in or granted to the city.
   (2)   To adopt and promulgate ordinances as it shall find reasonably
necessary in the exercise of its lawful police power. Such power shall include
all rights the city may have under 47 U.S.C. section 552 and the absolute right
of the city to manage the public rights-of-way and to adopt such regulations
relating to the management of the public rights-of-way as the city and/or its
departments shall provide. Nothing in a franchise agreement shall be deemed to
waive the requirements of the various codes and ordinances of the city
regarding permits, fees to be paid, or manner of construction.
      The powers of the city may be exercised through amendment of this article
as well as through enactment of separate ordinances and regulations.
(d)   Unlawful acts; penalties. It shall be unlawful for any person to
establish, operate or carry on the business of distributing to any persons in
the city any television signals or radio signals by means of a cable system
unless a franchise therefore has first been obtained pursuant to the provisions
of this article, and unless such franchise is in full force and effect.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized connection,
whether physically, electrically, acoustically, inductively, or otherwise, with
any part of a franchised cable system within the city for the purpose of
enabling himself or herself or others to receive any television signal, radio
signal, picture, program or sound, without payment to the owner of the cable
system.
   It shall be unlawful for any person without the consent of a grantee, to
willfully tamper with, remove or injure any cables, wires or equipment used for
distribution of television signals, radio signals, pictures, programs or sound.
   Any person violating any subsection of this section shall be punished by a
fine or by imprisonment or by both fine and imprisonment in accordance with
federal, state or local law; provided further that, subject to any state or
federal law imposing a higher penalty, violation of this article as specified
in this subsection (d) is hereby declared a misdemeanor and upon adjudication
of guilt thereof, any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or
refuses to comply with or who resists the enforcement of the provisions of this
subsection (d) shall be assessed a fine for each offense in accordance with
Section 1-4 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Longview, Texas. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall be deemed a separate offense for
which a separate fine may be assessed.
(e)   Failure of city to enforce compliance. A grantee shall not be excused
from complying with any of the provisions of this article or the terms and
conditions of a franchise agreement by any failure of the city, upon any one or
more occasions, to insist upon the grantee's performance or to seek grantee's
compliance with any of the provisions of the ordinance or terms or conditions
of a franchise agreement.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-3. Requirements for issuing new cable television franchises.
(a)   Application non-refundable fee. An application for a new cable television
franchise (not a franchise renewal) shall be submitted to the Council, or its
designee, in accordance with the procedures established by the Council. The
application will contain facts and information the Council deems appropriate.
Applications shall be accompanied by a standard, nonrefundable application fee
set by resolution of the City Council to the order of the City of Longview
which amount shall be used by the city to offset direct expenses incurred in
the franchising and evaluation procedures, including, but no limited to staff
time and consulting assistance.
(b)   Grantee to pay costs of granting franchise. An applicant to whom the
Council grants a nonexclusive franchise, in addition to the nonrefundable fee
specified hereinabove, shall pay to the city, within 30 days of receipt of
notice of the amount, an amount set by the Council, or its designee, which
shall represent the remaining out-of-pocket costs incurred by the city, in
granting the franchise and not defrayed by fees forthcoming from the provisions
of subsection (a) of this section.
(c)   Procedure required by city to process an application and/or require a
request for proposals.
   (1)   Upon receipt of an application, the city may either: (i) evaluate the
application pursuant to Section 95-3(c)(4) conducting such investigations as it
deems necessary; or (ii) issue a request for proposals after conducting, if
necessary, a proceeding to identify the future cable related needs and
interests of the community. Any such request for proposals shall be provided to
the person applying for an initial franchise and made available to any other
interested party. The request for proposals may contain a proposed franchise
agreement.
   (2)   An applicant shall respond to a request for proposals by filing an
application within the time directed by the city that contains the information
and material set forth in Section 95-3(d), application requirements. The
procedures, instructions, and requirements set forth in the request for
proposals shall be followed by each applicant. Any applicant that has already
filed an application need not refile the same materials with its response to
the request for proposals, but must supplement its application to include any
additional or different information or material required of the request for
proposals. The city or its designee may seek additional information from any
applicant and establish deadlines for the submission of such information.
   (3)   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 95-3(a) and (b), a person
may apply for an initial franchise by submitting an unsolicited application
containing the information required in Section 95-3(d), (application
requirements) and requesting an evaluation of that application pursuant to
Section 95-3(c)(4). Prior to evaluating such an application, the city may
conduct such investigations as are necessary to determine whether the
application satisfies the standards set forth in Section 95-3(c)(4). The city
may seek additional applications.
   (4)   In evaluating an application for a franchise, the city shall consider,
among other things, the following factors:
      a.   whether the applicant has the financial, technical, and legal
qualifications to provide cable service;
      b.   whether the application satisfies any minimum requirements
established by the city and is otherwise reasonable to meet the future cable-
related needs and interests of the community, taking into account the cost of
meeting such needs and interests;
      c.   whether, to the extent not considered under Section 95-3(c)(2),
above, the applicant will provide adequate public, educational, and
governmental access channel capacity, facilities, or financial support;
      d.   whether issuance of a franchise is in the public interest
considering the immediate and future effect on the public rights-of-way and
private property that would be affected by the cable system, including the
extent to which installation or maintenance as planned would require
replacement of property or involve disruption of property, public services, or
use of the public rights-of-way; the effect of granting a franchise on the
ability of the existing franchisee, if any, to meet the cable related needs and
interests of the community; and the comparative superiority or inferiority of
competing applications; and
      e.   what effects a grant of a franchise may have on competition in the
delivery of cable service in the city.
   If the city finds that it is in the public interest to issue a franchise
after considering the factors set forth above, and subject to the applicant's
entry into a franchise agreement, it shall issue a franchise. If the city
denies an application for an initial franchise, it will issue a written
decision setting forth its reasons for denial. Prior to deciding whether or not
to issue a franchise, the city will hold one or more public hearings or
implement other procedures under which comments from the public on an
application may be received. The city may reject any application that is
incomplete or fails to respond to a request for proposals. This section is not
intended and shall not be interpreted to grant any applicant standing to
challenge the denial of its application or the issuance of a franchise to
another.
(d)   Application requirements. Ten copies of the application shall be filed
with the City Secretary and shall contain such information as the city may
require, including but not limited to:
   (1)   a general description of the applicant's proposed operation;
   (2)   a statement detailing its business or corporate organization;
including but not limited to the identification of any person, persons, or
entity holding a five percent or greater interest in the applicant's business
and a statement disclosing five percent or greater interests that the applicant
has in any other business, corporation or partnership and a statement
describing all intra-grantee relationships of the applicant, including parent,
subsidiary or affiliated companies;
   (3)   a written commitment to timely service and restoration of property;
   (4)   a schedule of proposed charges;
   (5)   a statement setting forth the channels to be allocated for public,
educational, and governmental use as contemplated by 47 U.S.C. Section 531, and
for leased access as required by 47 U.S.C. Section 532; a description of the
production facilities and equipment to be made available by the applicant for
access; and a statement establishing any additional revenues to be designated
for programming or programming assistance for the access channels;
   (6)   if applicant is a corporation, audited financial statements for the
five previous fiscal years. If applicant is a partnership, copies of the "U.S.
Partnership Return of Income" (IRS Form 1065) for the five previous fiscal
years. If applicant is a sole proprietorship, copies of personal financial
statements for the five previous fiscal years;
   (7)   an estimated five year operations proforma which shall include the
initial and continuing plan investment, annual profit and loss statements
detailing income and expenses, annual balance sheets, and annual levels of
subscriber penetration. The proforma shall also state the average return on
investment anticipated by the applicant for the five year operations period and
shall state the method of computation thereof. Costs anticipated for voluntary
services or contributions shall, if presented, be incorporated in the proforma
as required in this article, but shall be separately identified in the
proforma;
   (8)   a list of existing franchises held by the applicant indicating when
the franchises were issued and when the systems were constructed in each
respective governmental unit, together with the name and address and phone
number of a responsible governmental official knowledgeable of the applicant;
   (9)   a statement detailing the applicant's prior operational experience in
cable television systems and/or microwave service, including that of its
officers, management and any staff to be associated with the proposed
operation;
   (10)   a general statement of the applicant's ability and intent to
incorporate technological improvements and advancements in the cable television
system as such improvements or advancements are generally available in the
industry; and
   (11)   any other reasonable and applicable information which the City
Council may request;
   (12)   a demonstration of the applicant's technical ability to construct
and/or operate the proposed cable system, including identification of key
personnel and their qualifications;
   (13)   a demonstration of the applicant's legal qualifications to construct
and/or operate the proposed cable system, including but not limited to a
demonstration that the applicant meets the following criteria:
      a.   the applicant must not have had an application for an initial or
renewal franchise in the city lawfully denied within the three years preceding
the date its current application was submitted;
      b.   the applicant must not have had any cable television franchise
lawfully revoked by any franchising authority within three years preceding the
submission of the application;
      c.   the applicant must have the necessary authority under Texas law to
operate a cable system;
      d.   the applicant must have the necessary authority under federal law to
hold the franchise and operate a cable system. An applicant must have, or show
that it is qualified to obtain, any necessary federal franchises or waivers
required to operate the cable system proposed;
      e.   the applicant shall not have been convicted, at any time during the
ten years preceding the submission of the application, of any act or omission
of such character that the applicant cannot be relied upon to deal truthfully
with the city and the subscribers, or to substantially comply with its lawful
obligations under applicable law, including obligations under consumer
protection laws and laws prohibiting anticompetitive acts, fraud, racketeering,
or other similar conduct;
      f.   the applicant shall not have filed materially misleading information
in its application or have intentionally withheld information that the
applicant lawfully is required to provide; and
      g.   an elected official of the city shall not hold a controlling
interest in the applicant or an affiliate of the applicant.
      Not withstanding the foregoing, the city shall provide an opportunity to
an applicant to show that it would be inappropriate to deny it a franchise by
virtue of the particular circumstances surrounding the matter and the steps
taken by the applicant to cure all harms flowing therefrom and prevent their
recurrence, the lack of involvement of the applicant's principals, or the
remoteness of the matter from the operation of its cable systems.
   (14)   identification of the area of the city to be served by the proposed
cable system, including a description of the proposed franchise area's
boundaries;
   (15)   if the applicant proposes to provide cable service to an area already
served by an existing franchisee, the identification of the area where the
overbuild would occur and the ability of the public rights-of-way and other
property that would be used by the applicant to accommodate an additional cable
system; and
   (16)   an affidavit or declaration of an authorized officer of the applicant
certifying the truth and accuracy of the information in the application,
acknowledging the enforceability of application commitments, and certifying
that the application meets all federal and state law requirements.
(e)   Request for proposals, public comment, evaluating applications. Upon
filing, any franchise application and related documents are public records open
to inspection by the public during reasonable hours, including specifically the
regular business hours of the City Secretary.
   Before issuance of a request for proposals, the city shall maintain the
proposed request for proposals on the agenda of at least two City Council
meetings for the purpose of determining any special local needs or interest.
Any citizen of the city shall have the right to comment in writing, filed in
advance, or orally at any meeting at which the proposed request for proposals
is to be considered.
   Following reasonable notice to the public, any franchise application shall
be available for inspection for a period of at least twenty days prior to the
City Council taking action on the same. Any citizen of the city shall have the
right to comment in writing, filed in advance, or orally and in writing at any
meeting at which the franchise applications are to be considered.
   At its discretion, the City Council may refer any application for a
franchise to a city board or commission with appropriate jurisdiction to review
and make recommendations to City Council regarding the sufficiency of the
application and the applicant's qualifications.
   Before authorizing the negotiation of any such franchise agreement, the City
Council shall review the board or commission's recommendations and findings, if
any, the applicant's legal, financial and technical qualifications and the
adequacy and feasibility of the applicant's qualifications to operate a cable
television system within the city based upon information provided to the City
Council by the applicant and by other sources in writing or at any public
hearing or meeting of the City Council, and shall conduct at least one public
hearing thereon at a regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
   Thereafter, the City Council may in its discretion authorize the negotiation
of a franchise agreement with any applicant determined to be qualified. The
City Council may in its discretion refer the actual negotiation of any such
franchise to a board or commission, ad hoc or otherwise, to return a proposed
franchise agreement acceptable to the applicant and in the city's best interest
for final consideration by the City Council.
(f)   Awarding a franchise. After examining all applications submitted pursuant
to procedures to be established by the City Council designed to assure the
legal, financial and technical qualifications of an applicant to provide cable
service, and any franchise agreement negotiated between the city and any
approved applicant, the Council is authorized to grant a nonexclusive franchise
or franchises conveying the right to construct and operate a cable system
within the public ways of the city. A franchise may be awarded to an applicant
or applicants which in the Council's judgment will best serve the public
interest and whose construction and financial plans and arrangements are both
feasible and adequate to fulfill the conditions set forth in this article and
incorporated into any franchise granted. Any franchise agreement shall be
finally approved in conformance with the requirements of Section 12.02 of the
City Charter.
   No provision in this article shall be deemed or construed to require the
Council to grant a franchise following receipt of any franchise application.
(g)   Franchise term. The term of a franchise shall be for the number of years
negotiated in the franchise agreement with the city, not to exceed 25 years,
unless terminated earlier in accordance with this article, the franchise
agreement, or the City Charter.
(h)   Franchise fees. Grantee shall pay city five percent of gross revenue as a
franchise fee.
   The franchise fee shall be payable quarterly to the city. The grantee shall
file a complete, accurate, and verified statement listing each and every type
of revenue included in the gross revenue collected as a result of its doing
business within the city during the period for which said quarterly payment is
made. Such payment shall be made to the City Treasurer not later than 30 days
after the end of each calendar quarter and 60 days after the end of each
calendar year.
   City may examine all applicable records of the grantee to determine accuracy
of amounts payable to city.
   The city shall have the right to audit and to re-compute any amounts
determined to be payable under this article; provided, however, that (i) such
audit shall take place within 36 months following the close of each of the
grantee's fiscal years and (ii) if grantee has underpaid the franchise fee for
the audit period, the grantee shall pay the cost of the audit. Any additional
amount due to the city as a result of the audit shall be paid within 30 days
following written notice to the grantee by the city; said notice shall include
a copy of the audit report.
   In the event that any franchise fee payment or re-computed amount is not
made on or before the applicable dates heretofore specified, and following
notice by the city to a grantee, interest shall be charged daily from such date
at the annual rate equivalent to the then existing prime rate of the city's
depository bank plus two percent.
(i)   Grantee to be bound by terms and conditions of cable ordinance and
franchise agreement; procedure if conflict. No franchise shall be valid until
grantee enters into a franchise agreement having terms and conditions
acceptable to the city.
   In the event of a conflict between the franchise agreement and the
provisions of this article the provisions of this article shall prevail.
Failure to provide services as promised in grantee's franchise may be deemed a
breach of this article to which the provisions of Section 95-17 and Section 95-
18 of this article shall apply.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99; Ord. No. 3242, § 17, 8-28-03)
Sec. 95-4. Transfers and assignments.
(a)   Grantee shall offer city prior opportunity to purchase system. In the
event of a bonafide offer to purchase a grantee that is a publicly traded or
publicly held corporation, as a part of an overall sale of the parent grantee
or a separate sale of the grantee itself, whether by sale of stock, assets,
consolidation, merger, or other vehicle of transfer, the city shall have a
right of first refusal whereby the city shall have 60 days from the date of
receipt by the city of written notice of the pending sale (including a copy of
the offer itself and all relevant details thereto) in which to match said
bonafide offer of purchase (including that portion explicitly identified of any
offer to purchase the parent grantee as allocable only to the purchase of the
grantee), on the same terms and conditions as contained in the original offer.
In the event of a bonafide offer which proposes the transfer of the majority
voting interest in a grantee that is other than a publicly held corporation,
the city shall have 60 days from the date of receipt by the city of written
notice of the pending offer (including a copy of the offer itself and all
relevant details thereto) in which to match said bonafide offer on the same
terms and for the same price as the then tendered offer. Any offer of purchase
must be in writing and acceptable to the grantee to be considered bonafide.
(b)   Prior written consent of city required before any sale, assignment, or
transfer of a franchise. A franchise and any rights or obligations of the
grantee under the franchise shall not be sold, assigned, or transferred, either
in whole or in part, or leased or sublet in any manner, nor shall title
thereto, either legal or equitable, or any right, interest or tangible or
intangible property therein (tangible property being defined as more than 25
percent of the tangible property of the grantee located in the city either
cumulatively or at any one time), pass to or vest in any person without prior
written consent of the city as required in this chapter and Section 12.02 of
the City Charter, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(c)   Prior written consent of the city required before any transfer of
ownership or control of grantee. Ownership or control of grantee shall not be
transferred without the prior written consent of the city.
(d)   Grantee to submit application documenting information required by the
city. A grantee shall promptly notify the city of any action or proposed action
requiring consent of the city pursuant to Sections 95-4(b) through 95-4(n) of
this article.
   A grantee shall submit to the city an original application and four copies,
unless otherwise directed, which application shall fully describe the terms and
conditions of the action or proposed action subject to this section and clearly
state the basis on which the application should be approved. The application
shall also contain all documentation to support the showings required under
Sections 95-4(e) and 95-4(f).
   At any time during the review process, the city reserves the right to
require additional supporting documentation from a grantee or any other person
involved in the action or proposed action to support the showing required of
grantee under Sections 95-4(e) and 95-4(f). A grantee shall provide all
requested assistance to the city in connection with any such inquiry and, as
appropriate, shall secure the cooperation and assistance of all other persons
involved in such action.
   The city shall respond to any application requiring the city's consent under
Sections 95-4(b) through 95-4(n) within 120 days after such application, and
all information required by the city under this article, the grantee's
franchise agreement, and applicable law in connection with the application, has
been received by the city. The city may deny such an application on, among
other grounds, a grantee's failure to submit the information required by this
article, grantee's franchise agreement and applicable law.
(e)   Showings required of proposed assignee; assignee must agree to conditions
prescribed by city. A proposed assignee or transferee must demonstrate that it
possesses the legal, financial and technical qualifications necessary to
perform all the terms, conditions and obligations under the grantee's franchise
agreement for the remaining term thereof, and such reasonable additional
obligations required of the assignee or transferee by the city for the specific
and limited purpose of assuring the performance by the assignee or transferee
of all the terms, conditions and obligations of the franchise agreement, and,
in connection with this purpose, a proposed assignee or transferee must provide
the following information:
   (1)   Legal qualifications. The application shall identify the proposed
assignee or transferee and, if the proposed assignee or transferee is not a
natural person, each of its officers, directors or shareholders owning or
beneficially holding percent or more of its outstanding voting shares, general
partners and limited partners holding an equity interest in the proposed
assignee or transferee of five percent or more, and the respective percentage
share of each such identified officer, director, shareholder or general or
limited partner. The proposed assignee or transferee shall disclose any pending
administrative, legal, equitable or dispute resolution proceeding before, or
adverse final action taken during the past three years by any court,
administrative body or arbitrator with respect to the proposed assignee,
transferee or its officers, directors, or other persons having an equitable
interest in five percent or more of the voting stock of such transferee or
assignee in a civil, criminal, administrative or equitable proceeding brought
under the provisions of any law or regulation related to the following: any
felony; revocation, suspension or involuntary transfer of any authorization
(including cable franchises) to provide video programming or other
communication services; antitrust or unfair competition; fraudulent statements
to a governmental unit; material breach of a cable franchise agreement,
including but not limited to a material failure to provide PEG access channels,
facilities or equipment; or final rate regulation proceeding in which the
proposed rate was not sustained.
   (2)   Financial qualifications. The proposed assignee or transferee must
demonstrate that it has sufficient net liquid assets on hand or available from
committed resources to consummate the transaction and operate the grantee's
cable system for six months. The application for transfer shall include recent
financial statements, including audited financial statements if available, of
the proposed assignee or transferee prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, including balance sheets, income and expense
statements, capital expenditure statements and accompanying notes for the past
three years. Such statements, if not otherwise publicly available, may be
designated as confidential and shall be maintained as such by the city to the
extent permissible under state and local law.
   (3)   Technical qualifications. The application shall set forth a narrative
account of the proposed assignee's or transferee's technical qualifications,
experience and expertise regarding cable cystems. The narrative account shall
include, but not be limited to, a list of the cable systems currently and
formerly owned or operated by assignee or transferee within the past three
years; summary information concerning appropriate management personnel that
will be involved in the management and operation of the assignee's or
transferee's cable system; a list of any material violations of the technical
rules of the FCC or of federal, state or local governments, including but not
limited to violations of rules and regulations regarding signal quality, safety
and construction cited during the past three years by a franchising authority
or by local, state or federal governments involving currently or formally owned
or operated cable systems.
   (4)   Customer service. The assignee or transferee must submit to the city
(i) a reasonably detailed narrative describing, or a representative manual (if
such a manual exists) containing, assignee's or transferee's customer service
procedures; (ii) copies of at least two representative annual customer notices
provided by other systems owned or operated by assignee or transferee; (iii) a
summary of assignee's or transferee's proposed billing procedures; (iv) a
sample customer service bill which assignee or transferee proposes to use in
grantee's system, and (v) a copy of a sample customer service complaint log or
form, printed out from an electronic or computerized complaint recording
system, which assignee or transferee proposes to use in grantee's system.
   (5)   Compliance with franchise agreement and cable ordinance. The proposed
assignee or transferee must agree to comply with all provisions of the
grantee's franchise agreement and the cable ordinance, as well as such
reasonable additional terms and conditions as the city may require for the
specific and limited purpose of assuring the proposed assignee's or
transferee's compliance with such provisions, including without limitation such
additional terms and conditions as the city may require to remedy or avoid the
recurrence of any past violations of the terms of a franchise or of federal,
state or local laws in the operation of grantee's, assignee's or transferee's
cable system or service.
(f)   Grantee and assignee or transferee to assist city in its inquiry of
prospective controlling party; grantee promptly to notify city of any actual or
prospective change in control of franchise.
   (1)   Grantee's responsibility. A grantee shall assist the city in its
inquiry into an assignee's or transferee's capabilities under Section 95-4(e).
   (2)   Assignee's or transferee's responsibility. In seeking the city's
consent to any change in ownership or control of a franchise, a grantee,
assignee or transferee shall have the responsibility to establish, to the
satisfaction of city, that assignee or transferee has all of the legal,
financial, and technical qualifications necessary to perform all of the terms,
conditions and obligations of the grantee under its franchise agreement for the
remaining term thereof. The city may request, and assignee or transferee shall
provide, all reasonable financial data relative to the transfer, including but
not limited to the materials specified in Section 95-4(e) of this article. In
addition, assignee or transferee shall provide to the city the terms and
conditions of the sale, credit agreements, partnership agreements and any other
information reasonably related to the assignee's or transferee's acquisition of
the grantee's franchise which is needed to clarify the change in ownership.
(g)   Transfer of control occurs with change of ten percent of voting interest
or of person exercising management authority over grantee. For purposes of this
Section 95-4, "control" means the ability to exert working control, in whatever
manner exercised, over the affairs of a grantee, either directly or indirectly.
   A rebuttable presumption that transfer of control has occurred, including of
control in fact (i.e. transfer of de facto control), shall arise upon the
acquisition or accumulation by any person, or group of persons, of 10 percent
of the voting interest of a publicly held grantee, or of 25 percent of the
voting interest of a privately held grantee or of the person exercising
management authority over such a privately held grantee (unless 51 percent of
the voting interest of a privately held corporation continues to be owned by
the same ownership).
(h)   Transfer or assignment without prior consent deemed to be material
breach, and may be subject to liquidated damages. Any transfer or assignment of
a franchise or of ownership or control of grantee without the prior consent of
the city shall be null and void unless later ratified by the city and shall:
(i) be deemed a material breach of a franchise agreement and (ii) among and/or
in addition to other remedies available to the city, be subject to a liquidated
damages assessment, on a daily basis, until the transfer or assignment is
approved, or if not approved, until the prior ownership, control or other
status quo is restored to a condition satisfactory to the city.
(i)   City may revoke franchise if unauthorized transfer or assignment occurs.
If the city fails to approve or denies its consent to any such transfer or
assignment of a franchise or of the ownership or control of a grantee and such
action has nevertheless been effected, the city may revoke a franchise and
terminate a franchise agreement unless control of the grantee or the system is
promptly restored to its status prior to such unauthorized action or to a
status acceptable to the city.
(j)   Consent of city to transfer or assignment shall not constitute waiver of
city rights. The consent or approval of the City Council to any transfer or
assignment of a franchise or of ownership or control of a franchise shall not
constitute a waiver or release of any of the rights of the city unless the city
specifically releases or waives such rights.
(k)   No transfer or assignment to be approved within three years or prior to
completion of grant, construction or acquisition.In the absence of compelling
circumstances, the City Council will not approve any transfer of control of a
grantee or assignment of a franchise or cable system within three years of its
initial grant or construction or acquisition, respectively. The following
transactions, assignments or transfers are exempt from this section: (i) a tax-
free reorganization under the Internal Revenue Code; (ii) an assignment or
transfer of control of a cable system which is required by law or by any act,
order or decree of any federal agency or any state or political subdivision and
which does not also require the prior consent of the city; (iii) an assignment
or transfer of control to one or more purchasers, assignees or transferees
controlled by, controlling or under control with, the seller, assignor or
transferor; or (iv) an assignment of a franchise or transfer of control of a
grantee, which assignment or transfer has otherwise been approved by the city,
in which the franchise was renewed less than three years prior to the proposed
date of such assignment or transfer, provided that the grantee has continuously
operated such a cable system under the franchise and any prior franchises for a
period of at least three years prior to such an assignment or transfer.
(l)   Grantee must notify city of any agreement to transfer or assign cable
system and terms of sale. A grantee must notify the city whenever it reaches a
definitive written agreement to sell, transfer or assign its cable system, or
any portion thereof. A grantee must also notify the city of the terms and
conditions of any proposed sale as required by Section 95-4(f).
(m)   Successor-in-interest must become signatory to an agreement. In no event
shall an assignment of a franchise or a transfer of ownership or control be
approved without the successor-in-interest becoming a signatory to the existing
franchise agreement.
(n)   Grantee not to enter into any management contract if it results in a
change of control. A grantee shall not enter into any management contract or
other arrangement for the management of the system, to the extent that such
contract or other arrangement would result in a significant change of
operational control of a grantee or the system (as defined in Section 95-4(g)),
without the prior consent of the city.
(o)   Processing fee may be imposed by city. The city may impose a processing
fee upon the grantee and/or the assignee or transferee to cover its costs of
considering and evaluating an application for assignment or transfer of a
franchise.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-5. Liability and indemnification.
(a)   Indemnification of the city. The grantee shall save the city and its
agents and employees harmless from and against all claims, damages, losses, and
expenses, including attorney's fees sustained by the city on account of any
suit, judgment, execution, claim or demand whatsoever arising out of but not
limited to copyright infringements and all other damages arising out of the
installation, operation, maintenance, or reconstruction of the cable television
system authorized in a franchise agreement.
(b)   Reimbursement of costs. A grantee shall pay all expenses incurred by the
city defending itself with regard to all damages and penalties mentioned in
Section 95-5(a) above.
(c)   Public liability insurance. A grantee shall maintain throughout the term
of the franchise or any renewal or extension thereof, a general comprehensive
liability insurance policy issued by an insurer with an A- or better rating of
insurance in Best's Key Rating Guide, Property/Casualty Edition, authorized to
do business in the State of Texas, naming as the additional insured the city,
its officers, boards, commissions, agents and employees, in a form satisfactory
to the City Attorney protecting the city and all persons against liability for
loss or damage for personal injury, death or property damage, occasioned by the
operations of the grantee under any franchise granted hereinafter, in the
amounts of (i) $500,000.00 for bodily injury or death to any one person, within
the limit, however, of $1,000,000.00 for bodily injury or death resulting from
any one accident, (ii) $250,000.00 for property damage resulting from any one
accident, and (iii) workers compensation insurance in compliance with all
workers compensation insurance and safety laws of the State of Texas, and
amendments thereto.
(d)   Notice of cancellation or reduction of coverage. The insurance policies
mentioned above shall state that the policies are extended to cover the
liability assumed by the grantee under the terms of any franchise agreement and
shall contain the following endorsement:
   "It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor
the amount of coverage thereof reduced until 30 days after receipt by the city
by registered mail of written notice of such intent to cancel or reduce the
coverage."
(e)   Evidence of insurance filed with the city. All policies of insurance or
certificates of insurance with a notice of cancellation provision shall be
filed and maintained with the city during the term of this franchise or any
renewal thereof.
(f)   No waiver of insurance, construction bond or letter of credit. Recovery
by the city of any amounts under insurance, the construction bond (Section 95-5
(g)) or letter of credit (Section 95-16), or otherwise does not limit a
grantee's duty to indemnify the city in any way; nor shall such recovery
relieve a grantee of its obligations under a franchise, limit the amounts owed
to the city, or in any respect prevent the city from exercising any other right
or remedy it may have.
(g)   Construction bond. Prior to any cable system construction, upgrade, or
other work in the public rights-of-way, a grantee shall establish in the city's
favor a performance bond in an amount specified in a franchise agreement or
other authorization as necessary to ensure the grantee's faithful performance
of the construction, upgrade, or other work.
   In the event a grantee subject to such a performance bond fails to complete
the cable system construction, upgrade, or other work in the public rights-of-
way in a safe, timely, and competent manner in accord with the provisions of a
franchise agreement, there shall be recoverable, jointly and severally from the
principal and surety of the bond, any damages or loss suffered by the city as a
result, including the full amount of any compensation, indemnification, or cost
of removal or abandonment of any property of the grantee, or the cost of
completing or repairing the cable system construction, upgrade, or other work
in the public rights-of-way, plus a reasonable allowance for attorney's fees,
up to the full amount of the bond. The city may also recover against the bond
any amount recoverable against the letter of credit where such amount exceeds
that available under the letter of credit.
   Upon completion of the cable system construction, upgrade, or other work in
the public rights-of-way and payment of all construction obligations of the
cable system to the satisfaction of the city, the city may eliminate the bond
or reduce its amount after a time appropriate to determine whether the work
performed was satisfactory, which time shall be established considering the
nature of the work performed. The city may subsequently require a new bond or
an increase in the bond amount for any subsequent construction, upgrade, or
other work in the public rights-of-way.
   The performance bond shall be issued by a surety with an A- or better rating
of insurance in Best's Key Rating Guide, Property/Casualty Edition and shall be
subject to the prior approval of the city.
   The construction bond shall contain the following endorsement:
   "It is hereby understood and agreed that this bond may not be canceled by
the surety nor the intention not to renew be stated by the surety until 60 days
after receipt by the city, by registered mail, of written notice of such intent
to cancel or not to renew."
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-6. Cable system construction.
(a)   Map and plan to be provided. Grantee shall submit to the city a
construction or reconstruction plan not less than 90 days prior to the date
grantee intends to commence construction or reconstruction of the cable system,
and that plan shall be incorporated by reference and made a part of the
grantee's franchise agreement. The plan shall include a map of the entire
franchise area and shall clearly delineate the following:
   (1)   Areas within the franchise area where the cable system will be
available to subscribers, including a time schedule of construction or
reconstruction for each year that construction or reconstruction is proposed;
and
   (2)   Areas within the franchise area where the cable system cannot
reasonably be extended due to lack of present or planned development or other
similar reasons, with the areas and the reasons for not serving them clearly
identified on the map.
   The grantee shall also make available to the city during normal business
hours at grantee's office cable system design details, equipment
specifications, and design performance criteria.
(b)   Delay in system construction or reconstruction requires consent by City
Council. Any delay in the cable system construction or reconstruction beyond
the times specified in the plan shall require application to the city and
consent of the City Council after receiving recommendation from the City
Manager. Any delay beyond the construction or reconstruction timetable set
forth in the plan, unless approved by the City Council, will be considered a
violation of the franchise for which the provisions of Sections 95-5(g) and 95-
16 shall apply. However, nothing in this section shall prevent a grantee from
constructing or reconstructing the cable system earlier than planned.
(c)   System construction and operation to be consistent with city
requirements; the city to observe annual proof of performance tests; the city
may conduct independent tests at cost of grantee Grantee shall construct,
install, operate and maintain its system in a manner such that it operates at
all times consistent with all laws, ordinances, and construction standards of
the city; the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission;
and detailed standards submitted by a grantee as part of its application, which
standards shall be incorporated by reference into a franchise agreement. In
addition, a grantee shall provide the city with the opportunity to observe the
conduct of, and receive a written report of the results of grantee's proof of
performance tests. The city may conduct independent measurements of the system.
A grantee shall pay the costs incurred by the city for any technical assistance
deemed reasonably necessary by the city for obtaining independent verification
of technical compliance with all standards.
(d)   Additional specifications - Standby power, national, state and local
codes. Grantee shall construct, install and maintain the cable system in an
orderly and professional manner, using due diligence and materials of good and
durable quality. All cables and wires shall be installed, where possible,
parallel with and in the same manner as electric and telephone lines. Multiple
cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel and bundled with due respect
for engineering considerations. Underground installations shall be in
conformance with all applicable codes.
   A grantee shall maintain equipment capable of providing standby power to be
engaged automatically in the event of a power failure for 24 hours at all
headend, tower, and HVAC systems and for a minimum of two hours at all trunk
and distribution amplifiers, or fiber optic nodes.
   A grantee shall at all times comply with applicable sections of the
following, all as from time to time amended and revised, and all other
applicable rules and regulations now in effect or hereinafter adopted by the
city:
   (1)   National Electrical Safety Code (ANSI) most recently adopted:
   (2)   National Electrical Code (National Bureau of Fire Underwriters);
   (3)   the rules and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission;
   (4)   the city building code;
   (5)   city subdivision regulations;
   (6)   the city road standards.
   In any event, the grantee shall not endanger or interfere with the safety of
persons or property in the franchise area or other areas where a grantee may
have equipment located.
(e)   Access to grantee's trenches by other utilities. Grantee shall cooperate
in the planning, locating and construction of its cable system in utility joint
trenches or common duct banks with other telecommunications providers. The city
will provide advance notice to any grantee when it plans to open a trench and
each grantee shall provide notice to the city when it plans to open a trench.
The grantee and the city will offer to make space available to the other, and
to other persons who participate in joint trenching, on reasonable terms and
conditions.
(f)   If city determines any part of facilities are harmful to health and
safety of any person, grantee shall promptly correct. If, at any time, it is
determined by the city or any other agency or authority of competent
jurisdiction that any part of the system facilities are endangering the public,
including without limitation missing vault or pedestal covers, temporary drop
cables that cross walkways, driveways or other areas, and low cables, riser
problems and other violations of state or local laws that are harmful to the
health or safety of any person, then a grantee shall correct all such
conditions, at its own costs and expense, within 24 hours of receipt of notice
from the city or any other agency or authority of competent jurisdiction. Until
such conditions are corrected, grantee shall post suitable warnings to ensure
that the health and safety of persons possibly affected is ensured.
(g)   Grantee to maintain system in conformance with FCC radiation rules. A
grantee shall construct, operate and maintain the system in conformance with
FCC Signal Leakage Requirements, 47 C.F.R. 76 subpart K, to prevent
interference with the transmission or reception of over-the-air broadcast
signals. A grantee shall not interfere with the ability of any subscriber to
utilize his or her television receiver for any lawful purpose. The connection
of any cable input selector device or any converter to a subscriber's terminal
shall not be considered as interference with the subscriber's ability to
utilize his or her television receiver.
(h)   Grantee to take all necessary steps to prevent accidents. A grantee
shall, at its own cost and expense, take all necessary efforts to prevent
accidents at its work sites, including the placing and maintenance of proper
guards, fences, barricades, and security personnel and, at night, suitable and
sufficient lighting.
(i)   Notice of cable construction/repair to subscribers. Grantee shall notify
residents on affected streets of pending construction, or major repairs
including any which require street or sidewalk trenching, at least 48 hours
prior to commencement of such work. Notification shall be by leaving an
appropriate notice at the residence (i.e. door hanger notice) and by first-
class mail. In the event of a system extension or rebuild, possibly affecting
general system reception, a grantee shall notify all of its subscribers by
first-class mail, stating the scope and duration of the proposed extension or
rebuild and its impacts at least 14 days prior to commencement of such work,
with a follow-up door hanger notice also being placed at subscribers'
residences no later than 48 hours prior to the commencement of the extension or
rebuild work.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-7. Regulations pertaining to use of city streets and public rights-of-
way.
(a)   The city has the right use poles and conduits owned by grantee. The city
shall have the right to install and maintain free of charge upon any poles or
in any conduit owned by a grantee any wire and pole fixtures that do not
unreasonably interfere with the grantee's own use of the poles and conduits.
Grantee shall notify the city when it enters into an agreement for use of its
poles and conduits. Copies of agreements for use of grantee's conduits or poles
in the public rights-of-way or on other public property shall be available for
review upon the city's request.
(b)   All grantee's facilities to be installed in or under streets to be
installed only at locations approved by City Manager or his/or her designee.
Any poles, wires, cable lines, conduits or other properties of a grantee to be
constructed or installed in or under streets shall be so constructed or
installed only at such locations and in such manner as shall be approved in
writing by the City Manager or his/or her designee in the exercise of his/or
her reasonable discretion; provided, however, that verbal approval by the city
shall be acceptable in the event of an emergency situation.
(c)   During construction, reconstruction or maintenance of system grantee
shall not obstruct public ways without prior consent of authorities. In
connection with the construction, reconstruction, operation, maintenance,
repair, or removal of the system, a grantee shall give due regard to the
aesthetics of the franchise areas and shall not obstruct the public ways,
streets, railways, passenger travel, or other traffic to, from or within the
city, without prior consent of the appropriate city authorities. In addition:
   (1)   All transmission and distribution structures, lines, and equipment
erected by a grantee within the city shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin any streets or public way.
   (2)   In case of any disturbance to any public way, street, easement, paved
area or other property, a grantee at its own cost and expense and in a manner
and time period approved by the city, shall replace and restore such public
rights-of-way in as good condition as before the work involving such
disturbance was done.
(d)   Permits required to be obtained prior to any physical work being
performed in city's streets. A grantee or its authorized contractors must
obtain all permits required by city ordinance prior to any physical work being
performed in the city's streets, or on city-owned property. Permits will be
issued to a grantee or its contractors only on approved plans by approved
contractors, which plans must be submitted concurrently with or prior to the
request for the construction permit. All work will be done in accordance with
the city's specifications and must comply with all applicable law.
(e)   Grantee to prepare maps of entire system prior to issuance of permit for
or initiation of construction or reconstruction. Maps to be filed with affected
utility companies. A grantee shall cause maps of the entire cable system to be
filed in the office of the City Manager or his/or her designee prior to the
issuance of a permit for or the initiation of construction or reconstruction.
Prior to beginning the installation of any facility or apparatus in accordance
with the provisions of this section, a grantee shall file maps with all utility
companies and public agencies whose facilities are affected by such
installation.
(f)   Upon undergrounding of utility lines, grantee shall concurrently place
lines underground in conduits at depth approved by City Manager or his/or her
designee. Trunk, feeder and drop cable may be constructed overhead where poles
now exist and electrical or telephone lines or both are now overhead, but where
electrical or telephone lines are now underground, all trunk, feeder and drop
cable shall be constructed underground at such depths and locations as shall be
approved by the City Manager or his/or her designee. Whenever and wherever
electrical lines and telephone lines are moved from overhead to underground
placement in an area, all cable system facilities and plant in that area shall
be similarly and concurrently moved underground by the grantee at the grantee's
sole cost and expense at such depths and locations as shall be approved by the
City Manager or his/or her designee.
(g)   Grantee may be required to move its facilities to accommodate changes in
public improvements. A grantee shall from time to time protect, support,
temporarily dislocate, or temporarily or permanently, as may be required,
remove or relocate, without expense to the city or any other governmental
entity, any facilities installed, used, or maintained under a franchise, if and
when made necessary by any lawful change of grade, alignment, or width of any
public street by the city or any other governmental entity, or made necessary
by any other public improvement or alteration in, under, on, upon or about any
public street or other public property, whether such public improvement or
alteration is at the instance of the city or another governmental entity, and
whether such improvement or alteration is for a governmental or proprietary
function, or made necessary by traffic conditions, public safety, street
vacation or any other public project or purpose of the city or any other
governmental entity. The decision of the City Manager or his/or her designee
under this section, absent review by the City Council, shall be final and
binding on a grantee.
(h)   Grantee shall obtain prior approval before altering any municipal
facility; alterations to be at cost of grantee.In connection with the
construction, operation, maintenance, repair, or removal of the system, a
grantee shall, at its own cost and expense, protect any and all existing
structures belonging to the city or other users of right-of-way. A grantee
shall obtain the prior approval of the city before altering any water main,
sewage or drainage system, or any other structure in any public way or street,
because of the presence of the system in the public ways or streets. Any such
alteration shall be made by a grantee, at its sole cost and expense, and in a
manner reasonably prescribed by the city. A grantee shall also be liable, at
its own cost and expense, to replace or repair and restore to as close to its
prior condition as is reasonably possible and in a manner reasonably specified
by the city, any public way, street or any structure involved in the
construction of the system that may become disturbed or damaged as a result of
any work thereon by or on behalf of the grantee.
(i)   Grantee shall temporarily move its wires to permit moving of building.
Grantee shall, at the request of any person holding a moving permit issued by
the city, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the moving of
buildings. The expense of such temporary removal or raising or lowering of
wires shall be paid to the grantee by the person requesting the same, and
grantee shall have the authority to require such payment in advance. Grantee
shall be given not less than seven days notice to arrange for such temporary
wire changes.
(j)   Grantee shall repair and restore damage to city facilities and shall
maintain restoration. In the event that a grantee during construction,
installation, inspection or repair of its facilities causes damage to pavement,
sidewalks, driveways, landscaping or other property, the grantee or the
authorized agent shall, at its own expense and in a manner approved by the
city, replace and restore such places to the same condition which existed
before said work was commenced. The grantee shall further continue to maintain
all such restoration in the condition approved by the city.
(k)   Failure by grantee to complete required work in any street can result in
city causing work to be done at expense of grantee. Upon failure of the grantee
to complete any work required by law, or by the provisions of a franchise, to
be done in any street or other public place, within ten days following due
notice and to the satisfaction of the City Manager or his/or her designee, the
city may, at its option, cause such work to be done and a grantee shall pay to
the city the cost thereof in the itemized amounts reported by the City Manager
or his/or her designee to the grantee within ten days after receipt of such
itemized report. Or, at city's option, city may demand of grantee the estimated
cost of such work as estimated by the City Manager or his/or her designee, and
such shall be paid by grantee to city within ten days of such demand; upon
award of any contract or contracts for such work, grantee shall pay to city
within ten days of demand any additional amount necessary to provide for cost
of such work. Upon completion of such work, grantee shall pay to city or city
shall refund to grantee such sums so that the total received and retained by
city shall equal the cost of such work. Cost as used herein shall include 15
percent for city's overhead expense.
(l)   City may remove grantee's facilities as may be required during
emergencies. The city reserves the right to remove any portion of a grantee's
equipment and facilities as may be required in any emergency as determined by
the city without liability for interruption of cable service and the city shall
not be obligated to restore cable service or to pay the costs of expenses of
restoring cable service.
(m)   Cost of tree trimming is to be at expense of grantee.A grantee shall
notify the city regarding the need to trim trees upon and overhanging streets
of the city so as to prevent the branches of such trees from coming in contact
with the wires and cables of the grantee; such trimming shall be done by the
grantee under the city's supervision and direction if the city so desires and
at no expense to the city. When authorized, such trimming shall be limited to
the area required for clear cable passage and shall not include major
structural branches which materially alter the appearance and natural growth
habits of the tree. The grantee shall be responsible for any and all damages to
any tree as a result of trimming, or to the land surrounding any tree, whether
such tree is trimmed or removed, or for damage to property or person caused by
such trimming and removal of any tree.
(n)   Grantee shall remove system from any public street following termination
or expiration of franchise. In the event that the use of a part of the cable
system is discontinued for any reason for a continuous period of 12 months, or
in the event such cable system or property has been installed in any street or
public place without complying with the requirements of the franchise, or the
franchise has been terminated, canceled or has expired without renewal, a
grantee shall promptly, at its own expense, and upon being given ten days
notice from the City Manager or his/or her designee, remove from the streets or
public places all such property and poles of such cable system other than any
which the City Manager or his/or her designee may permit to be abandoned in
place. In the event of such removal, a grantee shall promptly restore the
street or other area from which such property has been removed to a condition
satisfactory to the City Manager or his/or her designee.
(o)   Grantee's property may be considered abandoned 30 days after termination
or expiration of franchise. Any property of a grantee remaining in place 30
days after the termination or expiration of a franchise shall be, at the option
of the City Council, considered permanently abandoned. The City Manager or his/
or her designee may extend such time not to exceed an additional 30 days.
(p)   Abandonment in place shall be done at direction of department of public
works: ownership of property shall be transferred to city. Any property of a
grantee permitted to be abandoned in place shall be abandoned in such a manner
as the department of public works shall prescribe. Upon permanent abandonment
of the property of a grantee in place, the grantee shall submit to the city an
instrument in writing, to be approved by the City Attorney transferring to the
city the ownership of such property. If such an instrument is not received
within 30 days of the abandonment, the property shall automatically become that
of the city.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-8. System operation.
(a)   Type and scope of system. A grantee shall install and maintain the system
as proposed and agreed upon in the franchise agreement.
(b)   Basic service tier. Each grantee of a cable system shall provide its
subscribers a separately available basic service tier to which subscription is
required for access to any other tier of service.
(c)   Access channels. A grantee shall provide and maintain the number and type
of access channels as are set forth in the franchise agreement.
(d)   Supervision and regulation of franchises by the city. The city may do all
things necessary and proper to supervise, inspect, and regulate the
construction and operation of cable television systems franchised under this
article; implement complaint procedures; regulate rates as authorized by
federal, state, and local laws; monitor and enforce compliance with this
article and any cable television franchise granted by the city.
A grantee shall not include in the programming or services it offers
subscribers any program or service which is not protected by the first
amendment to the U.S. Constitution.
(e)   Grantee to maintain an office or service center in city limits. A grantee
shall maintain a business office or service center within the city limits,
which shall be open during the business hours stated in the consumer services
standards of Section 95-9, and staffed and operated to respond to customers in
at least four ways: accept payments and resolve billing difficulties; to give
out and exchange or accept return of converters; schedule and conduct service
or technician calls; answer subscriber inquiries; and resolve complaints.
Subscribers shall be promptly notified of any change of address of such office
or of telephone number(s). Grantee shall also prepare a promotional notice to
familiarize residents with the location of said office, the services available,
and complaint procedures. This notice is to be given to each new subscriber
upon installation of service, and is to be distributed at least once per year
to all subscribers.
(f)   Repair and maintenance crew to be maintained that is capable of
responding to subscriber complaints. Grantee shall maintain sufficient repair
and maintenance crews capable of responding to subscriber complaints or
requests for service in accordance with customer service standards described in
Section 95-9.
(g)   Outage log to be maintained showing details of service failures. A
grantee shall maintain an outage log showing the date, approximate time,
location, duration, number of subscribers affected, type and probable cause of
all headend, trunk, or distribution line service failures due to causes other
than routine testing or maintenance at reasonable times. A copy of such log
showing the "availability criteria" (below) shall be filed with the City
Manager of the city on a quarterly basis and shall be retained by a grantee for
a period of three years.
   The grantee will design, procure, install and maintain its equipment with
the objective of meeting a monthly system availability criteria of 99.5 percent
measured as follows:
 
100 -.5 = Power On -Outage Time 
 
   "Power on" is defined as the total number of customer minutes per month.
   "Outage time" is defined as the duration in minutes of any outage multiplied
by the number of customers affected by the outage and accumulated for all
outages occurring during the month.
(h)   Planned service interruption. A grantee may intentionally interrupt
service on the cable system only for good cause and for the shortest time
possible and, except in emergency situations or to the extent necessary to
correct the affected subscribers' service problems, only after a minimum of 48
hours prior notice to subscribers and the city of the anticipated service
interruption; provided, however, that planned maintenance that does not require
more than two hours' interruption of service shall not require such notice.
(i)   The city can require testing of system and report on system performance.
When there have been repeated complaints made or when there exists other
evidence which, in the judgment of the city, casts doubt on the reliability or
quality of cable service, the city shall have the right and authority to compel
a grantee to test, analyze, and report on the performance of the cable system.
Such report shall be delivered to the city no later than 14 days after the city
formally notifies the grantee and shall include the following information: the
nature of the complaints which precipitated the special test(s); which cable
system component(s) was/were tested; the equipment used, and procedure(s)
employed in said testing; the results of such test(s); and the methods(s) in
which said complaints were resolved. Where the grantee's response or tests do
not resolve the problem, the City Manager of the city may require that tests
and analyses shall be supervised by a qualified engineer selected by the city
who is not on the permanent staff of a grantee. Said tests shall be paid for by
the grantee within 20 days after the city submits the engineer's invoice. The
aforesaid engineer shall sign all records of the special tests and forward to
the City Manager such records with a report interpreting the results of the
tests and recommending actions to be taken by the grantee and the city.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-9. Customer service standards.
(a)   Definitions.
   (1)   Normal business hours means those hours during which most similar
businesses in the community are open to serve customers.
   (2)   Normal operating conditions means those service conditions which are
within the control of the cable operator. Those conditions which are not within
the control of the cable operator include, but are not limited to, natural
disasters, civil disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and
severe or unusual weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily
within the control of the cable operator include, but are not limited to,
special promotions, pay-per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or
seasonal demand periods, and maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
   (3)   Service interruption means the loss of picture or sound on one or more
cable channels.
(b)   Exceptions. Nothing in this article is intended to prevent or prohibit:
   (1)   the city and a grantee from agreeing to customer service requirements
that exceed the standards set forth in this article.
   (2)   the city from enacting or enforcing any consumer protection law; or
   (3)   the establishment or enforcement of any ordinance or regulation
concerning customer service that imposes customer service requirements that
exceed or address matters not addressed by the standards set forth in this
article.
(c)   Customer service standards. A grantee is subject to the following
customer service standards, which are to be certified quarterly as to
compliance by the grantee to the city.
   (1)   The grantee shall conform to minimum standards as shall be established
by the city for telephone access, repair service response, timeliness of
installation work, and work order scheduling. Telephone access for service
complaints must be improved to an initial minimum standard which meets the
guidelines of the Federal Communications Commission.
   (2)   The grantee shall, at least 90 percent of the time, connect a
telephone caller to a live service representative staff member or operator
within 30 seconds, 24 hours per day, seven days a week. Busy conditions shall
not be encountered by subscribers attempting to make contact with the grantee
more frequently than 3 percent of the time.
   (3)   The grantee's local office shall be open for business at least eight
hours per day five days a week.
   (4)   The grantee shall provide repair response such that a technician shall
respond immediately, regardless of the time of day or day of the week, to any
report of an outage of any channel from any group of subscribers numbering at
least three who live in the same general area. All other service quality
impairment reports of any type shall receive a response within 24 hours,
regardless of the time of day or day of the week the reports are received.
   (5)   In the event of unusual circumstances beyond the subscriber's control,
or in accordance with FCC regulations, subscribers shall be given the schedule
option of weekday, evening or Saturday appointments for all work that requires
an in-home visit by grantee personnel. In accordance with current FCC customer
service guidelines, four hour or smaller appointment windows shall be offered.
Between the time a new customer is signed up for service and the time service
is installed, the customer shall be afforded a right of rescission. All
reconnects, service upgrades or downgrades shall be done within four business
days of the date the order is placed by the customer; new installations in
underground service areas shall be done within seven business days. The
installation completion objective shall be met at least 95 percent of the time
as measured on a quarterly basis. Drop wires in underground service areas that
are temporarily placed above ground shall be buried as soon as practicable.
   (6)   Upon request, grantee shall provide a subscriber with a credit or
rebate to the subscriber's account for a service outage caused by a failure of
the cable system. System failures caused by conditions which were not the fault
or under the control of the grantee (as set out in Section 95-9(a)(2) herein)
are not subject to a rebate or credit by grantee except as stated below. In any
given month, for an outage caused by a cable system failure of more than four
hours duration, but less than 24 hours duration, a subscriber shall receive a
rebate of one day's service credited to the subscriber's monthly cable bill for
that period. In any given month, for an outage of 24 hours or more, the rebate
to the subscriber's monthly cable bill for that period shall be calculated on a
pro rata basis based on the number of days of the outage rounded up to the next
day. All service standards shall be clearly stated in the customer's service
brochure which is provided to each subscriber.
   (7)   Consistent with the requirements of the Federal Communications
Commission, and as required under this article, the grantee shall continue to
provide an informational packet to all of its new subscribers at the time they
are first connected to the system. This information shall include as a minimum
a full and complete listing of all products and services offered, channel
positions of programming carried on the system, rates and prices, and options
for programing services and conditions of subscription to programming and other
services (including all available discounts, such as those that apply to senior
citizens). The brochure shall also include a statement of the grantee's various
operating policies, including those that relate to installation and service
maintenance policies, parental control features, consumer privacy rights, and
late charge assessments. The brochure shall incorporate instructions as to how
to contact the grantee for service and what to do if problems cannot be
resolved in direct dealing with the first level of service personnel. The
brochure shall also present subscribers with instructions on how to connect
VCRs and other such devices as part of the cable installation. In addition to
providing such material to new subscribers, current subscribers shall be
provided a copy of all information required to be placed in the customer
service brochure at least once a year on a routine basis.
   (8)   Subscriber bills shall clearly itemize all charges as well as all
applicable discounts.
(d)   Customer service statistics and reporting.
   (1)   The grantee shall be required to continue to keep and provide to the
city when requested statistical information regarding telephone activity
records. In addition, the grantee shall also provide upon request summary
outage reports. The form or format of such reports shall be as mutually agreed
between the parties.
   (2)   Upon request by the city, grantee shall be required to prepare and
submit quarterly summary reports that track 30 second time-to-answer
performance statistics, trunk-busy conditions, and average hold times.
   (3)   The grantee shall be required to install and upgrade its internal
telephone system to a capability comparable to a similar system maintained by
the upper 25 percentile of comparable systems in the states of Texas, Oklahoma,
Arkansas and Louisiana. To determine the comparability of systems, benchmark
cities will be selected annually from these four states solely on the basis of
a population equal to the population of the city of Longview, plus or minus 25
percent. A list of the benchmark cities shall be provided by grantee to city
annually, and the status of grantee's system must equal or exceed the upper 25
percent of the other cities' systems. In addition, the grantee shall provide
the city with a 24 hour emergency telephone number at which a designated (not
voice mail or a recording) responsible adult representative of grantee can be
accessed in the event of an emergency.
   (4)   The city shall continue to have the right to routinely verify the
correctness of the franchise fee and other payment by requiring the grantee to
provide an annual audited financial statement in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, including such supplemental information or
schedules as the city shall require to verify the franchise fee.
   (5)   The city shall have access to the plant and to the grantee's plan and
documents so as to be able to verify that the work of upgrading the system is
being done according to the terms of the agreement and in accordance with the
schedule.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-10. Parental control.
(1)   The grantee shall be required to provide a parental control option to all
subscribers, at the lowest reasonable cost, by the use of cable-ready sets,
converters, addressable converters, or other similar or appropriate equipment.
(2)   The availability of optional parental control equipment shall be clearly
stated in the customer service brochure provided to all new customers and
annually provided to current customers.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-11. Customer billing.
(1)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming services,
or channel positions as soon as possible through announcements on the cable
system and in writing in accordance with FCC regulations. Notice must be given
to subscribers a minimum of 30 days in advance of such changes if the change is
within the control of the cable operator. In addition, the grantee shall notify
subscribers at least 30 days in advance of any significant changes in other
information required to be disclosed to subscribers.
(2)   Bills shall be clear, concise, and understandable. Bills must be fully
itemized with itemizations including, but not being limited to, basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills shall clearly delineate
all activity during the billing period, including operational charges, rebates,
and credits. In case of a billing dispute, a grantee must respond to a written
complaint from a subscriber within ten days.
(3)   Refund checks shall be issued promptly, but not later than:
   the customer's next billing cycle following resolution of the request if
possible, but in any instance, no later than within 30 days; or
   upon the return of the equipment supplied by the cable operator if service
is terminated.
(4)   Credits will be issued no later than the customer's next billing cycle
following the determination that a credit is warranted.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-12. Enforcement of customer service standards.
(a)   Reports required of compliance and enforcement of customer service
standards. A grantee shall report to the city on a quarterly basis regarding
its compliance with customer service standards (report shall include
information not already included in response to Section 95-12(b)). A report
form shall be developed in consultation between the city and a grantee that
will provide the detail necessary to monitor grantee's compliance with customer
service standards. Upon breach of the customer service standards and failure of
a grantee to remedy such breach upon 10 days prior written notice from the
city, the city may invoke the penalty provisions of this section or the
liquidated damages provision of the franchise agreement without prejudice to
any other remedy otherwise available to the city. A grantee shall also promptly
comply with all procedures established by the city regarding the handling of
all complaints received directly by the city from city residents regarding
cable television service.
   (1)   A grantee shall file with the city on a quarterly basis a notarized
statement signed under oath by an officer or local system manager certifying
compliance with these customer service standards.
   (2)   Failing to file a certificate shall subject a grantee to pay a civil
forfeiture to the city of $50.00 per day.
   (3)   A grantee in non-compliance shall, on a quarterly basis, file with the
city a statement specifying areas of non-compliance along with a remedial plan.
Failing to file a non-compliance statement and a remedial plan shall subject a
grantee to pay a civil forfeiture to the city of $50.00 per day.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-13. Reports and records of cable television operation.
(a)   Annual financial reports required. During the term of a franchise, the
grantee shall file annually with the City Secretary not later than 120 days
after the end of its fiscal year and, if the franchise is terminated or expires
prior to the end of a grantee's fiscal year, 120 days after such termination or
expiration, two copies of:
   (1)   an audited financial statement applicable to the cable system serving
the city, including a detailed income and expense statement applicable to its
operation during the preceding 12-month period, a balance sheet and a statement
of its properties devoted to the cable system operation, by categories, giving
its investment in such properties on the basis of original cost, less
applicable depreciation;
   (2)   an operational report that summarizes the quarterly report information
required in Section 95-13(b) below; and
   (3)   the gross revenue from each revenue source attributable to the
operations of grantee from within the city.
   These reports shall be certified as being correct by a responsible officer
of the grantee and there shall be submitted along with them such other
reasonable information as the city shall request.
(b)   Quarterly reports on system performance required. A grantee shall submit
to the city, on a quarterly basis, within 30 days following March 31, June 30,
September 30, and December 31 of each year, throughout the term of an
agreement, a reasonable, statistical summary of the operations of the system to
include, but not be limited to, the number of dwelling units passed; the number
of basic service subscribers; penetration percentages for basic and expanded
basic service; the number of repair service requests received in the previous
quarter; breakdown by type of complaint received (ex. "complete outage"or
"snowy picture" etc); breakdown by cause of problem (ex. "subscriber equipment"
or "drop/converter" or "system" etc.); breakdown by time of response or
resolution (ex. "within 24 hours" or "same day" etc.); subscribers added, each
tier and each premium channel; subscribers disconnected, each tier and for each
premium channel; average hold time for subscriber service telephone calls that
were received in the previous quarter; percentage of telephone calls that were
answered within 30 seconds during the previous quarter; and percentage of calls
received within the previous quarter which were abandoned before being answered
by a live operator. With the exception of the circumstance of a new build or
rebuild, which shall require quarterly reporting, the number of cable plant
miles in construction or completed through December 31 shall be provided
annually no later than March 31 throughout the term of the agreement.
(c)   Grantee shall annually file prior to March 31 current maps showing the
system. The grantee shall file with the City Manager or his/or her designee on
or before the last day in March of each year, up-dated current maps or sets of
maps drawn to scale, showing the cable system as installed and in place in
streets, public rights-of-way and other public places of the city.
(d)   Ownership reports required. During the term of a franchise, the grantee
shall file with the city not later than three months after the approval or
renewal of any franchise, and within 30 days of any change in the original
information thereafter, two copies of the following supplemental information:
   (1)   if grantee is a nonprofit corporation, a list of all current directors
or trustees of record. If a public corporation, a list of all shareholders who
individually or as a concerted group hold ten percent or more of the voting
stock of the corporation;
   (2)   a current list of all the grantee's officers and directors including
addresses and telephone numbers;
   (3)   the names and both business and residential addresses and phone
numbers of the cable television system resident manager and engineer shall be
made available to the City Manager or his or her designee; and
   (4)   if the grantee is a subsidiary of a firm, a report showing all
corporations or partnerships with more than a ten ownership interest in the
franchisee, and the nature of that ownership interest (limited partner, general
partner, preferred shareholder, etc.); and showing the same information for
each corporation or partnership that holds such an interest in the corporations
or partnerships so identified and so on until the ultimate corporate and
partnership interests are identified, and an annual report for each such
entity.
(e)   Public availability of reports. Such reports as required under this
article shall be available to the public in the office of the City Secretary,
during normal business hours.
(f)   Correspondence. The grantee shall simultaneously file with the city a
copy of each petition, application, report and communication pertaining to the
operations of the cable television system that are transmitted by the grantee
to, or received by the grantee from, any federal, state or other regulatory
commissions, agencies or courts regarding the local cable system.
(g)   City's access to records. The city shall have access during all normal
business hours to all grantee's records required to be maintained by this
Charter or any franchise agreement.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-14. Rate regulation.
(a)   City reserves right to regulate rates. The city reserves the right to
regulate the grantee's rates for cable service to the fullest extent permitted
by applicable law.
(b)   Current rate schedule to be filed with city: 30 days notice required
prior to rate change. A grantee, for information purposes, and for the city to
ensure nondiscrimination, shall provide the city with a complete schedule of
all current basic service and enhanced service rates and charges, including pay
TV and pay-per-view rates and charges, and (subject to other requirements
specified in the materials referenced in Section 95-14(e)) shall give 30 days
prior notice from the date of mailing to the city and to all affected
subscribers of any pricing changes or additional charges, excluding temporary
marketing and sales discounts or offers. Forty-five days before any price
changes or additional charges are to take effect, a grantee shall provide the
city with a copy of the proposed notification for subscribers so that the city
may review the text of the notice to assure accuracy of information being
presented to subscribers.
(c)   Grantee to furnish service to each person in franchise area making
request for service. Grantee shall furnish and maintain cable service to each
person within the franchise area who makes a bona fide request to receive such
service that is based upon the requirements of this ordinance and/or a
franchise agreement. Nothing in a franchise agreement shall limit the right of
the grantee to deny service to any person which has a negative credit or
service history with the grantee, which may include non-payment of bills or
theft or damage to the grantee's equipment, or who has threatened or assaulted
employees of the grantee in the course of their employment. Provided that in
the event service is denied, the grantee will give written notice to the person
requesting service of his or her right to appeal to the city the grantee's
decision to deny service, and of the city's authority to reverse the grantee's
decision in instances where the grantee has acted unreasonably.
(d)   Basic service charges must be applied on nondiscriminatory basis. All
charges for basic service must be applied on a nondiscriminatory basis. A
grantee may, however, conduct promotional campaigns in which rates are
discounted or waived, and may offer bulk rate discounts for multiple unit
dwellings, hotels, motels, and similar institutions.
(e)   City adopts rate regulation procedures consistent with FCC rules. The
city hereby adopts by reference rules of the Federal Communications Commission
set forth in Subpart (n) (Cable Rate Regulation) of Part 76 (Cable Television
Service) of Chapter I of Title 47 of the Code of Federal Regulation regarding
the regulation of cable television rates for basic service and associated
equipment, as amended.
   After a grantee has submitted for review its existing rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment costs or a proposed increase in these
rates, the grantee shall publish a public notice of the rates and costs giving
interested parties, including the grantee, a reasonable opportunity to file
written comments which shall be available in the offices of the City Secretary
for public inspection and copying during normal business hours.
   The city adopts by reference procedures set forth in 47 CFR Section 459
regarding confidential business information submitted by the Grantee in a rate
regulation proceeding.
   A grantee which willfully or repeatedly fails to comply with a rate
regulation or refund order directed specifically at the grantee shall be
subject to a monetary forfeiture as determined by the city, not to exceed
$10,000.00 for failure to comply with a rate regulation and $50,000.00 for
failure to comply with a refund order.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-15. Franchise renewal process.
The franchise renewal process of the city shall be in accordance with Section
626 (47 U.S.C. 546) Communications Act of 1934, as amended, and with all other
applicable state and federal laws, this article, the existing franchise
agreement, and the City Charter.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-16. Letter of credit.
(a)   Grantee is required to file an irrevocable letter of credit. Within 30
days after the effective date of a franchise, grantee shall deposit with the
city an irrevocable letter of credit in the amount set forth in the franchise
agreement and issued by a local federally insured commercial lending
institution that has been approved by the city. The form and substance of said
letter of credit shall be subject to the approval by the City Attorney. The
letter of credit shall be used to assure: the faithful performance by the
grantee of all provisions of the franchise agreement and the cable ordinance;
compliance with all orders, permits and directions of the City Manager or any
agency, commission, board, department, division or office of the city having
jurisdiction over any aspect of the grantee's performance under a franchise and
this article; and the payment by the grantee of any penalties, liquidated
damages, claims, liens, franchise fees, taxes or other fees due to the city
which arise by reason of the construction, operation or maintenance of the
cable system, including cost of removal of any property of the grantee.
(b)   Letter of credit may be drawn upon by the city after following specified
procedure that assures due process to grantee. The letter of credit may be
drawn upon by the city by presentation of a draft at sight on the lending
institution, accompanied by a written certificate signed by the City Manager
certifying that the grantee has failed to comply with the franchise agreement
and/or this article, stating the nature of the noncompliance, and stating the
amount being drawn. Examples of the nature of the noncompliance for drawing
upon the letter of credit include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (1)   failure of the grantee to pay to the city any franchise fees, taxes,
liens or other fees after ten days written notice of delinquency;
   (2)   failure of the grantee to pay to the city after ten days written
notice, any amounts due and owing by reason of the indemnity provisions of
Section 95-5;
   (3)   failure of the grantee to pay to the city any liquidated damages due
and owing pursuant to a franchise agreement;
   (4)   failure to make any payment required by an agreement within the time
fixed therein;
   (5)   failure to pay to the city within ten working days after receipt of
written notice, any damages, claims, costs or expenses which the city has been
compelled to pay or incur by the reason of any material act or default by the
grantee;
   (6)   failure to comply within ten working days after receipt of written
notice from the city, with any material provisions of an agreement or cable
ordinance which the city reasonably determines can be remedied by an
expenditure of an amount from the letter of credit or other instrument.
   In the event of such noncompliance, the city may order the withdrawal of the
appropriate amount of liquidated damages, penalties, fees or otherwise from the
letter or other instrument for payment to the city, provided that, prior to
each such withdrawal; (i) the grantee shall be afforded an opportunity to cure
any of said failures within 30 days after written notice from the city that the
withdrawal is to be made; or (ii) if such cure cannot be reasonably
accomplished within such 30 days, then the grantee shall have a reasonable time
to cure, provided that the grantee commences such cure within such 30 days and
diligently pursues such cure to completion.
(c)   Letter of credit shall be replenished to original amount following any
draw down. Grantee shall structure the letter of credit in such a manner so
that if the city at any time draws upon the letter of credit, the amount of
available credit shall automatically increase to the extent necessary to
replenish that portion of the available credit exhausted by the honoring of the
draft. The intent of this subsection is to make available to the city at all
times a letter of credit in the amount specified in the franchise agreement.
(d)   The city's rights with respect to letter of credit are in addition to
other rights. The rights reserved to the city with respect to the letter of
credit are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether reserved by a
franchise agreement or authorized by law, and no action or proceeding against a
letter of credit shall affect any other right the city may have.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-17. Liquidated damages.
(a)   Parties shall agree to specific liquidated damages to be paid by grantee
for certain delays or nonperformance. A grantee's failure to comply with any
timing or performance requirements set forth in a franchise agreement will
result in damage to the city, the amount of which will be impracticable to
ascertain. Therefore, the city and the grantee will negotiate the amount of
liquidated damages to be set forth in a franchise agreement. Every franchise
agreement shall provide that the city's recovery of such damages shall be
without prejudice to any other remedy the city may have.
(b)   Procedures established to assure grantee of due process and opportunity
to cure problem before damages assessed. If the City Manager, following prior
reasonable notice to a grantee to cure any problem that might result in
liquidated damages, concludes that a grantee is liable for liquidated damages
pursuant to the franchise agreement, he/she shall issue to grantee by certified
mail a notice of intention to assess liquidated damages. The notice shall set
forth the basis of the assessment, and shall inform the grantee that liquidated
damages will be assessed from the date of the notice unless the assessment
notice is appealed for hearing before the City Council and the Council rules
(a) that the violation has been corrected, or (b) that an extension of the time
or other relief should be granted. If the grantee desires a hearing before the
Council, it shall send a written notice of appeal by certified mail to the City
Manager within ten days of the date on which the City Manager sent the notice
of intention to assess liquidated damages. After the hearing, if the Council
sustains in whole or in part the City Manager's assessment of liquidated
damages, the City Manager may at any time thereafter draw upon the letter of
credit required by Section 95-15. Unless the Council indicates to the contrary,
said liquidated damages shall be assessed beginning with the date on which the
City Manager sent the notice of intention to assess liquidated damages and
continuing thereafter until such time as the violation ceases, as determined by
the City Manager.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-18. Forfeiture and termination.
(a)   Franchise may be terminated for material breach of terms and conditions;
examples given. In addition to all other rights and powers retained by the
city, the city reserves the right to terminate a franchise and all rights and
privileges of the grantee in the event of a material breach of this article or
a franchise agreement. A material breach by a grantee shall include, but shall
not be limited to, the following:
   (1)   violation of any material provision of the cable ordinance or
franchise agreement or any material rule, order, regulation or determination of
the city made pursuant to a franchise;
   (2)   attempt to evade any material provision of the cable ordinance or a
franchise or practice any fraud or deceit upon the city or the subscribers of
the cable system;
   (3)   failure to begin or complete cable system construction, reconstruction
or cable system extension as provided under a franchise agreement;
   (4)   failure to restore cable service after 48 consecutive hours of
interrupted cable service, except when there is just cause and when approval of
such interruption is obtained from the City Manager;
   (5)   substantial failure to satisfy the requirements regarding system
characteristics or repeated failure to meet the technical performance standards
specified in a franchise agreement;
   (6)   abandonment of the system, in whole or in material part, without the
prior written consent of the city;
   (7)   substantial failure to supply the access channels and other support
and any related services, equipment and facilities as required in a franchise
agreement;
   (8)   substantial and repeated failure to comply with the consumer service
standards and requirements set forth in the cable ordinance and a franchise
agreement;
   (9)   any material misrepresentation, made by or on behalf of a grantee in
its proposal to obtain a franchise, or in connection with the negotiation or
re-negotiation of, or any amendment or other modification to a franchise
agreement, to the extent that any such misrepresentation was relied upon by the
city;
   (10)   there is made an assignment for the benefit of creditors or an
appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over the business of the grantee,
whether in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy assignment for the
benefit of creditors, or other action or proceeding, unless the conditions set
forth in Section 95-18(e)(1) and (2) are fulfilled.
(b)   Procedures outlined leading to possible termination of franchise. The
City Manager may make a written demand that a grantee comply with any
provision, rule, order, or determination under or pursuant to the cable
ordinance or a franchise agreement. If the violation breach, failure, refusal
or neglect by a grantee continues for a period of 30 days following such
written demand without written proof that the corrective action has been taken
or is being actively and expeditiously pursued, the City Manager may place the
issue of termination of a franchise before the City Council. The City Manager
shall cause to be served upon grantee, at least 20 days prior to the date of
such City Council meeting, a written notice of intent to request such
termination and the time and place of the meeting. Public notice shall be given
of the meeting and the issue which the City Council is to consider.
(c)   City Council shall hear and consider issues and determine if a violation
has occurred. The City Council shall hear and consider the issue and shall hear
any person interested therein, and shall determine, whether or not any
violation by a grantee has occurred. The City Council may delegate to any
board, commission, committee or city official any responsibilities or duties
reserved to the Council under this article.
(d)   City Council may declare franchise terminated if compliance does not
occur within specified period. If the City Council shall determine the
violation by a grantee was the fault of the grantee and within its control, the
City Council, may, by ordinance, declare that the franchise of the grantee be
terminated, unless there is compliance within such period as the City Council
may fix.
(e)   Franchise may cease and terminate 120 days after appointment of
receivers. Any franchise granted shall, at the option of city, cease and
terminate 120 days after the appointment of a receiver or receivers or trustee
or trustees to take over and conduct the business of grantee whether in a
receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy, or other action or proceeding unless
such receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated prior to the
expiration of said 120 days, or unless:
   (1)   such receivers or trustees shall have within 120 days, after their
election or appointment fully complied with all the terms and provisions of
this article and a franchise granted pursuant hereto, and the receivers or
trustees within said 120 days shall have remedied all defaults under the
franchise; and,
   (2)   such receivers or trustees shall have within 120 days executed an
agreement duly approved by the court having jurisdiction, whereby such
receivers or trustees assume and agree to be bound by each and every term,
provision, and limitation of the franchise agreement.
(f)   Procedure if a foreclosure occurs.In the case of a foreclosure or other
involuntary sale of the plant, property, and equipment of grantee, or any part
thereof, city may serve notice of termination upon grantee and to the purchaser
at such sale, in which event the franchise and rights and privileges of grantee
shall cease and terminate 30 days after service of such notice unless:
   (1)   city has approved the transfer of the franchise, as and in the manner
in this ordinance provided; and
   (2)   such successful purchaser shall have covenanted and agreed with city
to assume and be bound by all the terms and conditions of the franchise
agreement.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-19. Purchase of CATV system by city under 47 U.S.C. 547.
(a)   Rights to purchase. In addition to the right of first refusal and the
procedure to exercise same set out in Section 95-4(a) herein, in the event the
grantee forfeits or city revokes this franchise for cause, or when the renewal
of the franchise has been denied pursuant to the renewal procedures in the
federal law, the city shall have all rights to acquire ownership of the cable
system as are specified in federal law in 47 U.S.C. 547.
(b)   Franchise valuation. Under circumstances where the grantee forfeits the
franchise, or when renewal of the franchise has been denied by the city, the
city may purchase the system for its fair market value, determined on the basis
of the system as a going concern, with no value allocated to the franchise
itself.
Under circumstances where the franchise has been revoked for cause by the city,
the acquisition shall be at an equitable price in accordance with 47 U.S.C.
547.
(c)   Date of valuation. The date of valuation shall be no earlier than the day
following the date of expiration or termination and no later than the date city
makes a fair and reasonable offer for the system or the date of transfer of
ownership, whichever occurs first.
(d)   Transfer to city. Upon exercise of this option and the payment of the
above sum by the city, the grantee shall immediately transfer to the city
possession and title to all facilities and property, real and personal, used or
useful in the operation of the cable system, free from any and all liens and
encumbrances not agreed to be assumed by the city in lieu of some portion of
the purchase price set forth above; and the grantee shall execute such warranty
deeds or other instruments of conveyance to city as shall be necessary for this
purpose.
(e)   Arbitration of value and costs.
   (1)   In the event city and grantee cannot agree upon the value of cable
system, either may give notice of demand to the other for arbitration.
   (2)   Arbitration of unresolved issues of value and costs shall commence and
proceed according to law except as follows:
      •   The parties shall, within 30 days of giving and receiving notice of
demand for arbitration, appoint one arbitrator each who is experienced and
knowledgeable in the valuation of cable television property. Arbitrators shall
each agree upon the selection of a third arbitrator, similarly qualified,
within another 15 days.
      •   Within 30 days after appointment of all arbitrators and upon ten days
written notice to parties, the board of arbitrators shall commence a hearing on
the issue of valuation.
      •   The hearing shall be recorded and transcribed at the request of
either party. All hearing proceedings shall be open to the public and at such
times and places as contained in the notice or as thereafter publicly stated in
the order to adjourn, except as otherwise authorized by the City Attorney.
      •   Within 30 days after the close of the hearing, the board shall
prepare findings and the decision agreed upon by a majority of the board which
shall be filed with the city and served by mail upon the grantee.
      •   Any decision of the board not appealed within 45 days as provided
herein shall be final and binding upon the parties and may be enforced by any
court of competent jurisdiction.
      •   Either party may seek judicial relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction in the following circumstances:
         1.   a party fails to select an arbitrator;
         2.   the arbitrators fail to select a third arbitrator;
         3.   specified time limits have been exceeded;
         4.   the board has not proceeded expeditiously;
         5.   based upon the record the board committed fraud, exceeded its
authority or abused its discretion;
            •   In the event a court of competent jurisdiction determines the
board has committed fraud, exceeded its authority or abused its discretion, it
may order the arbitration procedure repeated and issue findings, orders and
directions, with costs of suit to be awarded to the prevailing party.
            •   Costs of arbitration shall be born equally unless the board
finds the offer of the city or the demand of grantee was unreasonable, in which
case, cost may be apportioned so that less or none of the costs may be born be
one party.
         6.   a party dissatisfied with the value or cost, or a portion of the
value or cost, determined by the arbitration board may appeal such value or
cost or portion of value or cost.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-20. Waivers.
(a)   Any provision of this article may be waived for good cause shown, at the
sole discretion of the city, by formal action of the City Council.
(b)   A grantee may submit a written request for a waiver to the City Council
at any time during the franchise term. Such request for a waiver, at the sole
discretion of the City Council, may be set for a public hearing, and a decision
shall be made within 120 days following the submission. Procedures for the
modification of franchise obligations shall be in compliance with section 625
(47 U.S.C. 545) Title VI, Communications Act of 1934.
(c)   The City Council may authorize the economic, technical, or legal
evaluation of such waiver request, and the grantee shall be required to
reimburse the city for any expenditure incurred by the city in connection with
such evaluation.
(d)   This section is enacted solely for the convenience and benefit of the
grantor and shall not be construed in such a manner as to create any right or
entitlement for the grantee.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Sec. 95-21. Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)   Every direction, notice or order by the city to be served upon a grantee
shall be delivered or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
office responsible for the local cable system. Every notice served upon the
city shall be delivered or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the City Manager, City of Longview, Texas.
(b)   All provisions of this article shall apply to a grantee, its successors,
and assignees, as may be approved by City Council in accordance with this
article.
(c)   City Council may delegate to any board, commission, committee or city
official any responsibilities or duties reserved to the Council under this
article.
(d)   The rights granted by this article are subject to all franchises and
permits heretofore or hereafter granted by the Council to use the streets of
the city by other public utility or public service corporations. It is not
intended by the grant of a franchise to abridge the exercise of the police
power heretofore or hereafter granted to the city by the state. The grant of a
franchise is subject to all ordinances and resolutions or agreements adopted by
the City Council as the same now exist or may be hereafter amended, revised or
codified, in the lawful exercise of any other power granted to the city.
(e)   Specific mention of the materiality of any of the provisions herein is
not intended to be exclusive of any others for the purpose of determining
whether any failure of compliance hereunder is material and substantial.
(f)   If any particular section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, or clause of
this article, or the particular application thereof, shall be held invalid, the
remaining provisions, and their application, shall not be affected thereby.
(g)   A grantee, upon its acceptance of a franchise, shall be bound by the
provisions of this article, all responses, statements, and all matters agreed
upon in a franchise agreement.
(h)   A grantee shall assume the cost of any publications required by law and
such is payable upon a grantee's filing of acceptance of a franchise.
(i)   In the event that any provision of the Cable Act of 1984, 1992, or 1996
or other statute, law or regulation, which is relied on herein or in any
franchise agreement for any definition or requirement, is repealed, then the
language of such provision at the time of such repeal shall nevertheless
continue to apply for purposes of this article or any franchise agreement,
regardless of such repeal, except as otherwise provided herein or in any
franchise agreement or as prohibited by such subsequent repeal or amendment.
(j)   The rights and remedies reserved to the city by this article are
cumulative and shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other
rights or remedies which the city may have with respect to the subject matter
of this article. A waiver of any right or remedy by a party at one time shall
not affect the exercise of said right or remedy or any other right or other
remedy by such party at any other time. The failure of the city to take any
action in the event of a material breach by the grantee shall not be construed
or otherwise be deemed to constitute a waiver of the right of the city to take
such action at any other time in the event that said material breach has not
been cured, or with respect to any other material breach by the grantee.
(k)   In the event that, after the effective date of this article, any court,
agency, commission, legislative body, or other authority of competent
jurisdiction: (i) declares the article invalid, in whole or in part, or (ii)
requires the grantee either to: (a) perform any act which is inconsistent with
any provision of the article or (b) cease performing any act required by any
provision of the article, the city shall reasonably determine whether said
declaration or requirement has a material and adverse effect on the article.
When the grantee intends to exercise its rights pursuant to such declaration,
the grantee shall so notify the city of said declaration or requirement.
(l)   The headings contained in this article and any franchise agreement are to
facilitate reference only, do not form a part of this article or any franchise
agreement, and shall not in any way affect the construction or interpretation
hereof.
(Ord. No. 2801, § 3, 2-25-99)
Article II.
Regulation of the City's Emergency Radio Broadcast Corridor
Sec. 95-22. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article the following words or expressions shall have
the definitions as stated below:
   Building shall be defined as all habitable structures constructed in
accordance with the building code of the City of Longview.
   Emergency radio broadcast corridor shall mean that area beginning at an
elevation of 50 feet in height above ground level extending outward a distance
of 25 feet along and either side of an imaginary line between the situs of the
city's two emergency radio microwave broadcast towers, as the same are located
at 302 West Cotton Street and 114 Alexander Street in the City of Longview,
Texas, as such imaginary line is further defined in that exhibit marked Exhibit
A attached to Ordinance No. 2809 by reference.
   Structure shall mean any edifice built or constructed of permanent
materials, not intended for human habitation, and including but not limited to
signs, advertising billboard signs, utility and incidental accessory
structures, such as television antennas, ham radio antennas, light stanchions
and poles, and similar apparatus, and any other items constructed of permanent
materials.
(Ord. No. 2809, § 3, 4-8-99)
Sec. 95-23. Prohibition of construction which interferes with the emergency
radio broadcast corridor.
(a)   No building or other structure, or portions thereof, shall be erected or
maintained by any property owner, lessee, licensee, contractor, utility or
government entity not otherwise exempt by law, which creates interference or
obstruction to the City of Longview's law enforcement, public safety, general
government or emergency microwave telecommunications towers and emergency radio
broadcast corridor.
(b)   To ensure compliance with this article, any person or entity intending to
construct or erect, within the City of Longview, a building or structure
greater than 50 feet in height, shall submit plans, either as part of the
building permit review process or, if a site plan is required, as a part of the
site plan process, that indicate the location and height of all buildings or
structures in excess of 50 feet in height. If said plans indicate the proposed
building or structure is in the vicinity of the city's emergency microwave
telecommunications towers or the emergency radio broadcast corridor, said plans
shall be accompanied by documentation demonstrating that the proposed building
or structure would not result in any disturbance or interference to the city's
emergency microwave telecommunications towers or the emergency radio broadcast
corridor.
(c)   If a determination is made that the proposed building or structure would
create a disturbance or interference with the use of the city's emergency
microwave telecommunications towers or the emergency radio broadcast corridor,
the property owner, lessee, licensee, contractor or government entity may:
   (1)   modify their plans in such a manner as to remove the interference or
disturbance; or
   (2)   provide appropriate facilities and/or equipment at no cost to the city
to ensure the continued satisfactory operation of the telecommunications
network.
(Ord. No. 2809, § 3, 4-8-99)
Sec. 95-24. Penalties.
A violation of the requirements of this article shall be subject to the
penalties set out in Section 1-4 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Longview. In addition, the City Attorney shall be and is hereby authorized to
seek injunctive relief where necessary to compel compliance with this article.
(Ord. No. 2809, § 3, 4-8-99)
Secs. 95-25 - 95-49. Reserved.
Sec. 95-50. Quarterly access line report.
(a)   Definitions. The following terms and definitions shall apply in this
section:
   Access line has the meaning assigned by Section 283.002(1) of the Texas
Local Government Code unless a different meaning is assigned by the Public
Utility Commission of Texas under Section 283.003 of said code, in which case
the term access line shall have the meaning assigned by the Public Utility
Commission.
   Certificated telecommunications provider has the meaning assigned by Section
283.002(2) of the Texas Local Government Code.
   City means the City of Longview, Texas.
   City Manager means the City Manager of the City of Longview, Texas, or his
designee.
   Commission means the Public Utility Commission of Texas.
   Public right-of-way means the area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, public sidewalk, alley, waterway, or utility easement in which
the city has an interest. The term does not include the airwaves above a right-
of-way with regard to wireless telecommunications.
(b)   Access line report required of certificated telecommunications providers.
Each certificated telecommunications provider having access lines located
within the public right-of-way shall provide the City Manager with a copy of
the report filed by that certificated telecommunications provider with the
Commission pursuant to Section 283.055(j) of the Texas Local Government Code.
Said copy shall be filed quarterly no later than ten days after the deadline
for filing said report with the Commission.
(c)   Confidentiality. The city shall maintain the confidentiality of the
information contained in the aforementioned report in accordance with Section
283.005 of the Texas Local Government Code, Section 52.207 of the Texas
Utilities Code, and the rules of the Commission.
(Ord. No. 2892, § 3, 1-13-00)
Secs. 95-51 - 95-70. Reserved.
Article III.
Enhanced 911 Emergency Communication System Fee
Sec. 95-71.   Definitions.
As used in this article, the following words and terms have the following
meanings unless context requires otherwise:
   Access line means a "Local Exchange Access Line" or an "Equivalent Local
Exchange Access Line" that serves an end-user customer's premises located
within the corporate limits of the city and that has access (through a
permissible interconnection to the dedicated 9-1-1 network) to the Public
Safety Answering Point operated by the city.
   Collection Agreement means an agreement authorized under Section 95-74 of
this article.
   E9-1-1 Fee means the fee imposed in Section 95-72 of this article.
   Equivalent Local Exchange Access Line means an "Equivalent Local Exchange
Access Line" as said term is defined in 1 Texas Administrative Code Section
255.4, or any successor to said section, as said definition may from time to
time be amended.
   Local Exchange Access Line means a "Local Exchange Access Line" as said term
is defined in 1 Texas Administrative Code Section 255.4, or any successor to
said section, as said definition may from time to time be amended.
   Public Safety Answring Point means a "Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP)"
as said term is defined in 1 Texas Administrative Code Section 251.14, or any
successor to said section, as said definition may from time to time be amended.
   Telephone Service Provider means any person that provides one or more access
lines for a fee. The term includes, without limitation, the Incumbent Local
Exchange Company (ILEC), any Competing Local Exchange Companies (CLECs) and any
provider of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) services.
   Telephone Service User means an end-user customer who is billed by a
telephone service provider for the use of an access line.
(Ord. No. 3589, §2, 7-10-08)
Sec. 95-72.   E9-1-1 fee imposed; use of E9-1-1 fee.
(a)   E9-1-1 fee imposed. There is hereby imposed a fee on each access line;
provided, however, that said fee shall not be imposed on more than one hundred
(100) access lines that serve the same premises and that are billed to the same
telephone service user unless the lines or services are used by residents of
the location. The amount of the E9-1-1 fee shall be set by resolution of the
City Council, and the City Council may set the E9-1-1 fee at different amounts
for different types of access lines, telephone service users or telephone
service providers.
(b)   Use of E9-1-1 fee. The E9-1-1 fee shall be used exclusively for the
purpose of defraying the costs of the city's enhanced 9-1-1 emergency
communication system, including the costs of purchases, installations,
operation, maintenance and personnel expenses related to said system, and the
cost of collecting and remitting the E9-1-1 fee (as permitted by Section 95-75
of this article).
(Ord. No. 3589, §2, 7-10-08)
Sec. 95-73.   Assessment, collection and delinquency.
(a)   Assessment. The E9-1-1 fee shall be assessed and collection shall begin
in the monthly billing cycle following that month in which use of the city's
enhanced 9-1-1 emergency communication system is made available through the
access line on which the E9-1-1 fee is imposed.
(b)   Collection. The E9-1-1 fee shall be added to and stated separately on the
telephone service user's bill. Each telephone service user is liable for the
E9-1-1 fee so billed until said E9-1-1 is paid. The amount of te E9-1-1 fee is
due monthly at the same time as payment is due for the telephone bill on which
the E9-1-1 fee is stated.
(c)   Delinquency. A telephone service user shall be delinquent in the payment
of the E9-1-1 fee if the telephone service user does not pay the E9-1-1 fee to
the telephone service provider before the 31st day after the payment due date
stated on the bill on which the E9-1-1 fee was stated.
(d)   Certificate of Delinquency. The telephone service provider shall provide
to the city a certificate of delinquency that states the amount of all
delinquent E9-1-1 fees owed by each non-paying telephone service user and
states the name and address of each such telphone service user. Each such
certificate shall cover such a timeframe as shall be agreed between the city
and the telephone service provider. Said certificate of delinquency shall be
prima facie evidence that a fee included in the certificate is delinquent.
(e)   Interest on delinquent E9-1-1 fees. Any and all delinquent fees shall
accrue interest at an annual rate of twelve percent (12%) or the highest rate
allowed by law, whichever is lower, beginning on the date the payment becomes
due.
(f)   Notice of change in amount of E9-1-1 fee. In accordance with any
collection agreement, whether said collection agreement be authorized previous
to the enactment of this article or subsequent to said enactment, the City
Manager or the City Manager's designee shall notify telephone service providers
of any change in the amount of the E9-1-1 fee in sufficient advance time to
permit the telephone service providers' billing system to comply timely with
the change and the effective date of any such future change shall be dlayed
until sufficient time has elapsed to comply with this notice requirement.
(Ord. No. 3589, §2, 7-10-08)
Sec. 95-74.   Collection agreement authorized.
The City Manager, or such person as the City Manager may designate in writing,
is hereby authorized to negotiate and execute, on behalf of the city and
without further approval from the City Council, any and all contractual
agreements or other documents necessary or convenient for the collection and
remittance of the E9-1-1 fee by a telephone service provider; provided,
however, that all such agreements and other documents must be in a form
acceptable to the City Attorney or the City Attorney's designee and must be
consistent with this article.
(Ord. No. 3589, §2, 7-10-08)
Sec. 95-75.   Collection fee authorized.
In order to defray the telephone service provider's cost of collecting and
remitting the E9-1-1 fee, each telephone service provider shall be entitled to
receive a collection fee equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the E9-1-
1 fee collected by that telephone service provider. Said collection fee shall
be deducted from said amount in accordance with the collection agreement.
(Ord. No. 3589, §2, 7-10-08)
Sec. 95-76.   Enforcement.
(a)   City Manager authority. The City Manager is hereby authorized, without
further approval of the City Council, to instiute all lawful proceedings and to
establish internal procedures necessary or convenient to collect E9-1-1 fees
and to recover the cost of collection from any non-paying telephone service
user or telephone service provider; provided, however, that no proceedings in
any court or before any state or federal administrative body shall be
undertaken without consent of the City Attorney.
(b)   City Attorney authority. The City Attorney is hereby authorized, without
further approval of the City Council, to institute and cause to be prosecuted
all proceedings in any court or before any local, state or federal
administrative body necessary or convenient for the collection of the E9-1-
1 fee, for the enforcement of this article, or for the collection of any court
costs, attorneys' fees, interest and/or any other costs associated with the
collection of the E9-1-1 fee or the enforcement of this article.
(Ord. No. 3589, §2, 7-10-08)
Chapter 96
Reserved
Chapter 97
Traffic
Article I. In General
Sec.
97-1.   Definitions.
Sec.
97-2.   City Traffic Engineer - Position created; appointment; duties; power.
Sec.
97-3.   Same - Emergency and experimental regulations.
Sec.
97-3.1.    Same - Regulations, etc., to be in writing and filed with the City
Secretary.
Sec.
97-4.   Duty of police officers to enforce traffic laws.
Sec.
97-5.   Authority of police officers to direct traffic.
Sec.
97-6.   Authority of officers of fire department to direct traffic.
Sec.
97-7.   Obedience to traffic officers.
Sec.
97-8.   Culpable mental state not required.
Sec.
97-9.   Riding on portion of vehicle not intended for passengers.
Sec.
97-10.   Reserved.
Sec.
97-11.   Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles.
Sec.
97-12.   Clinging to moving vehicles.
Sec.
97-13.   Reserved.
Sec.
97-14.   Glass, nails, etc. not to be deposited in street; removal of same.
Sec.
97-15.   Operation of golf carts on public streets and highways.
Secs.
97-16 - 97-33.  Reserved.
Article II. Operation of Vehicles Generally
Secs.
97-34 - 97-40.  Reserved.
Sec.
97-41.    U-turns
Secs.
97-42 - 97-58.  Reserved.
Sec.
97-59.   Driving between vehicles of procession.
Secs.
97-60 - 97-65.  Reserved.
Sec.
97-66.   Truck routes.
Secs.
97-67 - 97-74.  Reserved.
Article III. Traffic-Control Devices Generally
Sec.
97-75.   Conformity with manual and specifications of state highway department;
uniformity.
Sec.
97-76.   General powers and duties of City Traffic Engineer relative to
devices.
Sec.
97-77.   Designation of crosswalks and safety zones and marking traffic lanes.
Sec.
97-78.   Obedience to devices.
Sec.
97-79.   Necessity of signs.
Sec.
97-80.   Installation of traffic lights.
Sec.
97-81.   Traffic-control signal legend generally.
Sec.
97-82.   Pedestrian walk and wait signals.
Sec.
97-83.   Flashing signals.
Sec.
97-84.   Ratification of existing devices.
Sec.
97-85.   Unauthorized signs, signals, etc.
Sec.
97-86.   Altering, injuring, etc., devices.
Sec.
97-87.    Crossing roadway at other than crosswalk prohibited in certain
places.
Secs.
97-88 - 97-96.  Reserved.
Article IV. Reserved.
Secs.
97-97 - 97-111.    Reserved
Article V. Stopping, Standing and Parking
Division 1. Generally
Secs.
97-112 - 97-113.    Reserved.
Sec.
97-114.   Prohibited for certain purposes.
Sec.
97-115.   Ten feet of roadway to be left available for traffic.
Sec.
97-116.   Stop intersections.
Secs.
97-117 - 97-118.    Reserved.
Sec.
97-119.   Designation and marking of parking spaces and areas where parking is
prohibited or limited.
Sec.
97-120.   Parking in prohibited areas; overtime parking.
Sec.
97-121.   Parallel and angle parking.
Sec.
97-122.   Parking or standing in alleys.
Sec.
97-123.   Overnight parking.
Sec.
97-124.   Loading and unloading generally.
Sec.
97-125.   Designation and use of curb loading zones.
Sec.
97-126.   Designation and use of bus stops and taxicab stands.
Sec.
97-127.   Impoundment of standing or parked vehicles.
Sec.
97-128.   Presumption that owner of vehicle illegally parked same.
Sec.
97-129.   Law enforcement parking.
Sec.
97-130.   Designation of parking spaces for disabled persons.
Sec.
97-131.   Certain persons authorized to enforce disabled parking laws.
Sec.
97-132.   Signs used to designate hours of usage.
Sec.
97-133.   Stopping, standing and parking within two-hours parking zones.
Division 2. Parking Meters
Sec.
97-134.   Definitions.
Sec.
97-135.   Parking zones.
Sec.
97-136.   Parking limits.
Sec.
97-137.   Designation of parking spaces; vehicles to be parked within lines.
Sec.
97-138.   Loading zones in parking zones.
Sec.
97-139.   Injuring, tampering with meters.
Sec.
97-140.   Violation of parking regulations - Report required.
Sec.
97-141.   Notice of violation to be attached to vehicle.
Sec.
97-142.   Penalties.
Secs.
97-143 - 97-154.    Reserved.
Article VI. Reserved.
Secs.
97-155 - 97-162.    Reserved.
Article VII. Photographic Traffic Signal Enforcement
Sec.
97-163.   Definitions.
Sec.
97-164.   Imposition of civil penalty for violations.
Sec.
97-165.   Enforcement; procedures.
Sec.
97-166.   Administrative adjudication hearing.
Sec.
97-167.   Order.
Sec.
97-168.   Presumptions.
Sec.
97-169.   Effect of liability; exclusion of civil remedy.
Sec.
97-170.   Use of funds.
Article I.
In General
Sec. 97-1. Definitions.
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section.
   Alley. A public thoroughfare which ordinarily affords only a second means of
access to abutting property.
   Authorized emergency vehicle. Vehicles of the fire department, police
vehicles and such ambulances and emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of
Police.
   Business district. The territory contiguous to and including a roadway when,
within any 600 feet along such roadway, there are buildings in use for business
or industrial purposes, which occupy 300 feet of frontage on one side or 300
feet collectively on both sides of the roadway.
   Crosswalk. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
street measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway. The word "crosswalk" also means any portion of a
roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian
crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
   Curb loading zone. A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
   Driver  or  operator. Every person who drives or is in actual physical
control of a vehicle.
   Freight curb loading zone. A space adjacent to a curb for the exclusive use
of vehicles during the loading or unloading of freight.
   Intersection. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right angles, or
the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets joining at any
other angle may come in conflict. Where a street includes two roadways 30 feet
or more apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided street by an
intersecting street shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event
such intersecting street also includes two roadways 30 feet or more apart, then
every crossing two roadways of such streets shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
   Laned roadway. A roadway which is divided into two or more clearly marked
lines for vehicular traffic.
   Limited-access or control-access highway. Every highway, street or roadway
in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property or lands and other
persons have no legal right of access to or from the same except at such points
only and in such manner as may be determined by the public authority having
jurisdiction over such highway, street or roadway.
   Motorcycle. Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground,
but excluding a tractor.
   Motor vehicle. Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which
is propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
   Official time standard. Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall
mean standard time or daylight-saving time as may be in current use in the
city.
   Official traffic-control devices. All signs, signals, markings, and devices
not inconsistent with this chapter placed or erected by authority of a public
body or official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or
guiding traffic.
   Park. When prohibited, the standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not,
otherwise than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading.
   Passenger curb loading zone. A place adjacent to a curb for the exclusive
use of vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers.
   Pedestrian. Any person afoot.
   Police officer. Every officer of the city police department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
   Private road or driveway. Every way or place in private ownership and used
for vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied
permission from the owner but not by other persons.
   Railroad. A carrier of persons or property upon cars, other than streetcars,
operated upon stationary rails.
   Railroad train. A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without
cars coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except streetcars.
   Residence district. The territory contiguous to and including a street or
highway not comprising a business district when the property on such street or
highway, for a distance of 300 feet or more, is, in the main, improved with
residences or residences and buildings in use for business.
   Right-of-way. The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
   Roadway. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel. In the event a highway includes two or
more separate roadways, the term "roadway" shall refer to any such roadway
separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
   Safety zones. The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for
the exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
   Sidewalk. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   Stop. When required, means complete cessation of movement.
   Stop, stopping or standing. When prohibited, means any stopping or standing
of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
   Street or highway. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   Traffic. Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles, streetcars, and
other conveyances, either singly or together, while using any street for
purposes of travel.
   Traffic-control signal. Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and to
proceed.
   Vehicle. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a street or highway, except devices moved by human
power or used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
Sec. 97-2. City Traffic Engineer - Position created; appointment; duties;
power.
(a)   There is hereby created the office of City Traffic Engineer.
(b)   The City Traffic Engineer shall be appointed by the City Manager.
(c)   The City Traffic Engineer shall have the responsibility and authority to
determine the installation and proper timing and maintenance of traffic-control
devices, to conduct engineering analysis of traffic accidents and to devise
remedial measures, to conduct engineering investigations of traffic conditions,
to plan the operation of traffic on the streets and highways of this city, and
to cooperate with other city officials in the development of ways and means to
improve traffic conditions, and to carry out the additional powers and duties
imposed by ordinances of this city.
(d)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby empowered to make regulations
necessary to make effective the provisions of this chapter and other traffic
ordinances.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. I, 1-13-81)
Sec. 97-3. Same - Emergency and experimental regulations.
(a)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby empowered to make temporary or
experimental traffic regulations to cover emergencies or special conditions. No
such temporary or experimental regulation shall remain in effect for more than
90 days.
(b)   The City Traffic Engineer may test traffic-control devices under actual
conditions of traffic.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. II, 1-13-81)
Sec. 97-3.1. Same - Regulations, etc., to be in writing and filed with the City
Secretary.
Every regulation, designation, delineation, or determination promulgated by the
City Traffic Engineer pursuant to the authority granted in this chapter shall,
unless otherwise provided herein, be described in writing and filed with the
City Secretary. Such writing shall constitute a public record, and all persons
shall be charged with notice of the contents of the same.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. III, 1-13-81)
Sec. 97-4. Duty of police officers to enforce traffic laws.
It shall be the duty of the officers of the police department or such officers
as are assigned by the Chief of Police to enforce all street traffic laws of
this city and all of the state vehicle laws applicable to street traffic in
this city.
Sec. 97-5. Authority of police officers to direct traffic.
Officers of the police department or such officers as are assigned by the Chief
of Police are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand, or signal
in conformance with traffic laws. In the event of fire or other emergency or to
expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, officers of the police department
may direct traffic as conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of
the traffic laws.
Sec. 97-6. Authority of officers of fire department to direct traffic.
Officers of the fire department, when at the scene of a fire, may direct or
assist the police in directing traffic thereat or in the immediate vicinity.
Sec. 97-7. Obedience to traffic officers.
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of a police officer or fire department official given to direct or
control traffic as authorized in this chapter.
Sec. 97-8. Culpable mental state not required.
Unless otherwise specifically set forth herein, or in state or federal law as
adopted, allegation and evidence of culpable mental state are not required for
the proof of an offense defined by this chapter.
(Ord. No. 3501, §2, 1-25-07)
Sec. 97-9. Riding on portion of vehicle not intended for passengers.
No person shall ride on any vehicle upon any portion thereof not designated or
intended for the use of passengers. This provision shall not apply to any
employee engaged in the necessary discharge of a duty, or to persons riding
within truck bodies in space intended for merchandise.
Sec. 97-10. Reserved.
Sec. 97-11. Boarding or alighting from moving vehicles.
No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is in
motion.
Sec. 97-12. Clinging to moving vehicles.
No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, sled, roller skates or
any toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself to any moving vehicle upon any
roadway.
Sec. 97-13. Reserved.
Sec. 97-14. Glass, nails, etc. not to be deposited in street; removal of same.
(a)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any street or alley any glass
bottle, glass, nails, tacks, wire, cans or any other substance likely to injure
any person, animal or vehicle upon such street or alley.
(b)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any street
or alley any destructive or injurious material shall immediately remove the
same or cause it to be removed.
(c)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from any street or alley
shall remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon such street or
alley from the vehicle.
Sec.
97-15. Operation of golf carts on public streets and highways.
(a)   In this section all terms shall have the meaning assigned to them in the
Texas Transportation Code.
(b)   An operator of a golf cart, who has a valid driver's license, may operate
the golf cart on a public street or highway which has a posted speed limit of
not more than 30 miles per hour, within the City of Longview.
(c)   A golf cart operated on a public street or highway pursuant to this
ordinance must comply with all other applicable law and must be equipped with
the following equipment:
   (1) headlamps;
   (2) taillamps;
   (3) reflectors;
   (4) parking brake;
   (5) mirrors; and
   (6) a slow-moving vehicle emblem.
(d)   A person who operates a golf cart on a public street or highway pursuant
to this ordinance must maintain current financial responsibility for the golf
cart, as required of other passenger vehicles in the Texas Transportation Code
Section 601.051, as amended.
(e)   The penalty for violation of this section shall be as set forth in
Section 1-4 of this Code.
(f)   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted,
allegation and evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof
of an offense defined by this section.
(Ord. No. 3726, § 2, 11-11-10)
Secs. 97-16 - 97-33. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3501, § 4, 01-25-07)
Article II.
Operation of Vehicles Generally
Secs. 97-34 - 97-40. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. IV, 1-13-81; Ord. No. 3501, § 4, 1-25-07)
Sec. 97-41. U-turns.
(a)   In this section, “U-turn” shall mean the act of turning a vehicle on any
public street so as to proceed in the opposite direction.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a U-turn in any area that is
posted by the City Traffic Engineer with a sign or signs indicating that such a
movement is prohibited.
(c)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a U-turn unsafely, or by
backing or while causing interference with other traffic.
(Ord. No. 674, § 1, 5-13-69; Ord. No. 3501, § 3, 1-25-07)
Secs. 97-42 - 97-58. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3501, § 4, 1-25-07)
Sec. 97-59. Driving between vehicles of procession.
No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a funeral or
other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such vehicles are
conspicuously identified. This provision shall not apply at intersections where
traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals or police officers.
Secs. 97-60 - 97-65. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 675, § 1, 5-13-69; Ord. No. 3501, § 4, 1-25-07)
Sec. 97-66. Truck routes.
(a)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the following meanings:
      Deviating truck is a truck which leaves and departs from a truck route
while traveling inside the city.
      Truck is any vehicle designed or operated for the transportation of goods
or property, and which has more than two axles.
      Truck route is a way over certain streets as designated herein, over and
along which trucks coming into and going out of the city must operate.
(b)   Application of regulation.
(1)   All trucks within the city shall be operated only over and along truck
routes herein established and on the other designated streets over which truck
travel is permitted.
(2)   Exceptions. This section shall not prohibit:
      a.   The operation of trucks upon any street where necessary to the
conduct of business at a destination point, provided streets upon which such
traffic is permitted are used until reaching the intersection nearest the
destination point.
      b.   The operation of any emergency vehicles upon any street in the city.
      c.   The operation of trucks owned or operated by the city, by public
utilities, or by any contractor or materialman while engaged in the repair,
maintenance or construction of streets, street improvements or street utilities
within the city.
      d.   The operation of trucks upon any officially established detour in
any case where such truck could lawfully be operated upon the street for which
such detour is established.
(c)   Truck routes established. All trucks entering the city for destination
points outside the city shall operate only over the following designated truck
routes:
   (1)   When entering the city from the east or the west, on U. S. Highway 80
or West Marshall Avenue, State Highway 31, FM 2208 or Alpine Road, FM 2206 or
Harrison Road, Loop 281 or Interstate Highway 20 from city limits to city
limits.
   (2)   When entering the city from the north or south, on U. S. Highway 259,
U. S. Highway 149, State Highway 300, FM 2205 or Jaycee Drive, Spur 502 or
Judson Road, State Highway 322, FM 1845 and Loop 281 from the city limits to
the city limits.
(d)   Designated streets for truck use. In addition to those streets in the
city constituting a part of the truck route as established herein, the
following streets and no others, running in both directions, shall be used for
truck traffic:
   (1)   Estes Parkway from the south city limits to High Street;
   (2)   High Street to Judson Road;
   (3)   Judson Road to the north city limits on Judson Road;
   (4)   Mobberly Avenue from Estes Parkway to East Methvin Street;
   (5)   East Methvin Street from Mobberly Avenue to Sixth Street;
   (6)   Sixth Street from East Methvin Street to East Marshall Avenue;
   (7)   West South Street from the west city limits to South High Street;
   (8)   East Cotton Street from Mobberly Avenue to Eastman Road;
   (9)   Fisher Road from U.S. Highway 80 (West Marshall) to FM 2206 (Harrison
Road);
   (10)   Enterprise Street from U.S. Highway 80 (West Marshall) to FM 1845
(Harrison Road);
   (11)   Hawkins Parkway from State Highway 300 (Gilmer Road) to U. S. Highway
259 (Eastman Road);
   (12)   Sabine Street from the city limits to South Center Street;
   (13)   South Center Street from Sabine Street to East Nelson Street;
   (14)   East Nelson Street from Center Street to High Street;
   (15)   West Cotton Street from Spur 63 to Center Street;
   (16)   East Cotton Street from Center Street to Mobberly Avenue.
(e)   Truck traffic in the city.
   (1)   Outside origin.
      a.   All trucks entering the city for a destination point in the city
shall proceed only over an established truck route and shall deviate only at
the intersection with the street upon which such traffic is permitted, nearest
the destination point. Upon leaving the destination point, a deviating truck
shall return to the truck route by the shortest permissible route.
      b.   All trucks entering the city from multiple destination points shall
proceed only over established truck routes and shall deviate only at the
intersection with the street, upon which such traffic is permitted, nearest to
the first destination point. Upon leaving the first destination point, a
deviating truck shall proceed to other destination points by the shortest
direction and only over streets upon which such traffic is permitted. Upon
leaving the last destination point, a deviating truck shall return to the truck
route by the shortest permissible route.
   (2)   Inside origin.
      a.   All trucks, on a trip originating in the city and traveling in the
city for a destination point outside the city, shall proceed by the shortest
direction over streets on which such traffic is permitted to a truck route as
herein established.
      b.   All trucks, on a trip originating in the city, and traveling in the
city for a destination point in the city, shall proceed only over streets upon
which such traffic is permitted.
(f)   Maintaining maps. The City Secretary shall keep and maintain accurate
maps setting out truck routes and streets upon which truck traffic is
permitted, which shall be kept on file in the office of the City Secretary and
shall be available to the public.
(g)   Violation and penalty. Any person who shall drive or any person, firm,
partnership, or corporation that owns or operates a truck which permits the
same to be driven on any public street in the city in violation of this section
is guilty of a misdemeanor and the penalty for violation of this section shall
be as provided in Section 1-4 of the Code of Ordinances of the city.
(Ord. No. 3530, 7-26-07)
Secs. 97-67 - 97-74. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 2284, 3-11-93)
Article III.
Traffic-Control Devices Generally
Sec. 97-75. Conformity with manual and specifications of state highway
department; uniformity.
All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the state highway department. All signs and signals
required under this chapter for a particular purpose shall, so far as
practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout the city. All
traffic-control devices so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of
state law or this chapter shall be official traffic-control devices.
Sec. 97-76. General powers and duties of City Traffic Engineer relative to
devices.
The City Traffic Engineer shall place and maintain traffic control signs,
signals, and devices when and as required under this chapter to make effective
the provisions of this chapter, and may place and maintain such additional
traffic-control devices as he may deem necessary to regulate traffic under this
chapter or under state law, or to guide or warn traffic. It shall be the duty
of the City Traffic Engineer to supervise the installation and proper timing
and maintenance of traffic-control devices.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. VII, 1-13-81)
Sec. 97-77. Designation of crosswalks and safety zones and marking traffic
lanes.
The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to:
(1)   designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon the
surface of the roadway, crosswalks at any intersection where, in his opinion,
there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway, and at such
other places as he may deem necessary.
(2)   establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such places as
he may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(3)   mark lanes for traffic on street pavements at such places as he may deem
advisable, consistent with this chapter and other traffic ordinances of this
city.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. VIII, 1-13-81)
Sec. 97-78. Obedience to devices.
The driver of any vehicle shall obey the instructions of any official traffic-
control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with this chapter and
other traffic ordinances of this city, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer, subject to the exceptions granted the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle.
Sec. 97-79. Necessity of signs.
No provision of this chapter for which signs are required shall be enforced
against an alleged violator if, at the time and place of the alleged violation,
an official sign is not in proper position and sufficiently legible to be seen
by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever a particular section does not state
that signs are required, such section shall be effective even though no signs
are erected or in place.
Sec. 97-80. Installation of traffic lights.
The City Traffic Engineer shall designate intersections at which traffic shall
be controlled by electric traffic control signals or lights and shall cause
such signals or lights to be installed and maintained at such intersections.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. IX, 1-13-81)
Sec. 97-81. Traffic-control signal legend generally.
Whenever traffic is controlled by traffic-control signals exhibiting the words
"Go," "Caution" or "Stop," or exhibiting different colored lights successively
one at a time, or with arrows, the following colors only shall be used and such
terms and lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of vehicles and
pedestrians as follows:
(1)   Green alone or Go.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal may proceed straight through or
turn right or left, unless a sign at such place prohibits either such turn, but
vehicular traffic, including vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles and to pedestrians lawfully within the
intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at the time such signal is exhibited.
   b.   Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within any
marked or unmarked crosswalk.
(2)   Yellow alone or Caution when shown following the green or Go signal.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal is thereby warned that the red or
"Stop" signal will be exhibited immediately thereafter and such vehicular
traffic shall not enter or be crossing the intersection when the red or "Stop"
signal is exhibited.
   b.   Pedestrians facing such signal are thereby advised that there is
insufficient time to cross the roadway, and any pedestrian then starting to
cross shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles.
(3)   Red alone or Stop.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering the
crosswalk on the near side of the intersection or, if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until green or "Go" is
shown alone; provided that, after stopping and yielding to all pedestrians and
vehicles, the driver of a vehicle may enter the intersection for the purpose of
making a right turn only, if a sign is in place indicating that such turn can
be made.
   b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he can
do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
(4)   Red with green arrow.
   a.   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow, but shall yield
the right-of-way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
   b.   No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway unless he can
do so safely and without interfering with any vehicular traffic.
In the event an official traffic-control signal is erected and maintained at a
place other than an intersection, the provisions of this section shall be
applicable except as to those provisions which, by their nature, can have no
application. Any stop required shall be made at a sign or marking on the
pavement indicating where the stop shall be made, but in the absence of any
such sign or marking, the stop shall be made at the signal.
Sec. 97-82. Pedestrian walk and wait signals.
Whenever special pedestrian-control signals exhibiting the words "Walk" or
"Wait" are in place, such signals shall indicate as follows:
(1)   Walk. Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right-of-way by the drivers
of all vehicles.
(2)   Wait. No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction of
such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing on the
walk signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone while the wait signal is
showing.
Sec. 97-83. Flashing signals.
Whenever flashing red or yellow signals are used they shall require obedience
by vehicular traffic as follows:
(1)   Flashing red (stop signal). When a red lens is illuminated by rapid
intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the
nearest crosswalk at an intersection or at a limit line when marked and the
right to proceed shall be subject to the rules applicable after making a stop
at a stop sign.
(2)   Flashing yellow (caution signal). When a yellow lens is illuminated by
rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the
intersection or past such signal only with caution.
Sec. 97-84. Ratification of existing devices.
All traffic-control signs, signals, devices, and markings placed or erected
prior to the adoption of this Code by the police department and in use for the
purpose of regulating, warning or guiding traffic are hereby affirmed, ratified
and declared to be official traffic-control devices, provided such traffic-
control devices are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or
state law.
Sec. 97-85. Unauthorized signs, signals, etc.
(a)   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any road,
street or highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any
official traffic-control device or any railroad signal or sign, and no person
shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority permit upon any highway
or street any traffic signal or sign bearing thereon any commercial
advertising. This shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection, upon private
property adjacent to streets or highways, of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signals.
(b)   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and the city is hereby empowered to remove the same or cause
them to be removed without notice.
Sec. 97-86. Altering, injuring, etc., devices.
No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter, deface,
injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-control device or any
inscription, shield or insignia thereon or any other part thereof.
Sec. 97-87. Crossing roadway at other than crosswalk prohibited in certain
places.
(a)   In this section the following terms shall have the following meanings:
   The term "business district" has the meaning assigned by Texas
Transportation Code Section 541.102(1), as said section may from time to time
be amended.
   The term "crosswalk" has the meaning assigned by Texas Transportation Code
Section 541.302(2), as said section may from time to time be amended.
(b)   Pedestrians shall not cross a street, roadway, or highway within a
business district at any place other than in a crosswalk.
(c)   They penalty for violation of this section shall be as set forth in
Section 1-4 of this Code.
(d)   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in state law as adopted,
allegation and evidence of culpable mental state are not required for the proof
of an offense defined by this section.
(Ord. No. 3575,  §2, 4-24-08)
Secs. 97-88 - 97-96. Reserved.
Article IV.
Reserved
Secs. 97-97 - 97-111. Reserved.
Article V.
Stopping, Standing and Parking
Division 1.
Generally
Secs. 97-112 - 97-113. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 1297, Art. I, 1-8-80; Ord. No. 3501, §6, 1-25-07)
Sec. 97-114. Prohibited for certain purposes.
No person shall stand or park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
purpose of:
(1)   displaying it for sale.
(2)   washing, greasing, filling with gas or oil or repairing such vehicle,
except repairs necessitated by an emergency.
Sec. 97-115. Ten feet of roadway to be left available for traffic.
No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner
or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width
of either lane of a roadway for free movement of the vehicular traffic, except
that a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals of a police officer.
Sec. 97-116. Stop intersections.
The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and designate the
intersections where particular hazards exist and to determine whether vehicles
shall stop at one or more entrances to any such stop intersection, and shall
erect a stop sign at every such place where a stop is required.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. XI, 1-13-81)
Secs. 97-117 - 97-118. Reserved.
(Ord. No. 3501, § 6, 1-25-07)
Sec. 97-119. Designation and marking of parking spaces and areas where parking
is prohibited or limited.
The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine and designate
parking spaces, areas in which parking is prohibited, and time limit parking
areas in and on such streets and parts thereof as he deems necessary. All such
spaces or areas shall be clearly indicated by appropriate signs.
In areas designated as time limit parking areas, parking may be limited to any
period prescribed by the City Traffic Engineer, the same to be designated with
clearly distinguishable markings or signs at both ends of the time limit area
and at reasonable intervals between the beginning and ending of such time limit
area, indicating the time allowed for parking in such area.
Any time limit on parking established under this section shall apply on such
days and between such hours as prescribed by the City Traffic Engineer.
(Ord. No. 1297, Art. I, 1-8-80; Ord. No. 1382, Art. XII, 1-13-81)
Sec. 97-120. Parking in prohibited areas; overtime parking.
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, allow, permit or suffer any
vehicle registered in his name or owned or operated by him or in his possession
or under his control to be or remain in any space or area in which parking is
prohibited as provided in Section 97-119, or in a time limit parking area for a
longer period of time than that designated by the markings on the street or by
signs clearly visible.
Sec. 97-121. Parallel and angle parking.
(a)   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 18 inches of the curb or edge
of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this section. On one-way
streets, vehicles may be parked on the left side of the street, with the left-
hand wheels within 18 inches of the curb or edge of the roadway, unless signs
prohibit such parking.
(b)   The City Traffic Engineer shall determine upon which streets angle
parking shall be permitted and shall mark or sign such streets, but such angle
parking shall not be indicated upon any federal aid or state highway within
this city unless the State Highway Engineer has determined that the roadway is
of sufficient width to permit angle parking without interfering with the free
movement of traffic.
   Angle parking shall not be indicated or permitted at any place where passing
traffic would hereby be caused or required to drive upon the left side of the
street or upon any railway tracks.
(c)   Upon those streets which have been signed or marked for angle parking, no
person shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or
edge of the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. Whenever parking
spaces are marked by lines on the pavement, whether for parallel or angle
parking, a vehicle must be parked entirely within the line of the parking
space.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. XIII, 1-13-81)
Sec. 97-122. Parking or standing in alleys.
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to have available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stand or park a
vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the driveway entrance to
any abutting property.
Sec. 97-123. Overnight parking.
Overnight parking for storage on any paved street is hereby prohibited.
"Overnight parking for storage" is hereby defined as the habitual parking or
storing of cars, trucks, tractors or other vehicles on paved streets during the
hours from sundown to sunup, except temporarily disabled vehicles which are
protected by flares or other approved signal devices. It is not the intention
of this section to prohibit or interfere with passenger cars temporarily parked
at night, where such parking is not done regularly and during the entire night.
Sec. 97-124. Loading and unloading generally.
All freight trucks shall be, and are hereby required, to be loaded and unloaded
from the alley entrance, if practicable. Where conditions are such as to make
the loading or unloading thereof from an alley impracticable, such trucks shall
be parked on the street in accord with all applicable provisions of this
article.
Sec. 97-125. Designation and use of curb loading zones.
(a)   Curb loading zones.
   (1)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
when the provisions of this section are applicable, where, in his opinion, the
dimensions of the streets and sidewalks, the flow of traffic, and the use of
property abutting the streets are such that he finds it to be necessary for the
free flow and expeditious handling of traffic and the safety of persons and
property.
   (2)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
period of time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of
passengers in any place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours
when the regulations applicable to such curb loading zones are effective, and
then only for a period not to exceed three minutes.
   (3)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone
during hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
(b)   Mid-street loading zones.
   (1)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to determine the
location of freight mid-street loading zones and shall designate by appropriate
on-street striping and marking said mid-street loading zones where, in his
opinion, the dimensions of the streets and sidewalks, the flow of traffic, and
the use of property abutting the streets are such that he finds it to be
necessary for the free flow and expeditious handling of traffic and the safety
of persons and property.
   (2)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle authorized to enter
said mid-street loading zone for any purpose or length of time other than for
the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup and loading of materials in
any place marked as a mid-street loading zone except as set out herein, and in
no case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials extend in excess
of 15 minutes unless as otherwise authorized herein.
   (3)   No vehicles other than trucks with a load capacity in excess of 1,500
pounds or greater shall be authorized to utilize said mid-street loading zones.
In no instance shall automobiles be entitled to park or otherwise use said
loading zones.
   (4)   At no time shall any vehicle utilizing said mid-street loading zone
extend outside the designated confines of said loading zone into any traffic
lane.
   (5)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in a mid-street loading
zone without immediately actuating and maintaining in an actuated condition the
hazardous flashers on said vehicle. In addition, any such vehicle stopped,
standing, or parked in said mid-street loading zone shall be so designated by
the placement of at least one 18-inch tall or taller orange safety cone, said
safety cone to be placed immediately adjacent to and to the rear of said
vehicle for the duration of time that said vehicle is parked in said safety
zone.
   (6)   All vehicles entering or exiting any mid-street loading zone shall
observe all state laws and city ordinances with regard to lane changes and
activation of signal lights indicating lane changes.
   (7)   Vehicles may park in a mid-street loading zone for a duration in
excess of 15 minutes, provided such vehicle is parked in said loading zone in
full conformance with the other requirements of this subsection, and provided
the owner or operator of said vehicle is permitted to exceed said time
limitation by the City Engineer or his designee upon a showing to the City
Traffic Engineer of a reasonable necessity for extending said duration;
provided, however, that the City Engineer's discretion to deny such extended
time shall be final.
(Ord. No. 2320, 7-22-93)
Sec. 97-126. Designation and use of bus stops and taxicab stands.
(a)   The City Traffic Engineer is hereby authorized to establish bus stops and
taxicab stands on such public streets in such places and in such number as he
shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public,
and every such bus stop and taxicab stand shall be designated by appropriate
signs.
(b)   The driver of a bus or taxicab shall not park upon any street in any
business district at any time other than a bus stop or taxicab stand,
respectively, except that this provision shall not prevent the driver of any
such vehicle from temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or
parking regulations at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged
in loading or unloading passengers.
(c)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand
has been officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver
of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and
while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping
does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter
such zone.
(Ord. No. 1382, Art. XV, 1-13-81)
Sec. 97-127. Impoundment of standing or parked vehicles.
(a)   Members of the police department are hereby authorized to remove or cause
to be removed a vehicle from a street or highway to the nearest garage or other
place of safety, or to a garage or parking lot designated or maintained by the
police department or otherwise maintained by the city, under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated:
   (1)   when a vehicle upon a roadway is so disabled as to constitute an
obstruction to traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is, by reason of
physical injury, incapacitated to such an extent as to be unable to provide for
its custody or removal.
   (2)   when any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
   (3)   when any vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so parked
illegally as to constitute a definite obstruction to employees of the city
engaged in cleaning the streets upon which the vehicle is illegally parked, or
when any vehicle is illegally parked and constitutes an obstruction to the
progress of construction or repair work on any of the city's water or sewer
lines.
   (4)   if a nonresident of the city has failed on more than one occasion to
comply with notice attached to an illegally parked vehicle owned by him, and
warrants have been issued for his arrest but not served because of his absence,
the police are authorized to impound his vehicle as provided in this section,
when such vehicle is next found left unattended upon a street and illegally
parked.
   (5)   when any vehicle is parked or left unattended upon a street in an area
designated by the Chief of Police as a tow-away zone and being so indicated by
signs or pavement markings.
(b)   When an officer removes or causes to be removed a vehicle from a street
as authorized in this section and the officer knows or is able to ascertain
from the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, such officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in
writing to such owner of the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and
of the place to which such vehicle has been removed. In the event any such
vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to
the proprietor of such garage.
(c)   When an officer removes or causes to be removed a vehicle from a street
under this section and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of
the owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as
hereinbefore provided, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the
owner within a period of three days, then and in that event the officer shall
immediately send or cause to be sent a written report of such removal by mail
to the state highway department. Such notice shall include a complete
description of the vehicle, the date, time and place from which removed, the
reasons for such removal, and the name of the garage or place where the vehicle
is stored.
(d)   In the event a vehicle is removed from a street under this section, the
owner of same shall pay, in addition to the fine, if any, assessed against him,
reasonable costs incurred in removing the vehicle from the street, and
reasonable storage for the time the same is stored in a garage or parking lot.
(Ord. No. 1297, Art. I, 1-8-80)
Sec. 97-128. Presumption that owner of vehicle illegally parked same.
In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation governing the
standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described
in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or regulation,
together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was, at the time
of such parking, the registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of such vehicle
was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point where, and for
the time during which, such violation occurred.
Sec. 97-129. Law enforcement parking.
(a)   Authorized law enforcement vehicle is defined as a motor vehicle operated
by a member of the Longview Police Department, Gregg County Sheriff's
Department, Texas Highway Patrol, Texas Alcoholic Beverage Commission, Texas
Rangers, or Gregg County Constable for Precinct 1, in his or her official
capacity as a peace officer.
(b)   No person may stand or park a vehicle, other than an authorized law
enforcement vehicle, on Whaley Street on the south side, from Center Street to
294 feet east of Center Street, or on the north side, from 162 feet east of
Center Street to 252 feet east of Center Street; provided that the City of
Longview Traffic Engineer may choose to designate certain parking spaces within
this area, as may be needed, for handicapped parking only.
(c)   The areas designated herein for law enforcement vehicles shall be marked
as official law enforcement vehicle parking only.
(Ord. No. 1516, 7-22-82)
Sec. 97-130. Designation of parking spaces for disabled persons.
(a)   Designation of accessible parking spaces. A person or political
subdivision who owns or controls public or private property used for parking
and who is subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1991 must
designate one or more parking spaces or a parking area for the exclusive use of
vehicles transporting disabled persons by conforming such spaces to the parking
space specifications in the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility
Guidelines (ADAAG).
   (1)   Standards for accessible and "van-accessible" spaces. The ADAAG
specifications are the standard by which all property owners offering public
services, benefits or activities and/or places of public accommodation will be
held responsible for in determining the following parking space requirements:
      a.   minimum number of required accessible spaces; .
      b.   location of spaces as related to building entrances;
      c.   width and slope of parking spaces and parking access aisles;
      d.   requirement of "van accessible" spaces and vertical clearance
minimums.
   (2)   Provision of passenger loading zones; valet parking:
      a.   Where passenger loading zones are provided, then at least one shall
comply with the ADAAG requirements with regard to the following:
         1.   vertical clearance requirements;
         2.   provision of access aisle(s) and width and length requirements;
         3.   necessity of curb ramps; and
         4.   slope requirements.
      b.   Valet parking facilities shall provide a passenger loading zone in
compliance with the ADAAG regulations and located on an accessible route to the
building entrance.
   (3)   Signage required; regulated by ADAAG:
      a.   Accessible parking spaces shall be designated as reserved by a sign
showing the International Symbol of Accessibility as described in the ADAAG
regulations.
      b.   Spaces complying with the "van-accessible" requirements shall have
an additional sign "van-accessible" mounted below the symbol of accessibility.
      c.   Such signs shall be located so they cannot be obscured by a vehicle
parked in the space and there must be a minimum of five (5) feet from pavement
to the bottom of the sign.
      d.   Property owners subject to these provisions are responsible for
acquiring and properly posting the conforming signs.
   (4)   Duty of property owners. Property owners shall acquire appropriate
information necessary to conform parking spaces designated for the disabled to
the requirements of this section and federal law.
(b)   Offenses. It is unlawful to stop, stand, or park a vehicle:
   (1)   displaying neither a special license plate or disabled parking placard
in parking space or area designated for the exclusive use of vehicles
transporting disabled persons;
   (2)   displaying a special license plate or disabled parking placard in a
parking space designated for the exclusive use of vehicles transporting
disabled persons at a time when the driver is neither a disabled person nor
engaged in transporting a disabled person;
   (3)   so as to block an aisle or clear space, access ramp, curb ramp or
other architectural improvements designed to aid disabled persons.
(c)   Removal of unauthorized vehicles. The owner of a parking facility,
whether public or private, or any peace officer having jurisdiction within the
corporate limits may remove or cause the removal of or issue a citation to any
vehicle parked in violation of this section.
(d)   Presumption-registered owners. In a prosecution under subsection (b) of
this section, it is presumed that the registered owner of the motor vehicle
that is the subject of the prosecution is the person who parked the vehicle at
the time and place the alleged offense occurred.
(e)    Definitions. As used in this section:
      Disabled parking placard. The term “disabled parking placard” shall mean
the placard issued by the Texas Department of Transportation or successor
agency to a disabled person under state law.
      Disabled person. The term “disabled person” shall mean a person who is
permanently or temporarily disabled within the meaning of state law or within
the meaning of the Americans with Disabilities Act, and who has applied for and
received a special license plate or disabled parking placard from the Texas
Department of Transportation or successor agency.
      Special license plate. The term “special license plate” shall mean the
symbol, tab, or other device issued by the Texas Department of Transportation
or successor agency to a permanently disabled person under state law and
designed for a vehicle transporting a permanently disabled person.
(f)   Citation authority. All certified Texas peace officers, volunteer
individuals authorized to issue citations for violation of disabled parking
statutes and ordinances that are apponted by the City of Longview pursuant to
Chapter 681 of the Texas Transportation Code, as amended, and security officers
commissioned under Chapter 1702 of the Texas Occupations Code, as amended, that
are employed by the owner of private property, shall have and possess authority
to issue citations for violation of the provisions of this section and state
statutes which apply to disabled parking violations. Persons other than
certified Texas peace officers that are authorized by the City Council to issue
citations pursuant to this section shall meet all of the requirements of state
law, including the successful completion of a training program of at least four
hours.
(g)   Penalty. An offense under this section is a misdemeanor punishable by a
fine as specified in V.T.C.A., Transportation Code § 681.011, as amended.
(Ord. No. 3030, § 2, 4-26-01; Ord. No. 3525, § 40, 6-14-07; Ord. No. 3597, §2,
8-21-08)
Sec. 97-131. Certain persons authorized to enforce disabled parking laws.
(a)   Any individual interested in being authorized, pursuant to Section 97-130
(f), to issue citations for certain parking violations within the city limits
must request such authority in writing to the Chief of Police of the City of
Longview.
(b)   The Chief of Police shall be responsible for reviewing any written
requests by individuals seeking appointment to issue citations for violations
of the disabled parking statutes and ordinances. The Chief of Police or his or
her designee will have the sole authority to appoint requesting individuals as
volunteers to issue citations for violations of the disabled parking statutes
and ordinances, upon fulfilling all requirements of any applicable statute,
ordinance, or city policy.
(c)   Authorizations under this section will be valid until rescinded by the
Chief of Police or his or her designee.
(Ord. No. 1483, 4-27-82; Ord. No. 3030, § 3, 4-26-01; Ord. No. 3597, §3, 8-21-
08)
Sec. 97-132. Signs used to designate hours of usage.
(a)   A person who owns or controls property used for parking may designate the
hours during which said parking area may be used by the public to stop, park,
or stand a motor vehicle. A person designates the hours for such use by posting
in a conspicuous place adjacent to each entrance of the parking area a sign
that conforms with the design and posting requirements of this section.
(b)   Signs used to designate the hours during which a parking area may be used
by the public to stop, stand, or park a motor vehicle shall meet the following
criteria:
   (1)   it shall be a non-movable sign permanently mounted at least five feet
above the ground or pavement;
   (2)   it shall state the hours such parking lot shall be available for use
by the public to stop, stand, or park a motor vehicle;
   (3)   it shall contain a notice of the penalty provided for herein for
violation of this section; and
   (4)   the sign shall be a minimum size of eighteen (18) inches wide by
twenty-four (24) inches tall.
(c)    Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or the directions of a police officer, or official traffic-
control device, no person shall stop, stand, or park a motor vehicle in a
parking area during hours that said parking area is specifically marked, as
required herein, as not being available for such use at that time.
(d)    Every person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $1.00 nor more than $200.00.
(Ord. No. 1512, § Art. I(1--3), 6-24-82; Ord. No. 3419, § 2, 11-10-05)
Sec. 97-133.   Stopping, standing and parking within two-hour parking zones.
(a)   Each merchant operating a business within a two-hour parking zone may
apply in writing to the clerk of the city municipal court to receive a stamp
which may be used to verify that an individual parking within the zone in
excess of two hours and who receives a citation for overtime parking, has been
a customer of that business for the entire period of time alleged on the
citation. The stamped citation that has been fully and correctly completed by
the downtown merchant shall constitute a motion for dismissal of the citation
to the city municipal court and shall be considered a defense to the offense of
overtime parking if submitted to the court clerk within three business days of
issuance.
(b)   No merchant possessing a stamp issued by the city municipal court as
provided in subsection (a) above may stamp more than two citations which were
issued to the same individual within any 30 day period.
(c)   No merchant possessing a stamp issued by the city municipal court as
provided in subsection (a) above may stamp more than two citations which were
issued to the same vehicle within any 30 day period.
(d)   Each stamp issued to a merchant pursuant to the provisions of subsection
(a) of this section will be sequentially numbered and will be issued to the
owner or manager of the business. Once issued, the stamp will be the sole
responsibility of the owner or the manager of the business and must be securely
maintained by the owner or manager at all times. Each stamped citation must
clearly display the stamp's number for the court to consider dismissal.
(e)   Each merchant submitting an application for a stamp as described in
subsection (a) above shall pay a non-refundable, annual fee. Said fee shall be
set by resolution of the City Council.
(f)   Every person convicted of a violation of this section shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $1.00 nor more than $500.00.
(g)   Upon a third violation of this section by a merchant possessing a stamp
issued by the city municipal court, the stamp issued to the merchant by the
city municipal court shall be returned to said court and the merchant shall not
be permitted to stamp and present subsequent citations to said court for
dismissal.
(h)   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, molest, hinder or
obstruct a parking enforcement officer or other officer responsible for
enforcement of this section, in the discharge of their duties.
(Ord. No. 3140, § 3, 8-8-02; Ord No. 3656 § 7, 9-10-09)
Division 2.
Parking Meters
Sec. 97-134. Definitions.
For the purpose of this division, the word park or parking shall mean the
standing of a vehicle, whether such vehicle is occupied or not.
(Ord. No. 1999, 12-8-88)
Sec. 97-135. Parking zones.
Type of Zone
Two-hour parking
Locations 
200 through 300 blocks of East Whaley Street.
South side of the 100 block of West Methvin Street; the 100 block of East
Methvin Street; that portion of the north side of the 200 block of East Methvin
Street east of the U. S. Post Office property line and all of the south side of
the 200 block of East Methvin Street; the 300 block of East Methvin Street
appropriately marked.
Tyler Street from the west 200 block east through the east 300 block
appropriately marked.
100 block and the north side of the 200 block of East Cotton Street.
Eastern one-half of the south side of the east 100 block of South Street,
appropriately marked.
200 block of North High Street, save and except the northern one-half of the
east side of the block.
Center Street from the south 200 block north through the north 300 block.
The western sides of the 200 through 300 blocks of and an appropriately marked
portion of the eastern side of the 200 block of South Fredonia Street; Fredonia
Street from the south 100 block through the north 300 block, save and except an
appropriately marked southerly portion of the eastern side of the north 300
block.
Appropriately marked portions of the north 200 block, all of the north 300
block, and appropriately marked portions of the eastern side of the north 400
block of Green Street.
Long-term parking 
North side of the west 100 block of Methvin Street.
North side of the east 100 block of Whaley Street.
North side of the west 100 block of Whaley Street, appropriately marked.
East side of the north 400 block of Fredonia Street.
Fifteen-minute parking 
Appropriately marked portion of the south end of the east side of the north 300
block of Fredonia Street.
Appropriately marked portion of the west end of the north side of the east 200
block of Methvin Street.
Sheriff's department parking 
South side of the east 100 block of Whaley Street.
Handicapped parking 
Appropriately marked and designated portions at various locations.
Sec. 97-136. Parking limits.
(a)   Parking in designated parking spaces within two-hour designated parking
zones in the city shall be limited to a continuous duration of two hours. It
shall be unlawful for any person to permit a vehicle to remain in any parking
space in a two-hour parking zone for a continuous period of time in excess of
two hours duration.
(b)   Parking in designated parking spaces within fifteen-minute designated
parking zones in the city shall be limited to a continuous duration of 15
minutes. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit a vehicle to remain in
any parking space in a fifteen-minute parking zone for a continuous period of
time in excess of 15 minutes duration.
(c)   Parking in designated parking spaces within the sheriff's department
designated parking zone in the city shall be limited exclusively to
appropriately marked or designated official law enforcement or emergency
vehicles only. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle other than
a permitted law enforcement or emergency vehicle in any parking space in the
sheriff's department parking zone.
(d)   Parking in spaces appropriately marked and designated as handicapped
shall be limited to vehicles bearing official handicapped motor vehicle
identification license tags. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a
vehicle not bearing an official handicapped motor vehicle identification tag in
any appropriately marked and designated handicapped parking space.
(e)   The provisions of this section shall apply and be effective between the
hours of 8 a.m. and 6 p.m. everyday, except Saturdays, Sundays and legal
holidays observed by the city.
(Ord. No. 2054, 12-14-89)
Sec. 97-137. Designation of parking spaces; vehicles to be parked within lines.
The Chief of Police shall have lines or appropriate markings painted upon the
curb or street designating individual parking spaces for the lawful parking of
vehicles within designated parking zones, and each vehicle shall be parked
within such lines or markings. It shall be unlawful for any person to park any
vehicle across or without any such lines or markings or to park a vehicle in
such a position that it shall not be entirely within the space designated by
such lines or markings.
Sec. 97-138. Loading zones in parking zones.
Whenever any curb loading zone is established in a parking zone pursuant to
Section 97-125 of this Code of Ordinances, said loading zones and the duration
for permitted parking therein shall be subject to the regulations of Section
97-125 contained herein.
Sec. 97-139. Injuring, tampering with meters.
It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, tamper with, remove,
open, break, destroy, impair or attempt to impair the usefulness of any parking
meter.
Sec. 97-140. Violation of parking regulations - Report required.
It shall be the duty of the police department of the city and its officers
therein acting in accordance with the instructions issued by the Chief of
Police, to report:
(1)   the general location of any vehicle parked within a designated parking
space in a regulated parking zone which is parked in violation of this division
of the Code of Ordinances.
(2)   the nature of such violation.
(3)   the state license number of such vehicle.
(4)   the time during which such vehicle was parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this division.
(5)   the date during which such violation has occurred.
(6)   the name of the investigating officer.
(7)   any other facts, a knowledge of which is necessary to a thorough
understanding of the circumstances attending such violation.
Sec. 97-141. Notice of violation to be attached to vehicle.
Each police officer shall attach to any vehicle found parked in violation of
this division a notice or citation to the owner or operator thereof that such
vehicle has been parked in violation of a provision of this division and
instructing such owner or operator as to the nature of said violation, the
penalties related thereto, and appropriate actions to be taken with respect to
said charge or violation.
(Ord. No. 1999, 12-8-88)
Sec. 97-142. Penalties.
A violation of Section 97-136(a) or Section 136(b) of the city code shall be
punishable by a fine of $7.00 if paid within ten calendar days of the
violation; otherwise the fine shall be $20.00.
A violation of Section 97-136(c) or Section 137 of the city code shall be
punishable by a fine of $15.00 if paid within ten calendar days of the
violation; otherwise the fine shall be $25.00.
A violation of Section 97-136(d), Section 138, or Section 139 of the city code
shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $200.00.
(Ord. No. 2240, 8-25-92; Ord. No. 2982, § 2, 12-14-00; Ord. No. 3358, § 2, 12-
9-04)
Secs. 97-143 - 97-154. Reserved.
Article VI.
Reserved
Secs. 97-155 - 97-162.    Reserved.
Article VII.
Photographic Traffic Signal Enforcement
Sec. 97-163.   Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicated or requires a different meaning.
   Department shall mean the Police Department of the City of Longview, Texas.
   Intersection shall mean the place or area where two or more streets
intersect.
   Municipal Court shall mean the civil municipal court of record established
in Chapter 28 of this Code or any successor to that court established by law.
   Owner shall mean the owner of a motor vehicle as shown on the motor vehicle
registration records of the Texas Department of Transportation or the analogous
department or agency of another state or country.
   Photographic Traffic Signal Enforcement System shall mean a system that:
   (1)   consists of a camera system and vehicle sensor installed to
exclusively work in conjunction with an electrically operated traffic control
signal; and,
   (2)   is capable of producing at least two recorded images that depict the
license plate attached to the front or the rear of a motor vehicle that is not
operated in compliance with the instruction of the traffic control signal.
   Recorded Image shall mean a photographic or digital image that depicts the
front or the rear of a motor vehicle.
   System Location shall mean the approach to an intersection toward which a
photographic traffic signal enforcement system is directed and in operation.
   Traffic Control Signal has the meaning assigned by Section 541.304 of the
Texas Transportation Code.
Sec. 97-164.   Imposition of civil penalty for violations.
(a)   The City Council finds and determines that a vehicle that proceeds into
an intersection when the traffic control signal for that vehicle’s direction of
travel is emitting a steady read signal damages the public by endangering motor
vehicle operators and pedestrians alike, by decreasing the efficiency of
traffic control and traffic flow efforts, and by increasing the number of
serious accidents to which public safety agencies must respond at the expense
of the taxpayers.
(b)   The owner of a motor vehicle commits a violation under this article if
the motor vehicle proceeds into an intersection at a system location when the
traffic control signal for that motor vehicle’s direction of travel is emitting
a steady red signal as specified by Section 544.007(d) of the Texas
Transportation Code. Except as provided in (c) and (d) below, the owner of a
motor vehicle is liable for a civil penalty of seventy-five dollars ($75.00)
for each violation under this article.
(c)   An owner who fails to timely pay the civil penalty shall be subject to a
late payment penalty of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
(d)   An owner who pays the amount due by check and whose check is rejected or
declined shall be subject to an additional fee of twenty-five dollars ($25.00).
Sec. 97-165.   Enforcement; procedures.
(a)   The department is responsible for the enforcement and administration of
this article.
(b)   To implement the photographic traffic signal enforcement system under
this article, the city may:
   (1)   contract for the administration and enforcement of the system as
provided in Section 707.003(a)(1) of the Texas Transportation Code, and
   (2)   install and operate the system or contract for the installation or
operation of the system as provided in Section 707.003(a)(2) of the Texas
Transportation Code.
(c)   In order to impose a civil penalty under this article, the department or
the designee of the department, shall mail a notice of violation to the owner
of the motor vehicle liable for the civil penalty not later than the 30th day
after the date the violation is alleged to have occurred to:
   (1)   the owner’s address as shown on the registration records of the Texas
Department of Transportation; or,
   (2)   if the vehicle is registered in another state or county, the owner’s
address as shown on the motor vehicle registration records of the department or
agency of the other state or county analogous to the Texas Department of
Transportation.
(d)   A notice of violation issued under this article shall contain the
following:
   (1)   a description of the violation alleged;
   (2)   the location of the intersection where the violation occurred;
   (3)   the date and time of the violation;
   (4)   the name and address of the owner of the vehicle involved in the
violation;
   (5)   the registration number displayed on the license plate of the vehicle
involved in the violation;
   (6)   a copy of the recorded image of the violation limited solely to a
depiction of the area of the registration number displayed on the license plate
of the vehicle involved in the violation;
   (7)   the amount of the civil penalty to be imposed for the violation;
   (8)   the number of days the person has in which to pay or contest the
imposition of the civil penalty and a statement that the person incurs a late
penalty if the civil penalty is not paid or imposition of the civil penalty is
not contested within that period;
   (9)   a statement that the owner of the vehicle named in the notice of
violation may elect to pay the civil penalty by mail sent to a specified
address instead of appearing at the time and place of the administrative
adjudication hearing;
   (10)   information that informs the owner of the vehicle named in the notice
of violation:
      a)   of the owner's right to contest the imposition of the civil penalty
against the person in an administrative adjudication;
      b)   that imposition of the civil penalty may be contested by submitting
a written request for an administrative adjudication hearing before the
expiration of the period specified;
      c)   that failure to pay the civil penalty or to contest liability for
the penalty in a timely manner is an admission of liability and a waiver of the
owner's right to appeal the imposition of the civil penalty; and
      d)   that failure to pay the civil penalty within the prescribed time
without timely contesting liability shall result in the imposition of a late-
payment fee.
   (11)   a statement that a recorded image is evidence in a proceeding for the
imposition of a civil liability;
   (12)   that the failure to timely pay the civil penalty may result in the
county assessor-collector or the Texas Department of Transportation to refuse
to register a motor vehicle alleged to have been involved in the violation; and
   (13)   any other information deemed necessary by the department.
(e)   A notice of violation under this article is presumed to have been
received on the 5th day after the date of notice of violation is mailed.
(f)   In lieu of issuing a notice of violation, the department may mail a
warning notice to the owner.
Sec. 97-166.   Administrative adjudication hearing.
(a)   A person who receives a notice of violation may contest the imposition of
the civil penalty by requesting in writing an administrative adjudication of
the civil penalty within thirty (30) days after the date the notice of
violation was mailed. Upon receipt of a timely request, the department shall
notify the person of the date and the time of the administrative adjudication
hearing, which shall be scheduled within thirty (30) days after the date of the
department's receipt of the request. The administrative adjudication hearing
shall be held before a hearing officer appointed by the city. Said hearing
officer shall have the authority to administer oaths and issue orders
compelling the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents.
(b)   The civil penalty, late fees and costs described in this article shall
not be assessed if after a hearing, the hearing officer enters a finding of no
liability.
(c)   Failure to pay a civil penalty or to contest liability in a timely manner
is an admission of liability in the full amount of the civil penalty assessed
in the notice of violation, and is a waiver of the right to appeal.
(d)   In an administrative adjudication hearing, the issues must be proved at
the hearing by a preponderance of the evidence. The reliability of the
photographic traffic signal enforcement system used to produce the recorded
image of the violation may be attested to in an administrative adjudication
hearing by affidavit of an officer or employee of the city or the entity with
which the city contracts to install or operate the system and who is
responsible for inspecting and maintaining the system. An affidavit of an
officer or employee of the city that alleges a violation based on an inspection
of the pertinent recorded image, is admissible in a proceeding under this
article and is evidence of the violation alleged in the notice of violation.
(e)   A person who is found liable after an administrative adjudication hearing
or who requests an administrative adjudication hearing and thereafter fails to
appear at the time and place of the hearing is liable for administrative
hearing costs in the amount of twenty-five dollars ($25.00) in addition to the
amount of the civil penalty assessed for the violation. A person who is found
liable for a civil penalty after an administrative adjudication hearing shall
pay the civil penalty and costs within thirty (30) days of the hearing.
(f)   It shall be an affirmative defense to the imposition of civil liability
under this article, to be proven by a preponderance of the evidence, that:
   (1)   the traffic control signal was not in proper position and sufficiently
legible to an ordinarily observant person;
   (2)   the operator of the motor vehicle was acting in compliance with the
lawful order or direction of a police officer, firefighter, or other person
authorized by local, state or federal law to direct or control traffic;
   (3)   the operator of the motor vehicle violated the instructions of the
traffic control signal so as to yield the right-of-way to an immediately
approaching authorized emergency vehicle;
   (4)   the motor vehicle was being operated as an authorized emergency
vehicle under Chapter 546 of the Texas Transportation Code and that the
operator was acting in compliance with that chapter;
   (5)   the motor vehicle was a stolen vehicle and being operated by a person
other than the owner of the vehicle without the effective consent of the owner;
   (6)   the license plate depicted in the recorded image of the violation was
a stolen plate and being displayed on a motor vehicle other than the motor
vehicle for which the plate had been issued;
   (7)   the presence of ice, snow, unusual amounts of rain or other unusually
hazardous road conditions existed and would make compliance with this article
more dangerous under the circumstances than non-compliance;
   (8)   the person who received the notice of violation was not the owner of
the motor vehicle at the time of the violation; or
   (9)   the person was arrested or issued a citation and notice to appear by a
peace officer for a violation of Section 544.007(d) of the Texas Transportation
Code.
(g)   To demonstrate that at the time of the violation the motor vehicle was a
stolen vehicle or the license plate displayed on the motor vehicle was a stolen
plate, or to rebut the presumption that the owner of the vehicle committed the
violation as provided for in Section 97-168, the owner must submit proof in the
form of an affidavit, through testimony at the administrative adjudication
hearing, or by a written declaration under penalty of perjury. If the motor
vehicle was stolen or the license plate displayed on the motor vehicle was a
stolen plate, then proof that the theft was timely reported to the appropriate
law enforcement agency must also be submitted at the time of the administrative
adjudication hearing. The affidavit or written declaration may be submitted by
mail to the city or the entity with which the city contracts for purposes of
this article.
(h)   Notwithstanding anything in this article to the contrary, a person who
fails to pay the amount of a civil penalty or to contest liability in a timely
manner is entitled to an administrative adjudication hearing on the violation
if:
   (1)   the person submits a written request for the hearing to the hearing
officer, accompanied by an affidavit that attests to the date on which the
person received the notice of violation; and
   (2)   the written request and affidavit are submitted to the hearing officer
within 30 days after the person received the notice of violation.
(i)   A person who is found liable after an administrative adjudication hearing
may appeal that finding of civil liability to a judge of the municipal court by
filing an appeal petition with the clerk of the municipal court accompanied by
payment of fifty dollars ($50.00) and a notarized statement of personal
financial obligation. The notice of appearance must be filed on or before the
31st day after the date on which the hearing officer entered the finding of
liability for the civil penalty.
   (1)   The municipal court clerk shall schedule a hearing and notify the
owner of the motor vehicle and the department of the date, time and location of
the hearing.
   (2)   An appeal stays enforcement and collection of the civil penalty
imposed against the owner of the motor vehicle until the matter is adjudicated
by the municipal court.
   (3)   An appeal under this section shall be determined by the court by trial
de novo. All evidence submitted at the administrative hearing shall be admitted
at the trial, along with any additional relevant evidence.
Sec. 97-167.   Order.
(a)   The hearing officer at any administrative hearing under this article
shall issue an order stating:
   (1)   whether the person charged with the violation is liable for the
violation; and
   (2)   the amount of any civil penalty, cost, or fee assessed against the
person.
(b)   The orders issued under subsection (a) must be signed and dated by the
hearing officer and may be filed with the City Secretary, who shall keep the
orders in a separate index and file. The orders may be recorded using
microfilm, microfiche, or electronic data processing techniques.
Sec. 97-168.   Presumptions.
(a)   It is presumed that the owner of the motor vehicle committed the
violation alleged in the notice of violation mailed to the person if the motor
vehicle depicted in a photograph or digital image taken by a photographic
traffic signal enforcement system belongs to the owner of the motor vehicle.
(b)   If, at the time of the violation alleged in the notice of violation, the
motor vehicle depicted in a photographic or digital image taken by a
photographic traffic enforcement system was owned by a person in the business
of selling, renting, or leasing motor vehicles, or by a person who was not the
person named in the notice of violation, the presumption under subsection (a)
is rebutted on the presentation of evidence establishing that the vehicle was
at the time:
   (1)   being test driven by another person;
   (2)   being rented or leased by the vehicle's owner to another person; or
   (3)   owned by a person who was not the person named in the notice of
violation.
(c)   The presentation of evidence under subsection (b) by a person who is in
the business of selling, renting, or leasing motor vehicles or did not own the
vehicle at the time of the violation must be made by affidavit, through
testimony at the administrative adjudication hearing, or by a written
declaration under penalty of perjury. The affidavit or written declaration may
be submitted by mail to the city or the entity with which the city contracts
for purposes of this ordinance.
(d)   If the presumption established by subsection (a) is rebutted under
subsection (b), a civil penalty may not be imposed on the owner of the vehicle
or the person named in the notice of violation, as applicable.
(e)   If at the time of the violation alleged in the notice of violation, the
motor vehicle depicted in the photograph or digital image taken by the
photographic traffic signal enforcement system was owned by a person in the
business of renting or leasing motor vehicles and the vehicle was being rented
or leased to an individual, the owner of the motor vehicle shall provide to the
city or the entity with which the city contracts for purposes of this
ordinance, the name and address of the individual who was renting or leasing
the motor vehicle depicted in the photograph or digital image and a statement
of the period during which that individual was renting or leasing the vehicle.
The owner shall provide the information required by this subsection not later
than the 30th day after the date the notice of violation is received. If the
owner provides the required information, it is presumed that the individual
renting or leasing the motor vehicle committed the violation and the city or
contractor may send a notice of violation to that individual at the address
provided by the owner of the motor vehicle.
Sec. 97-169.   Effect of liability; exclusion of civil remedy.
(a)   The imposition of a civil penalty under this article is not a criminal
conviction for any purpose. The failure to pay a civil penalty may not be
reported to a credit bureau as defined by Section 392.001 of the Texas Finance
Code.
(b)   A civil penalty may not be imposed under this article on the owner of a
motor vehicle if the operator of the vehicle was arrested or was issued a
citation and notice to appear by a peace officer for the same violation of
Section 544.007(d) of the Texas Transportation Code.
(c)   An owner who fails to pay the civil penalty or to timely contest
liability for the penalty is considered to admit liability for the full amount
of the civil penalty stated in the notice of violation mailed to the person.
(d)   The City Attorney is authorized to file suit to enforce collection of any
civil penalties, fees and costs imposed under this article.
(e)   Failure to pay the civil penalty or to contest liability in a timely
manner constitutes an admission of liability in the full amount of the civil
penalty and fees stated in the notice of violation and a waiver of the right to
appeal the imposition of such civil penalty and fee. The failure to appear at
an administrative adjudication hearing after having requested a hearing in a
timely manner constitutes an admission of liability in the full amount of the
civil penalty, fees and costs, as stated in the notice of violation and a
waiver of the right to appeal the imposition of such civil penalty, fees and
costs.
Sec. 97-170.   Use of funds.
(a)   Not later than the 60th day after the end of the city's fiscal year,
after deducting the amounts the city is authorized by subsection (b) to retain,
the city shall:
   (1)   send 50 percent (50%) of the revenue derived from civil or
administrative penalties collected by the city under this section to the
Comptroller for deposit to the credit of the regional trauma account
established under Section 782.002 of the Texas Health and Safety Code; and,
   (2)   deposit the remainder of the revenue in a special account in the
city's treasury that may be used only to fund traffic safety programs,
including pedestrian safety programs, public safety programs, intersection
improvements, and traffic enforcement.
(b)   The city may retain an amount necessary to cover the costs of:
   (1)   purchasing or leasing equipment that is part of or used in connection
with the photographic traffic signal enforcement system in the city;
   (2)   installing the photographic traffic signal enforcement system at sites
in the city, including the costs of installing cameras, flashes, computer
equipment, loop sensors, detectors, utility lines, data lines, poles and
mounts, networking equipment, and associated labor costs;
   (3)   operating the photographic traffic signal enforcement system in the
city, including the costs of creating, distributing, and delivering violation
notices, review of violations conducted by city employees, the processing of
fine payments and collections, and the costs associated with administrative
adjudications and appeals; and
   (4)   maintaining the general upkeep and functioning of the photographic
traffic signal enforcement system.
(Ord. No. 3479, § 2, 10-19-06; Ord. No. 3549, § 2, 10-25-07)
Chapters 98 - 99
Reserved 
Chapter 100
Trailers, Mobile Homes and Trailer Parks
Article I. In General
Sec.
100-1.    Definitions.
Sec.
100-2.   Water and sewer facilities.
Sec.
100-3.   Location.
Sec.
100-4.   Sewerage connections.
Sec.
100-5.   Plans to be approved.
Secs.
100-6 - 100-50. Reserved.
Article II. Licensing and Minimum Standards for Mobile Home Parks and Travel
Trailer Parks
Division 1. Generally
Sec.
100-51.   Definitions.
Sec.
100-52.   Penalty.
Secs.
100-53 - 100-60. Reserved.
Division 2. License
Sec.
100-61.   Requirements; applications; compliance with article.
Sec.
100-62.   Revocation.
Secs.
100-63 - 100-70. Reserved.
Division 3. Location
Sec.
100-71.   Generally.
Secs.
100-72 - 100-80. Reserved.
Division 4. Area Requirements
Sec.
100-81.   Generally.
Sec.
100-82.   Site drainage requirements.
Sec.
100-83.   Park areas for nonresident uses.
Sec.
100-84.   Required separation between mobile homes.
Sec.
100-85.   Required recreation areas.
Sec.
100-86.   Required setbacks; buffer strips and screening.
Sec.
100-87.   Park street system and car parking.
Secs.
100-88 - 100-100. Reserved.
Division 5. Water
Sec.
100-101. General requirements.
Sec.
100-102. Water distribution system.
Sec.
100-103. Individual water-riser pipes and connection.
Secs.
100-104 - 100-110.    Reserved.
Division 6. Sewage Disposal
Sec.
100-111.  General requirements.
Sec.
100-112.  Sewer lines.
Sec.
100-113.  Individual sewer connections.
Sec.
100-114.  Sewage treatment and/or discharge.
Secs.
100-115 - 100-120.   Reserved.
Division 7. Electrical Distribution System
Sec.
100-121.  General requirements.
Sec.
100-122.  Power distribution lines.
Sec.
100-123.  Individual electrical connections.
Sec.
100-124.  Required grounding.
Secs.
100-125 - 100-130.   Reserved.
Division 8. Service Building and Other Community Service Facilities
Sec.
100-131.  General.
Sec.
100-132.  Required community sanitary facilities for travel trailer parks.
Sec.
100-133.  Structural requirements for buildings.
Sec.
100-134.  Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves and incinerators.
Secs.
100-135 - 100-140.   Reserved.
Division 9. Refuse Handling
Sec.
100-141.  Storage.
Sec.
100-142.  Distance from lot.
Sec.
100-143.  Refuse collection stands.
Sec.
100-144.  Collection.
Secs.
100-145 - 100-150.   Reserved.
Division 10. Fuel Supply and Storage
Sec.
100-151.  Natural gas system.
Secs.
100-152 - 100-160.   Reserved.
Division 11. Fire Protection
Sec.
100-161.  Trash and flammable materials.
Sec.
100-162.  Fire extinguishers.
Sec.
100-163.  Fires.
Secs.
100-164 - 100-170.   Reserved.
Division 12. Miscellaneous Requirements
Sec.
100-171.  Responsibilities of the park management.
Sec.
100-172.  Responsibilities of park occupants.
Secs.
100-173 - 100-180.   Reserved.
Division 13. Additional Construction
Sec.
100-181. Other buildings.
Article I.
In General
Sec. 100-1. Definitions.
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Construction camps. The term “construction camps” shall mean any property
which is used as a location for temporary cabins or barracks to be used for
residences or business by any person or persons.
   Tent camps. The term “tent camps” shall mean any property on which is
located tents or canvas-constructed dwellings, to be used for residence or
business purposes by any person or persons.
   Trailer camps. The term “trailer camps” shall mean any property which is
used as a location for an automobile trailer, or trailer which is, or are, used
as a place of residence or business, whether temporary or permanent, by any
person or persons, and whether such trailer or trailers, be upon wheels, jacks
or affixed to the earth.
(Code 1943, Art. 31-1; Ord. No. 3525, § 41, 6-14-07)
Sec. 100-2. Water and sewer facilities.
It shall, hereafter be unlawful for any owner or lessee of any tourist camp,
trailer camp, tent camp, construction camp or similar establishment, to own,
rent or operate the same in the city without providing, first, an adequate
water supply, approved by the city health officer, sewerage disposal
connection, garbage and refuse disposal, and sanitary precautions, all in
conformity with the ordinances of the city, and the laws of the state.
(Code 1943, Art. 31-2)
Sec. 100-3. Location.
All cabins, trailers, tents and other inhabited buildings of such
establishments located on the premises shall be constructed to comply with all
of the ordinances of the city, and there shall be a space of 20 feet between
each row or tier of such improvements and the ground shall be well drained. No
such cabin, trailer, tent or other unit on such premises shall be located
nearer than 20 feet in each direction from such other unit.
(Code 1943, Art. 31-3)
Sec. 100-4. Sewerage connections.
Each of such establishments shall provide at least one sewerage connection for
each 15 persons of any sex, which said connections shall be maintained in
accordance with the ordinances of the city, and in separate buildings for each
sex.
(Code 1943, Art. 31-4)
Sec. 100-5. Plans to be approved.
Before erecting and maintaining any tourist camp, trailer camp, tent camp,
construction camp or any other form of establishment for occupancy of vehicles
or persons, a plan of the same, including the plan for water supply and
sewerage, garbage and refuse disposal shall be reduced to writing and submitted
to the plumbing inspector and health officer of the city, and no such
establishment shall be erected and offered for occupancy until such plans have
been approved and signed by such authorities.
(Code 1943, Art. 31-5)
Secs. 100-6 - 100-50. Reserved.
Article II.
Licensing and Minimum Standards for Mobile Home Parks and Travel Trailer Parks
Division 1.
Generally
Sec. 100-51. Definitions.
For the purposes of this article, the following words, terms and phrases shall
have the meanings herein set out:
   Driveway means a minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on a
mobile home lot or used for common access to a small group of lots.
   License means a written license issued by the City Secretary allowing a
person to operate and maintain a mobile home park or travel trailer park under
the provisions of this article and regulations issued hereunder.
   Mobile home means a manufactured, transportable, single-family dwelling unit
eight feet or more wide and 30 feet or more long, suitable for year around
occupancy and containing water supply, waste disposal, and electrical
conveniences.
   Mobile home lot means a parcel of land for the placement of a single mobile
home and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   Mobile home park means a parcel of land which has been developed for the
placement of two or more mobile homes.
   Mobile home stand means that part of an individual lot which has been
reserved for the placement of one mobile home unit.
   Natural or artificial barrier means any river, pond, canal, railroad, levee,
embankment, fence or hedge.
   Person means any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association
or corporation.
   Park street means a private way which affords principal means of access to
individual mobile home lots.
   Travel trailer means a temporary dwelling for travel or recreation built on
a chassis eight feet or less wide and 30 feet or less long and designed to move
on the highway.
   Travel trailer lot means a parcel of land for the placement of a single
travel trailer and the exclusive use of its occupants.
   Travel trailer park means a parcel of land which has been developed for the
temporary placement of two or more travel trailers.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-52. Penalty.
Any person violating any provision of this article shall be fined not more than
$200.00 for each offense. Each day that a violation is committed or is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-53 - 100-60. Reserved.
Division 2.
License
Sec. 100-61. Requirements; applications; compliance with article.
(a)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain within the
city limits of the City of Longview, Texas, any mobile home park or travel
trailer park unless such person shall first obtain a license therefor.
(b)   Application for original license shall be in writing, signed by the
applicant and shall contain the following:
   (1)   the name and residence address of the applicant.
   (2)   the exact location and a legal description of the park.
   (3)   a complete site development plan of the park, showing the following:
      a.   the area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      b.   the number, location and size of all mobile home or travel trailer
lots;
      c.   the location and width of roadways and walkways;
      d.   the location of water and sewer lines;
      e.   plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse and sewage
disposal facilities;
      f.   plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the park; and
      g.   the location and details of lighting and electrical systems.
(c)   Application for renewal of license shall be made in writing by the holder
of the license and shall specifically contain any change in the information
submitted in connection with the initial application.
(d)   Applications for the original license shall be filed in triplicate with
the City Secretary. Before taking action on such application, the City Council
shall submit the same to the city Planning and Zoning Commission for its
recommendation and report. If the applicant is found to be of good moral
character and the mobile home and/or travel trailer park found to be in
compliance with all provisions of this article and all other applicable
ordinances, statutes and regulations of this city and of the State of Texas,
the City Council may approve the application, and in the case of proposed
parks, make such approval contingent upon the completion of the park according
to the plans and specifications submitted with the application. The City
Secretary, at the direction of the City Council, shall issue the license.
(e)   The owner of any mobile home park or travel trailer park in existence
upon the effective date of this article shall, prior to the first day of July,
1970, make application for license as required in Section 100-61(b).
(f)   Existing mobile home parks or travel trailer parks within the city limits
shall have five (5) years from the effective date of this article to comply
with all provisions of this article with exception of Section 100-71(a).
(g)   The owner of any mobile home park or travel trailer park presently
situated outside of the city limits of the City of Longview, Texas, whose park
shall be taken into the said city limits subsequent to the passage of this
article shall make application for license within sixty (60) days from the date
of annexation and shall, within two (2) years from the date of annexation,
fully comply with the terms and provisions of this article with exception of
Section 100-71(a).
(h)   Upon application for a transfer of the license, the City Council may
issue a transfer. Such original license and transfer thereof, may be granted at
any time during the year, and shall expire at midnight, September 30, unless
previously revoked or terminated.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-62. Revocation.
The City Council may revoke any license to maintain and operate a mobile home
park or travel trailer park in the event any of the provisions of this article
are violated. Before such license may be revoked, the City Council shall hold a
hearing to determine whether such license shall be revoked. The City Secretary
shall give notice of such hearing to such licensee in writing by depositing a
copy of such notice in the United States Mail, postage prepaid at the address
stated for such licensee in his application for license. The license may be
reissued only if the circumstances leading to the revocation of such license
have been remedied and the park is being operated and maintained in full
compliance with this article and all other applicable laws.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-63 - 100-70. Reserved.
Division 3.
Location
Sec. 100-71. Generally.
(a)   Mobile home parks or travel trailer parks may be located only in
conformity with the comprehensive zoning ordinance of the city, and in addition
to the requirements contained therein, each boundary of the park must be at
least 200 feet from any permanent residential building located outside the
park, unless separated therefrom by a natural or artificial barrier, or unless
a majority of the property owners according to area within 200 feet from the
property line of such park consent in writing to the establishment of the park;
provided, however, that provisions of this section shall not apply to mobile
home and/or travel trailer parks already in existence, and in operation at the
time of the passage of this article, and such existing and operating parks
shall be treated as non-conforming use insofar as the requirements of this
section are concerned.
(b)   It shall be unlawful for any person to locate and maintain for dwelling
or sleeping purposes any mobile home or travel trailer in any place in the city
other than a duly licensed mobile home park or travel trailer park.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-72 - 100-80. Reserved.
Division 4.
Area Requirements
Sec. 100-81. Generally.
(a)   Mobile home lots shall have a minimum area of 3000 square feet and a
minimum width of 35 feet.
(b)   Travel trailer lots shall have a minimum area of 1500 square feet and a
minimum width of 25 feet.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-82. Site drainage requirements.
The ground surface in all parts of every mobile home park shall be graded and
equipped to drain all surface water in a safe, efficient manner.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-83. Park areas for nonresident uses.
No part of any park shall be used for nonresidential purposes, except such uses
that are required for the direct servicing and well being of park residents and
for the management and maintenance of the park.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-84. Required separation between mobile homes.
(a)   Mobile homes shall be separated from each other and from other buildings
and structures by at least 20 feet; provided that mobile homes placed end-to-
end may have a clearance of ten feet where opposing rear walls are staggered.
(b)   An accessory structure such as an awning, cabana, storage cabinet,
carport, windbreak, and porch which has a floor area exceeding 25 square feet
and has an opaque top or roof shall, for purposes of all separation
requirements, be considered to be part of the mobile home.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-85. Required recreation areas.
(a)   In all parks accommodating or designed to accommodate 25 or more mobile
homes, there shall be one or more recreation areas which shall be easily
accessible to all park residents.
(b)   The size of such recreation areas shall be based upon a minimum of 100
square feet for each lot. No outdoor recreation area shall contain less than
2,500 square feet.
(c)   Recreation areas shall be so located as to be free of traffic hazards and
should, where the topography permits, be centrally located.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-86. Required setbacks; buffer strips and screening.
(a)   All mobile homes shall be located at least 25 feet from any park property
boundary line abutting upon a public street or highway and at least 15 feet
from other park property boundary lines.
(b)   There shall be a minimum distance of ten feet between the mobile home
stand and abutting park street.
(c)   All mobile home parks located adjacent to industrial or commercial land
uses shall be provided with screening such as fences or natural growth along
the property boundary line separating the park and such adjacent nonresidential
uses.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-87. Park street system and car parking.
(a)   General requirements. All mobile home parks shall be provided with safe
and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to each
mobile home lot. Such process shall be provided by streets, driveways or other
means.
(b)   Park entrance. Entrances to mobile home parks shall be designed to
minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent
streets. No parking shall be permitted on the park entrance street for a
distance of 100 feet from its point of beginning, unless the park entrance is
at least 36 feet wide.
(c)   Internal streets. Roadways shall be of adequate width to accommodate
anticipated traffic, and in any case shall meet the following minimum
requirements:
   (1)   all streets except minor streets (from back of curb to back of curb if
provided): 25 feet.
   (2)   minor streets (acceptable only if less than 500 feet long and serving
less than 25 mobile homes or any length if mobile home lots abut on one side
only): 18 feet.
   (3)   dead end streets shall be limited in length to 1,000 feet and shall be
provided at the closed end with a turn-around having an outside roadway
diameter of at least 60 feet.
(d)   Car parking. Off-street parking areas or on-street parking lanes shall be
provided for the use of park occupants and guests. Such areas shall be:
   (1)   furnished at a rate of at least 1.25 car spaces for each mobile home
lot.
   (2)   located within a distance of 200 feet from the mobile home to be
served, unless other vehicular access is provided. The minimum street width
requirement under Section 100-87(c) shall be increased by seven feet if on-
street parking is the only type of car parking provided in a mobile home park.
(e)   Required illumination of park street systems. All parks shall be
furnished with lighting units so spaced and equipped with luminaries placed at
such mounting heights as will provide illumination for the safe movement of
pedestrians and vehicles at night.
(f)   Park street construction and design standards. The minimum quality of
park street paving shall be that presently or hereafter required for public
streets and roadways within the city.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-88 - 100-100. Reserved.
Division 5.
Water
Sec. 100-101. General requirements.
An accessible, adequate, safe and potable supply of water shall be provided in
each mobile home park. Where a public supply of water of satisfactory quantity,
quality, and pressure is available at the site or at the boundary of the site,
connection shall be made thereto, and its supply used exclusively. When a
satisfactory public water supply is not available, a private water supply
system may be developed and used as approved by the health authority.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-102. Water distribution system.
(a)   The water supply system of the mobile home park shall be connected by
pipes to all mobile homes, buildings, and other facilities requiring water.
(b)   All water piping, fixtures and other equipment shall be constructed and
maintained in accordance with state and local regulations and requirements and
shall be of a type and in locations approved by the city.
(c)   The water piping system shall not be connected with non-potable or
questionable water supplies and shall be protected against the hazards of
backflow or back siphonage.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-103. Individual water-riser pipes and connection.
(a)   Individual water riser pipes shall be located within the confined area of
the mobile home stand at a point where the water connection will approximate a
vertical position.
(b)   Water riser pipes shall extend at least four inches above ground
elevation. The pipe shall be at least three-quarter inch. The water outlet
shall be capped when a mobile home does not occupy the lot.
(c)   Adequate provisions shall be made to prevent freezing of service lines,
valves and riser pipes and to protect risers from heaving and thawing actions
found during freezing weather. Surface drainage shall be diverted from the
location of riser pipe.
(d)   A shutoff valve below the frost line shall be provided near the water
riser pipe on each mobile home lot.
(e)   Underground stop and waste valves shall not be installed on any water
service.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-104 - 100-110.   Reserved.
Division 6.
Sewage Disposal
Sec. 100-111. General requirements.
An adequate and safe sewage system shall be provided in all mobile home parks
for conveying and disposing of all sewage. Such system shall be designed,
constructed and maintained in accordance with state and local laws.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-112. Sewer lines.
All sewer lines shall be located in trenches of sufficient depth to be free of
breakage from traffic or other movements and shall be separated from the park
water supply at a safe distance. Sewers shall be at a grade which will insure a
velocity of two feet per second when flowing full. All sewer lines shall be
constructed of materials approved by the city, shall be adequately vented, and
shall have watertight joints.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-113. Individual sewer connections.
(a)   Each mobile home stand shall be provided with at least a four-inch
diameter sewer riser pipe. The sewer riser pipe shall be located on each stand
so that the sewer connection to the mobile home drain outlet will approximate a
vertical position.
(b)   The sewer connection from the drain outlet of the mobile home to the
sewer riser pipe shall have a nominal inside diameter of at least three inches,
and the slope of any portion thereof shall be at least one-fourth inch per
foot. The sewer connection shall consist of one pipe line only without any
branch fittings. All joints shall be watertight.
(c)   All materials used for sewer connections shall be semirigid, corrosive
resistant, nonabsorbent and durable. The inner surface shall be smooth.
(d)   Provision shall be made for plugging the sewer riser pipe when a mobile
home does not occupy the lot. Surface drainage shall be diverted away from the
riser. The rim of the riser pipe shall extend at least four inches above ground
elevation.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-114. Sewage treatment and/or discharge.
Where the sewer lines of the mobile home park are not connected to a public
sewer, all proposed sewage disposal facilities shall be approved by the city
health officer prior to construction. Effluents from sewage treatment
facilities shall not be discharged into any waters of the state except with
prior approval of the health authority.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-115 - 100-120.   Reserved.
Division 7.
Electrical Distribution System
Sec. 100-121. General requirements.
Every park shall contain an electrical wiring system consisting of wiring,
fixtures, equipment and appurtenances which shall be installed and mainlined in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-122. Power distribution lines.
(a)   Main power lines not located underground shall be suspended at least 18
feet above the ground. There shall be a minimum horizontal clearance of three
feet between overhead wiring and any mobile home, service building or other
structure.
(b)   All direct burial conductors or cable shall be buried at least 18 inches
below the surface and shall be insulated and specially designed for the
purpose. Such conductors shall be located not less than one foot radial
distance from water, sewer, gas or communication lines.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-123. Individual electrical connections.
(a)   Each mobile home lot shall be provided with an approved disconnecting
device and over-current protective equipment. The minimum service per outlet
shall be 120-240 volts, AC, 50 amperes.
(b)   Outlets (receptacles or pressure connectors) shall be housed in a
weatherproof outlet box, and shall be located no more than 25 feet from the
over-current protective device in the mobile home. A three-pole, four-wire
grounding type shall be used.
(c)   Receptacles, if provided, shall be in accordance with American Standard
outlet receptacle C-73-1.
(d)   Connectors, if not substituted by more than one receptacle, shall be
provided where the calculated load of the mobile home is more than 50 amperes.
(e)   The mobile home shall be connected to the outlet box by an approved type
of flexible supply cord with a male attachment plug or with pressure
connectors.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-124. Required grounding.
All exposed non-current carrying metal parts of mobile homes and all other
equipment shall be grounded by means of an approved grounding conductor with
branch circuit conductors or other approved method of grounded metallic wiring.
The neutral conductor shall not be used as an equipment ground for mobile homes
or other equipment.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-125 - 100-130.   Reserved.
Division 8.
Service Building and Other Community Service Facilities
Sec. 100-131. General.
The requirements of this section shall apply to service buildings, recreation
buildings and other community service facilities such as:
(1)   management offices, repair shops and storage areas;
(2)   sanitary facilities;
(3)   laundry facilities;
(4)   indoor recreation areas.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-132. Required community sanitary facilities for travel trailer parks.
Every travel trailer park shall be provided with the following sanitary
facilities:
(1)   for each 15 travel trailer lots or a fractional part thereof, there shall
be two flush toilets and one lavatory for each sex; and
(2)   the building containing such sanitary facilities shall be accessible to
all travel trailers.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-133. Structural requirements for buildings.
(a)   All portions of the structure shall be properly protected from damage by
ordinary uses and by decay, corrosion, termites and other destructive elements.
Exterior portions shall be of such materials and be so constructed and
protected as to prevent entrance or penetration of moisture and weather.
(b)   All rooms containing sanitary or laundry facilities shall:
   (1)   have sound resistant walls extending to the ceiling between male and
female sanitary facilities. Walls and partitions around showers, bathtubs,
lavatories and other plumbing fixtures shall be constructed of dense,
nonabsorbent, waterproof material or covered with moisture resistant material.
   (2)   have at least one window or skylight facing directly to the outdoors.
The minimum aggregate gross area of windows for each required room shall be not
less than ten percent of the floor area served by them.
   (3)   have at least one window which can be easily opened, or a mechanical
device which will adequately ventilate the room.
(c)   Toilets shall be located in separate compartments equipped with self-
closing doors. Shower stalls shall be of the individual type. The rooms shall
be screened to prevent direct view of the interior when the exterior doors are
open.
(d)   Hot and cold water shall be furnished to every lavatory, sink, bathtub,
shower and laundry fixture, and cold water shall be furnished to every water
closet and urinal.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-134. Barbecue pits, fireplaces, stoves and incinerators.
Cooking shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, wood burning stoves and
incinerators shall be so located, constructed, maintained and used as to
minimize fire hazards and smoke nuisance both on the property on which used and
on neighboring property. No open fire shall be permitted except in facilities
provided. No open fire shall be left unattended. No fuel shall be used and no
material burned which emits dense smoke or objectionable odors.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-135 - 100-140.   Reserved.
Division 9.
Refuse Handling
Sec. 100-141. Storage.
The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the mobile home park shall be
conducted as to create no health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
areas, accident or fire hazards or air pollution.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-142. Distance from lot.
All refuse shall be stored in airtight, watertight, rodent proof containers,
which shall be located not more than 150 feet from any mobile home lot.
Containers shall be provided in sufficient number and capacity to properly
store all refuse and shall be enclosed by adequate fence or shrubbery.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-143. Refuse collection stands.
Refuse collection stands shall be provided for all refuse containers. Such
container stands shall be so designed as to prevent containers from being
tipped, to minimize spillage and container deterioration and to facilitate
cleaning around them.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-144. Collection.
All refuse containing garbage shall be collected at least twice weekly. Where
suitable collection service is not available from municipal or private
agencies, the mobile home park operator shall provide this service. All refuse
shall be collected and transported in covered vehicles or covered containers.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-145 - 100-150.   Reserved.
Division 10.
Fuel Supply and Storage
Sec. 100-151. Natural gas system.
(a)   Liquified petroleum gas systems shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations governing such systems.
(b)   Systems shall be provided with safety devices to relieve excessive
pressures and shall be arranged so that the discharge terminates at a safe
location.
(c)   Systems shall have at least one accessible means for shutting off gas.
Such means shall be located outside the mobile home and shall be maintained in
effective operating condition.
(d)   All LPG piping outside of the mobile homes shall be well supported and
protected against mechanical injury. Undiluted liquified petroleum gas in
liquid form shall not be conveyed through piping equipment and systems in
mobile homes.
(e)   Liquified petroleum gas containers installed on a mobile home lot shall
be securely but not permanently fastened to prevent accidental overturning.
Such containers shall not be less than 12 nor more than 60 U.S. gallons gross
capacity.
(f)   No liquified petroleum gas vessel shall be stored or located inside or
beneath any storage cabinet, carport, mobile home, or any other structure
unless such installations are approved by the health authority.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-152 - 100-160.   Reserved.
Division 11.
Fire Protection
Sec. 100-161. Trash and flammable materials.
Mobile home parks shall be kept free of litter, rubbish and other flammable
materials.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-162. Fire extinguishers.
Portable fire extinguishers rated for classes B and C fires shall be kept in
service buildings and at other locations conveniently and readily accessible
for use by all occupants and shall be maintained in good operating condition.
Their capacity shall not be less than 2 1/2 pounds.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-163. Fires.
Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators and other equipment intended
for such purposes.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-164 - 100-170.   Reserved.
Division 12.
Miscellaneous Requirements
Sec. 100-171. Responsibilities of the park management.
(a)   The person to whom a license for a mobile home park is issued shall
operate the park in compliance with this article and shall provide adequate
supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment in good repair
and in a clean and sanitary condition.
(b)   The park management shall notify park occupants of all applicable
provisions of this article and inform them of their duties and responsibilities
under this article.
(c)   The park management shall supervise the placement of each mobile home on
its mobile home stand which includes securing its stability and installing all
utility connections.
(d)   The park management shall maintain a register containing the following
information:
   (1)   name and address of each occupant.
   (2)   the make, model, year, name of owner, license number and state issuing
such license of all automobiles and mobile homes or travel trailers.
   (3)   the date of arrival and date of departure of each mobile home or
travel trailer. The park shall keep this register available for inspection at
all times by law enforcement officers, public health officials and other
officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in
the register. The register records shall not be destroyed for a period of two
years following date of registration.
(e)   The park management shall notify the health authority immediately of any
suspected communicable or contagious disease within the park.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Sec. 100-172. Responsibilities of park occupants.
(a)   The park occupant shall comply with all applicable requirements of this
article and shall maintain his mobile home lot, its facilities and equipment in
good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
(b)   The park occupant shall be responsible for proper placement of his mobile
home on its mobile home stand and proper installation of all utility
connections in accordance with the instructions of the park management.
(c)   Pets, if permitted in the park, shall be prohibited to run at large or to
commit any nuisance within the limits of any mobile home lot.
(d)   Skirtings, porches, awnings and other additions shall be installed only
if permitted and approved by the park management. When installed, they shall be
maintained in good repair. The space immediately underneath the mobile home
shall be used for storage only if permitted by the park management. I f
permitted, the following conditions shall be satisfied:
   (1)   the storage area shall be provided with a base of impervious material.
   (2)   stored items shall be located so as not to interfere with the
underneath inspection of the mobile home.
   (3)   the storage area shall be enclosed by skirting.
(e)   The park occupant shall store and dispose of all his rubbish and garbage
in a clean, sanitary and safe manner. The garbage container shall be rodent
proof, insect proof, and watertight.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Secs. 100-173 - 100-180.   Reserved.
Division 13.
Additional Construction
Sec. 100-181. Other buildings.
It shall be unlawful for any person operating a mobile home and/or travel
trailer park or occupying a mobile home or travel trailer to construct or
permit to be constructed in such park, or in connection with such mobile home
or travel trailer, any additional structure, building or shelter in connection
with or attached to a mobile home or travel trailer, except however, awnings of
canvas or metal, suitably constructed, may be attached to said mobile home or
travel trailer, as well as portable, prefabricated temporary rooms for the
express purpose of increasing mobile home or travel trailer living area,
commonly called "cabana," which meets the following requirements:
(1)   the same shall be constructed of metal only, fire resistant, double-
walled, mechanical joint panels. (No welded joints between panels shall be
permitted.)
(2)   the strength of materials and structure shall meet the minimum standards
of the city building code.
(3)   such structure shall be capable of being dismantled when moved.
(4)   such room shall be completely dismantled and removed from the site at the
time the mobile home or travel trailer to which it is accessory is moved.
(5)   the finish and appearance shall as nearly as possible, resemble the
mobile home or travel trailer to which it is an accessory.
(6)   the length of any additional construction shall not exceed the length of
the mobile home or travel trailer to which it is accessory.
(7)   only one such room per mobile home or travel trailer shall be permitted.
(Ord. No. 711, 11-11-69)
Chapters 101 - 102
Reserved
Chapter 103
Vehicles for Hire
Article I. In General
Secs.
103-1 - 103-10.   Reserved.
Article II.   Reserved
Secs.
103-11 - 103-28. Reserved.
Article III. Transportation for Hire
Sec.
103-29.   Purpose.
Sec.
103-30.   Definitions.
Sec.
103-31.   Exclusions.
Sec.
103-32.   Powers and duties of Administrator.
Sec.
103-33.   Service of notice.
Sec.
103-34.   Operating authority permit required.
Sec.
103-35.   Application for operating authority permit.
Sec.
103-36.   Operating authority permit issuance and renewal.
Sec.
103-37.   Denial, suspension or revocation of operating authority permit.
Sec.
103-38.   Surrender of operating authority permit.
Sec.
103-39.   Intoxication and substance abuse policy.
Sec.
103-40.   Driver requirements.
Sec.
103-41.   Access to information.
Sec.
103-42.   Transportation-for-hire vehicle standards.
Sec.
103-43.   City-wide transportation-for-hire service.
Sec.
103-44.   Non-discrimination; accessibility.
Sec.
103-45.   Towing and impounding.
Sec.
103-46.   Electronic payment methods.
Sec.
103-47.   Rates and fares.
Sec.
103-48.   Property left in transportation-for-hire vehicles.
Sec.
103-49.   Insurance requirements.
Sec.
103-50.   Indemnity.
Sec.
103-51.   Offenses.
Sec.
103-52.   Enforcement.
Article IV. Wrecker Business Regulations
Sec.
103-61.   Definitions.
Sec.
103-62.   Scope.
Sec.
103-63.   Towing by vehicle other than wrecker.
Sec.
103-64.   Permit required; application.
Sec.
103-65.   Equipment and storage facility required.
Sec.
103-66.   Sworn application and permit fee required.
Sec.
103-67.   Insurance.
Sec.
103-68.   Issuance and expiration of permits.
Sec.
103-69.   Inspection of wrecker equipment.
Sec.
103-70.   Towing fees
Sec.
103-71.   Wrecker rotation list; operations.
Sec.
103-72.   Storage fees/charges.
Sec.
103-73.   Records.
Sec.
103-74.   Dispatch of rotation wreckers.
Sec.
103-75.   Police officer not to influence selection of wrecker service.
Sec.
103-76.   Driving wreckers to scene of collision prohibited; exceptions.
Sec.
103-77.   Duties of permit holders.
Sec.
103-78.   Administrative dispositions of violations.
Sec.
103-79.   Procedures for administrative disposition of violations; appeals.
Sec.
103-80.   Penalty.
Sec.
103-81.   Application of conflicting ordinances.
Sec.
103-82.   Severability.
Article I.
In General
Secs. 103-1 - 103-10. Reserved.
Article II.
Reserved
Secs. 103-11 - 103-28. Reserved.
Article III.
Transportation for Hire
Sec. 103-29. Purpose.
This article is adopted for the purposes of protecting the public health and
safety, promoting public convenience and necessity, and supporting consumer
protection in the transportation-for-hire service industry.
(Ord. No. 4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-30. Definitions. 
In this article the following words and terms shall have the scope and meaning
hereinafter defined and set out in connection with each:
Administrator. The individual designated by the City Manager to perform the
duties and exercise the authority of the Administrator under this article.
City Attorney. The City Attorney of the City of Longview.
City Manager. The City Manager of the City of Longview or the individual
designated by the City Manager to perform the duties and exercise the authority
of the City Manager under this article.
Compensation. Any money, service, or other thing of value that is received, or
is to be received, in return for consideration from the recipient, including
without limitation consideration in the form of services.
Drive. To control the physical movements of a motor vehicle.
Driver. An individual who drives for purposes of providing transportation-for-
hire service.
Driver Identification card. The identification card required by this article
for an individual to act as a driver.
Entity. An individual; a corporation; a government or governmental subdivision;
or an agency, trust, partnership, or two (2) or more individuals having a joint
or common economic interest.
Governmental entity. The government of the United States or a branch or agency
of the United States government, the government of the State of Texas or a
branch or agency of the government of the State of Texas, and any political
subdivision of the State of Texas, including without limitation the city, Gregg
County, Harrison County, the East Texas Council of Governments and any
independent public school district.
Individual. A human being.
Motor vehicle. A motorized device in, upon, or by which any individual is or
may be transported upon a street.
Operating authority. An entity that arranges for a driver to provide
transportation-for-hire service. The term "operating authority" includes,
without limitation, an entity that employs drivers, such as a traditional taxi
service, as well as an intity that owns, operates or maintains a
transportation-for-hire app or otherwise conveys potential passengers' requests
for transportation-for-hire service to drivers, regardless of whether the
drivers are employees of the entity and regardless of whether the
transportation-for-hire vehicle is owned, leased or unowned by the entity.
Operating authority permit. The permit required by this article for an entity
to act as an operating authority.
Operating authority's driver. A driver performing transportation-for-hire
service on behalf of or in connection with an operating authority, regardless
of whether the driver is an employee of the operating authority and regardless
of whether the transporation-for-hire vehicle used by the driver is owned,
leased or unowned by the operating authority. The term "operating authority's
driver" includes, without limitation, any driver who is an employee of an
operating authority and any driver to whom an operating authority conveys
potential passengers' requests for transportation-for-hire service by means of
a transportation-for-hire app operated, owned or maintained b the operating
authority or by other means of communication operated, owned or maintained by
the operating authority.
Operating authority's website. Any and all websites through which an operating
authority accepts requests for transportation-for-hire service or through which
an operating authority provides information to users or potential users of
transportation-for-hire service provided by the operating authority or by the
operating authority's drivers.
Payor. The individual delivering payment for transportation-for-hire service.
Street. Any street, alley, avenue, boulevard, thoroughfare, roadway, drive,
public way, or highway commonly used for the purpose of public travel within
the city.
Transportation-for-hire app. A website or other means of communication
specifically marketed to users as a means to summon drivers to provide
transportation-for-hire service, regardless of whether said means of
communication summons a driver by direct communication to the driver or by
communicating through an operating authority or through an entity acting on
behalf of an oeprating authority.
Transportation-for-hire service. The transporation of passengers for
compensation.
Transportation-for-hire vehicle. Any motor vehicle used to offer or provide
transportation-for-hire service.
Website. A remotely accessible data site, digital platform, or software
application that provides content in a manner that is accessible to the public
through a digital network such as the Internet.
Wheelchair accessible vehicle. A motor vehicle designed or modified to
transport passengers in wheelchairs or other mobility devices and conforming to
the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amneded.
Each of the terms defined in this section may be used in the plural as
appropriate to the context.
(Ord. No. 4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-31. Exclusions.
This article does not apply to the following:
(a)   Transportation provided by a motor vehicle owned, leased or contracted by
a governmental entity while said motor vehicle is providing transportation
services for or on behalf of the governmental entity;.
(b)    Any voluntary sharing of transportation without compensation;
(c)   The transportation of passengers by a motor vehicle from a point outside
of the city to destination inside the city if the motor vehicle leaves the city
without receiving a passenger inside the city and the entity providing the
transportation service is licensed by a governmental entity other than the city
to provide transportation-for-hire service;
(d)   The transportation of passengers picked up from a location outside the
city and transported to a location outside the city, only incidentally passing
through the city;
(e)   A fixed-route transportation-for-hire service that provides
transportation to and from destinations outside the city if all of the
following are true:
   (i)   the transportation-for-hire vehicles used to provide the service stop
at a designated point inside the city at designated times for purposes of
discharging and receiving passengers;
   (ii)   the transportation-for-hire vehicles used to provide the service do
not provide on-demand transportation-for-hire service; and
   (iii)   the entity providing the transportation-for-hire service is licensed
by a governmental entity other than the city to provide said transportation-
for-hire service;
(f)   Transportation provided by vehicles that are not motor vehicles;
(g)   Transportation provided by a motor vehicle that has a manufacturer's
rated seating capacity of more than fifteen (15) passengers;
(h)   Transportation provided by a motor vehicle that is not used to transport
passengers for compensation and is operated by or for a business that provides
free transportation to customers as an accessory to the main business activity;
(i)   Ambulance transportation, emergency medical transportation, transfer
medical transportation, and other medical transportation;
(j)   The towing of motor vehicles and any transportation provided incident to
such towing;
(k)   Transportation provided by a motor vehicle operated for a funeral home in
the performance of funeral services;
(l)   Transportation provided by a motor vehicle provided by an employer or
employee association for use in transporting an employee between the employee's
home and the employer's place of business or between workstations, with the
employee reimbursing the employer or employee association in an amount
calculated only to offset the reasonable expenses of operating the motor
vehicle;
(m)   Transportation provided by a motor vehicle owned by a nonprofit
organization and carrying only passengers associated with that organization, if
no compensation is received from any other entity for carrying the passengers.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-32. Powers and duties of Administrator.
(a)   The Administrator shall enforce this article and may designate additional
individuals, as approved by the City Manager, to enforce this article.
(b)   The Administrator may adopt procedures to administer this article.
(c)   The Administrator may inspect any transportation-for-hire vehicle to
determine whether the transportation-for-hire vehicle complies with this
article and all other applicable law.
(d)   For the sole purpose of verifying that an operating authority is in
compliance with the requirements of this article and no more frequently than
annually, the Administrator shall have the right to visually inspect a sample
of records that the operating authority is required to maintain. The sample
shall be chosen randomly in a manner agreeable to both parties.
(e)   In response to a specific complaint against any driver or operating
authority, the Administrator is authorized to inspect records held by the
driver or the operating authority that are necessary to investigate and resolve
the complaint. The operating authority and the Administrator shall endeavor to
have the inspection take place at a mutually agreed location within the city or
submitted electronically. Any record furnished to the Administrator may exclude
information that would tend to identify specific drivers or passengers unless
the identity of a driver or passenger is relevant to the complaint.
(f)   If any records inspected by the Administrator under this article are
designated as proprietary or confidential by an operating authority and are the
subject of a request under the Texas Public Information Act, then the city
shall notify the operating authority as required by the Texas Public
Information Act and shall seek an opinion from the Texas Attorney General as to
the confidentiality of any information designated as proprietary or
confidential by the operating authority.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-33. Service of notice.
(a)   An operating authority shall designate and maintain a representative to
receive service of any notice required under this article.
(b)   Notice required under this article:
   (i)   May be personally served by the Administrator on an operating
authority, or on the operating authority's designated representative;
   (ii)   May be personally served at or sent by the United States Certified
Mail, Return Receipt Requested, to the address last know to the Administrator
of the operating authority or of the operating authority's designated
representative; or
   (iii)   May be sent by electronic mail to the electronic mail address last
known to the Administrator of the operating authority or of the operating
authority's designated representative.
(c)   Notice required under this article to be given to an entity other than an
operating authority or an operating authority's designated representative may
be served in the manner prescribed by subsection (b).
(d)   Service executed in accordance with this section constitutes notice to
the entity to whom the notice is addressed. The date of service for notice that
is mailed is three (3) days after the date of mailing.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-34. Operating authority permit required.
(a)   An entity shall not act as an operating authority within the city without
a valid operating authority permit.
(b)   An entity shall not advertise nor cause to be advertised transportation-
for-hire service for which the entity does not have a valid operating authority
permit when the advertisement is published to be seen by individuals seeking
transportation-for-hire service in the city.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-35. Application for operating authority permit.
The applicant for an operating authority permit must be the entity who will
own, control or operate the transportation-for-hire service. The individual
signing the application for an operating authority permit must be an individual
with legal authority to bind the entity who will own, control or operate the
transportation-for-hire service, and each such application is legally binding
upon the entity who will own, control or operate the transportation-for-hire
service. Each application for an operating authority permit shall be made upon
the form required by the Administrator, and that form must, at a minimum,
require the following:
(a)   The name, address and verified signature of the individual submitting the
application on behalf of the operating authority.
(b)   Trade or other fictitious name, if any, under which the applicant does or
proposes to do business.
(c)   If a governmental entity other than the city has ever suspended or
revoked a certification, license, permit or other permission held by the
applicant that was required for the applicant to provide or arrange for drivers
to provide transportation-for-hire service, then the applicant shall provide a
complete statement of the circumstances surrounding the suspension or
revocation.
(d)   The location and description of the place(s) from which the operating
authority will operate.
(e)   If motor vehicles used for transportation-for-hire service are owned and
operated exclusively by the operating authority, a list of all motor vehicles
in the operating authority's fleet and proof of current registration for each
motor vehicle.
(f)   Valid documentary evidence from an insurance company authorized to do
business in Texas indicating a willingness to provide liability insurance as
required by this article.
(g)   Proof applicant has resolved any outstanding citations and is current on
all taxes and fees owed to the city, where applicable.
(h)   Payment in a form acceptable to the Administrator of the total amount of
the fees for the entire term.
(i)   The agreement of the operating authority that, in the event an operating
authority permit is granted, the operating authority will give the city at
least thirty (30) days advance written notice of discontinuance of the
transportation-for-hire service for which the operating authority permit is
granted.
(j)   If the operating authority is, or proposes or intends to do business as a
corporation:
   (i)   Corporate name;
   (ii)   Place and date of incorporation;
   (iii)   Name and address of the corporate registered agent.
(k)   If the operating authority is, or proposes or intends to do business as a
partnership or association:
   (i)   Name of partnership or association;
   (ii)   Names and addresses of all partners or associates, limited or
general.
(l)   Such additional information as the Administrator reasonably considers
necessary to assist or promote the enforcement of this article.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-36. Operating authority permit issuance and renewal.
(a)   An operating authority permit may be issued for any period not to exceed
three (3) years ending on September thirtieth (30th). The Administrator may
place such conditions on an operating authority permit as may be reasonably
necessary to achieve the purposes of this article.
(b)   An operating authority may apply for a renewal of up to three (3) years
at least thirty (30) days before the expiration of the operating authority
permit. To obtain renewal, the operating authority must prove that:
   (i)   The operating authority has complied with the terms of the operating
authority permit; and
   (ii)   The operating authority continues to comply with all applicable
requirements of this code and of state and federal law.
(c)   A new operating authority permit is required upon sale or transfer of
ownership of an operating authority and upon sale or transfer of the right to
operate a transportation-for-hire service.
(d)   The fees for an operating authority permit shall be as established by
resolution of the City Council. All fees for the complete term of an operating
authority permit are due upon original application and upon each renewal
thereafter.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-37. Denial, suspension or revocation of operating authority permit.
(a)   An operating authority permit may be denied, suspended, or revoked upon
any of the following:
   (i)   Making a false statement or omission as to a material matter in the
application for an operating authority permit;
   (ii)   Failure to comply with any provision of this article;
   (iii)   Failure to comply with any applicable city ordinance;
   (iv)   Failure to comply with any condition imposed by the Administrator on
the operating authority permit;
   (v)   Final conviction for violation of another city, state or federal law
that indicates a lack of fitness of the operating authority to perform a
transportation-for-hire service;
   (vi)   Allowing a driver who does not comply with the requirements of this
article to provide transportation-for-hire service;
   (vii)   Failure to pay any city taxes or other fees due in connection with
property used in the transportation-for-hire service or any fees required in
connection with this article; or
   (viii)   Failure to comply with any applicable federal or state law relating
to the accommodation of individuals with disabilities or relating to
discrimination against customers or employees.
(b)   Before suspending or revoking an operating authority permit that has
already been issued, the city shall notify the operating authority in writing
and provide a reasonable length of time to correct the violation. The length of
time allowed may vary from seventy-two (72) hours to ten (10) days. If the
violation is not satisfactorily corrected, the Administrator may suspend or
revoke the oeprating authority permit.
(c)   Every denial, suspension or revocation of an operating authority permit
shall be in writing, dated and shall state the reason for such action. Notice
of said denial, suspension, or revocation shall be provided to the applicant if
an operating authority permit is denied or to the operating authority if an
operating authority permit is suspended or revoked. The applicant or operating
authority, as the case may be, may submit to the Administrator a written
request for a hearing to show cause as to why the operating authority permit
should be granted or should not be suspended or revoked. Such request must be
submitted within ten (10) business days after the date of the notice required
by this subsection. The submission of such a request shall not stay the denial,
suspension or revocation. The City Council shall conduct a public hearing on
said request within thirty (30) days of the date on which the Administrator
first receives the written request. The Administrator shall provide notice of
the date, time and place of said hearing to the applicant or operating
authority, as the case may be, at least seventy-wto (72) hours in advance of
the hearing. Following the hearing, the City Council shall render a decision
granting or denying the application, or reinstating, suspending, or revoking
the operating authority permit, as the case may be.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-38. Surrender of operating authority permit.
Whenever an operating authority permit is suspended, revoked, or denied
renewal, the operating authority holding that operating authority permit shall
turnover said operating authority permit to the Administrator immediately upon
the effective date of the suspension, revocation or denial. The operating
authority shall immediately communicate notice of said suspension, revocation,
or denial to all of the oeprating authority's drivers, and to all employees,
contractors, and agents of the operating authority.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-39. Intoxication and substance abuse policy.
An operating authority shal adopt, maintain, and enforce a policy prohibiting
each of the operating authority's drivers from using or driving under the
influence of intoxicating substances while the operating authority's driver is
on duty. Information on how passengers may report a possible violation of the
policy to the operating authority and the city shall be made available
electronically or upon request.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-40. Driver requirements.
(a)   An operating authority shall ensure that all the operating authority's
drivers comply with all applicable provisions of this article.
(b)   A driver shall not drive a transportation-for-hire vehicle without a
driver identification card issued to the driver by the operating authority on
behalf of which or in connection with which the driver provides transportation-
for-hire service. A driver identification card may be issued in either physical
or electronic form.
(c)   Each driver identification card shall contain, at a minimum, the driver's
full name, the driver's photograph, the operating authority's name, and a means
to contact the operating authority.
(d)   While a driver is providing transportation-for-hire service, the driver
shall ensure that the driver identification card and license plat number is
displayable to every passenger in the driver's transportation-for-hire vehicle
or through the operating authority's website.
(e)   An operating authority shall not issue a driver identification card to a
driver unless the operating authority has a valid operating authority permit.
(f)   An operating authority shall not issue a driver identification card to a
driver who does not comply with the requirements of this article. An operating
authority shall revoke the driver identification card of any driver who does
not comply with the requirements of this article.
(g)   An operating authority shall not allow a driver to drive a
transportation-for-hire vehicle on behalf of or in connection with that
operating authority if the operating authority knows or should know that the
driver does not have a driver identification card.
(h)   An operating authority shall have a nationally accredited third party
background check provider conduct a local, state, and national criminal
background check for each individual applying to be a driver for the operating
authority.
(i)   An operating authority shall not issue a driver identification card ot an
individual and shall not permit an individual to accept requests for
transportation-for-hire service through the operating authority's
transportation-for-hire app or to provide transportation-for-hire service if
the individual:
   (i)   Has had more than three moving violations in the prioer three-year(3-
year) period, or one of the following major violations in the prior three-year
(3-year) period:
      (1)   Attempting to evade the police;
      (2)   Reckless driving; or
      (3)   Driving on a suspended or revoked license;
   (ii)   Has been convicted of or placed on deferred adjudication, within the
past seven (7) years, for:
      (1)   Any felony; or
      (2)   Misdemeanor driving while intoxicated, hit and run, or any other
driving related offense or any misdemeanor violent offense or sexual offense;
   (iii)   Is a match in the U.S. Department of Justice National Sex Offender
Public Website;
   (iv)   Has been convicted of criminal homicide or any other offense
described in Chapter 19 of the Texas Penal Code or has been convicted of an
equivalent offense in another jurisdiction;
   (v)   Has been convicted of any offense described in Chapter 49 of the Texas
Penal Code involving serious bodily injury and/or death or has been convicted
of an equivalent offense in another jurisdiction;
   (vi)   Does not possess a valid driver's license;
   (vii)   Does not possess proof of registration for each transportation-for-
hire vehicle used by the driver;
   (viii)   Does not possess proof of automobile liability insurance for each
transportation-for-hire vehicle used by the driver;
   (ix)   Is not a least 18 years of age; or
   (x)   Is in violation of any provision of this article.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-41. Access to information.
(a)   Any law enforcement officer investigating a criminal case may request
driver or operating authority information from the operating authority in
emergency situations where an individual is in danger of bodily injury, serious
bodily injury, or death. The operating authority must respond immediately. This
information must include all information relevant to the investigation. The law
enforcement agency will follow up with a warrant or subpoena when practical. In
other criminal cases not involving emergency situations law enforcement will
provide the correct means to gather the information and the operating authority
must respond either verbally or in writing within twenty-four (24) hours.
(b)   If any records inspected under this section are designated as proprietary
or confidential by an operating authority and are the subject of a request
under the Texas Public Information Act, then the city shall notify the
operating authority as required by the Texas Public Information Act and shall
seek an opinion from the Texas Attorney General as to the confidentiality of
any information designated as proprietary or confidential by the operating
authority.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-42. Transportation-for-hire vehicle standards.
(a)   Each transportation-for-hire vehicle shall comply with the following
standards:
   (i)   Possess a valid registration issued by the State of Texas;
   (ii)   Comply with all applicable motor vehicle inspection requirements of
Texas law;
   (iii)   Possess valid insurance coverage that complies with all applicable
motor vehicle insurance requirements of this article and Texas law; and
   (iv)   Comply with all applicable motor vehicle safety and equipment
standards required by Texas law.
(b)   In each operating authority permit application and in each application
for renewal of an operating authority permit, an applicant or operating
authority, as the case may be, must attest to the Administrator that every
transportation-for-hire vehicle to be covered by the operating authority permit
complies with each and every one of the standards set forth in this section.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-43. City-wide transportation-for-hire service.
(a)   An operating authority shall ensure that the operating authority's
drivers offer transportation-for-hire service to every portion of the city.
(b)   An operating authority shall not permit the operating authority's drivers
to refuse a ride request based on point of origin, destination, or length of
trip.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-44. Non-discrimination; accessibility.
(a)   An operating authority shall comply with all applicable laws regarding
non-discrimination against passengers or potential passengers.
(b)   Each driver shall comply with all applicable laws regarding non-
discrimination against passengers or potential passengers.
(c)   Each operating authority and the operating authority's drivers shall
comply with all applicable laws relating to the American Disabilities Act and
related acts, and the accommodation of service animals.
(d)   An operating authority shall not impose additional charges for providing
services to individuals with disabilities because of those disabilities. A
driver shall not impose additional charges for providing services to
individuals with disabilities because of those disabilities.
(e)   Each operating authority and each driver shall provide each potential
passenger an opportunity to indicate whether the passenger requires a
wheelchair-accessible vehicle. If an operating authority cannot provide or
arrange for the provision of a wheelchair-accessible vehicle in any instance,
the operating authority shall direct the potential passenger to an alternate
provider who is able to provide or arrange the provision of a wheelchair-
accessible vehicle if such a provider is available.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-45. Towing and impounding.
A transportation-for-hire vehicle may be towed and impounded if the
Administrator determines that the transportation-for-hire vehicle:
(a)   Is not operating under an operating authority permit required by this
article; or
(b)   Does not have in effect the insurance coverage required by this article.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-46. Electronic payment methods.
(a)   If electronic payment methods are used by payors, an operating authority
and the operating authority's drivers must allow fares to be paid by credit
card, debit card, and other commonly accepted means of electronic payment.
(b)   When accepting an electronic payment, an operating authority or driver
must use a secure processing method that encrypts information transmitted to
authenticate the payment transaction for approval.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-47. Rates and fares.
(a)   An operating authority shall inform the payor of the rate to be charged
for the transportation-for-hire service before the transportation-for-hire
service is provided.
(b)   An operating authority must disclose the operating authority's rates for
transportation-for-hire service on the operating authority's website.
(c)   An operating authority or the operating authority's driver shall provide
the payor with a legible receipt at the time of payment. The receipt must
contain the following information:
   (i)   The date and time of the trip;
   (ii)   The fare rate, where applicable;
   (iii)   The total fare;
   (iv)   An itemization showing how the fare was calculated, where applicable;
   (v)   The trip distance (if the fare was based in whole or in part on
distance);
   (vi)   The duration of the trip in minutes (if the fare was based in whole
or in part on time);
   (vii)   The name of the operating authority and a means of contacting the
operating authority under which the driver was operating at the time of the
ride and a means of contacting the operating authority with any complaints;
   (viii)   The driver's name.
(d)   The receipt may be submitted to the payor electronically.
(e)   An operating authority or the operating authority's driver may not quote,
charge, or attempt to charge a fare higher than the fare disclosed to the
passenger prior to the trip or calculated based on the operating authority's
published rates for transportation-for-hire vehicles.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-48. Property left in transportation-for-hire vehicles.
Each driver shall promptly return all luggage, merchandise, or other property
left in the driver's transportation-for-hire vehicle by a passenger. If the
owner of such property is not known or is uncertain, the driver shall promptly
turn over the items to the police department.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-49. Insurance requirements.
(a)   An operating authority shall ensure that each of the operating
authority's drivers at all times complies with all applicable insurance
requirements of Texas law including, without limitation, the insurance
requirements of Chapter 601 of the Texas Transportation Code.
(b)   Any operating authority meeting the definition of a "transportation
network company" as defined under Texas Insurance Code Chpater 1954, shall
comply with all applicable requirements of that chapter.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-50. Indemnity.
BY ACCEPTANCE OF AN OPERATING AUTHORITY PERMIT, EACH OPERATING AUTHORITY AGREES
TO AND SHALL INDEMNIFY AND HOLD HARMLESS THE CITY FROM AND AGAINST ALL
LIABILITY AND CLAIMS ARISING OUT OF THE OPERATING AUTHORITY'S ACTIVITIES.
NOTHING IN THIS ARTICLE SHALL BE CONSTRUED AS OBLIGATING THE OPERATING
AUTHORITY TO INDEMNIFY THE CITY FOR THE NEGLIGENCE OR MISCONDUCT OF THE CITY.
NOTHING IN THIS ARTICLE SHALL BE CONSTRUED AS OBLIGATING THE OPERATING
AUTHORITY TO INDEMNIFY ANY PARTY OTHER THAN THE CITY.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-51. Offenses.
(a)   An entity commits an offense if the entity violates any provision of this
article.
(b)   An operating authority commits an offense if the operating authority
allows or arranges for an individual to drive for purposes of providing
transporation-for-hire service if the individual is not in compliance with all
provision of this article applicable to drivers. Each instance in which an
operating authority allows or arranges for an individual to drive for purposes
of providing transportation-for-hire service if the individual is not in
compliance with all provisions of this artice shall constitute a separate
offense.
(c)   An individual commits an offense if the individual drives for purposes of
providing transportation-for-hire service while the individual is not in
compliance with all provisions of this article applicable to drivers. Each
instance in which an individual drives for purposes of providing
transportation-for-hire service and is not in compliance with one or more
provisions of this article shall contitute a separate offense.
(d)   An entity commits an offense if the entity acts as an operating authority
without a currently valid operating authority permit. An operating authority
permit that has been suspended, revoked or denied in invalid during the period
of such suspension, revocation or denial.
(e)   An entity commits an offense if the entity falsely certifies, requests
another to falsely certify, or causes another to falsely certify that a
transportation-for-hire vehicle complies with the applicable provisions of this
article.
(f)   An entity commits an offense if the entity fails to provide any of the
information that the entity is required to provide by this article.
(g)   An entity commits an offense if the entity provides or causes another to
provide false information as information that the entity is required to provide
by this article.
(h)   A driver commits an offense if the driver knowingly transports any
passenger for any illegal or unlawful purpose.
(i)   An entity commits an offense if the entity fails to comply with any
conditions placed on the entity's operating authority permit by the
Administrator.
(j)   A driver commits an offense if the driver uses a motor vehicle to provide
transportation-for-hire service within the city and the motor vehicle does not
comply the transportation-for-hire vehicle standards required under this
article, including without limitation the standards set forth in Sec. 103-42 of
this article. Each instance in which a driver uses a motor vehicle to provide
transportation-for-hire service within the city and the motor vehicle does not
comply the transportation-for-hire vehicle standards required under this
article shall constitute a separate offense.
(k)   An operating authority commits an offense if the operating authority
allows the operating authority's driver to use a motor vehicle to provide
transportation-for-hire service within the city and the motor vehicle does not
comply the transportation-for-hire vehicle standards required under this
article, including without limitation the standards set forth in Sec. 103-42 of
this article. Each instance in which an operating authority allows the
operating authority's driver to use a motor vehicle to provide transportation-
for-hire service within the city and the motor vehicle does not comply the
transportation-for-hire vehicle standards required under this article
constitutes a separate offense.
(l)   A driver commits an offense if, while providing transportation-for-hire
service, the driver transports more passengers during one trip than the number
of seatbelt equipped seating positions in the transportation-for-hire vehicle.
Each instance in which a driver transports more passengers during one trip than
the number of seatbelt equipped seating positions in the transportation-for-
hire vehicle constitutes a separate offense.
(m)   An operating authority commits an offense if the operating authority
allows the operating authority's driver, while providing transportation-for-
hire service, to transport more passengers during one trip than the number of
seatbelt equipped seating positions in the transportation-for-hire vehicle.
Each instance in which an operating authority allows the operating authority's
driver, while providing transportation-for-hire service, to transport more
passengers during one trip than the number of seatbelt equipped seating
positions in the transportation-for-hire vehicle constitutes a separate
offense.
(n)   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this article, each day an
offense defined by this article shall continue, or be permitted to continue,
shall be deemed a separate offense.
(o)   Each offense defined by this article is a criminal offense subject to a
penalty as set forth in Sec. 1- 4 of the Longview City Code.
(p)   Unless otherwise specifically set forth in this article or in state law
as adopted, allegation and evidence of culpable mental state are not required
for the proof of an offense defined by this article.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Sec. 103-52. Enforcement.
(a)   The Administrator, all individuals designated by the Administrator to
enforce this article, and all peace officers of the Longview Police Department
are authorized to enforce this article. Any peace officer licensed by the State
of Texas may issue a citation for any violation of this article.
(b)   The City Attorney or the City Attorney's designee is hereby authorized to
take such action as may be necessary, in the City Attorney's reasonable
discretion, to enforce the provisions of this article and to punish, prevent or
abate any violation of this article. Such action may include, but is not
limited to, bringing litigation, seeking an injunction or restraining order,
seeking any civil penalty allowed by law, seeking any monetary damages or other
monetary awards allowed by law, filing or prosecuting criminal charges, and
seeking any other remedy or combination of remedies available to the city at
law or in equity. No further action of the City Council shall be necessary to
authorize the City Attorney to take any action authorized by this subsection.
(Ord. No.4088, § 2, 12-8-16)
Article IV.
Wrecker Business Regulations
Sec. 103-61. Definitions.
   Accident. Any collision between two or more vehicles or a vehicle and
another object, which renders a motor vehicle unsafe to be driven upon the
streets.
   Chief of Police. The Chief of Police for the City of Longview, or the person
designated by him to act in his stead for the purposes of the article.
   City. The City of Longview, Texas.
   Disabled. The status of any vehicle which had been rendered unsafe to be
driven upon the streets as the result of some occurrence other than a wreck,
including, but not limited to, mechanical failures or breakdowns, fire, the
elements, or vandalism, so as to reasonably necessitate that such vehicle be
removed by a wrecker or tow truck.
   Heavy duty tow truck. A motor vehicle equipped with a mechanical device used
to tow, winch, or otherwise move another vehicle and which is registered as a
tow truck under the provisions of Chapter 643 of the Texas Transportation Code,
as amended, and said vehicle has a manufacturer’s gross vehicle rating of not
less than 48,000 pounds.
   Light duty tow truck.  A motor vehicle equipped with a mechanical device
used to tow, winch, or otherwise move another vehicle and which is registered
as a tow truck under the provisions of the Texas Transportation Code and said
vehicle has a manufacturer’s gross vehicle rating of not less than 10,000
pounds and not more than 47,999 pounds, has a single rear axle with a minimum
of four functional rear tires.
   Motor vehicle. Any motor driven or propelled vehicle, including motorcycles,
required to be registered under the laws of the State of Texas.
   Nonconsensual tow. The towing of a disabled vehicle, or vehicle that has
been involved in an accident, whose owner or operator is unable, fails, or
refuses to designate a wrecker service to remove the vehicle.
   Owner.  Any person who holds the legal title to a motor vehicle, or has the
legal right of possession thereof. This does not include any person who has
gained possession of a motor vehicle only as a result of wrecker services
performed.
   Permit. Authorization granted by the city under the provisions of this
article to tow wrecked or disabled vehicles from the public streets.
   Permit holder. Any person possessing a current, valid permit to tow wrecked
or disabled vehicles from the public streets.
   Person. An individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, or an
association.
   Police pull.  The designation of the occasion when the public safety
communications department or the Police Department has called a wrecker company
from the wrecker rotation list to either remove a vehicle that has been
involved in an accident, or disabled vehicle or to remove a vehicle in a safe
driving condition, but the owner is not present, refuses, or is unable or is
not permitted to drive or to make authorizations.
   Rotation. The designation of the occasion when the owner of a vehicle that
has been involved in an accident, or disabled vehicle fails to designate a
specific repair place or wrecker operator to remove the owner’s vehicle and the
owner has authorized the police department to call a wrecker from the wrecker
rotation list.
   Storage facility. The site to which a permit holder tows and stores motor
vehicles which meets the requirements of state and federal statutory law.
   Street. Any street, alley, avenue, lane, public place, square or highway
within the corporate limits of the city.
   Tow truck. A motor vehicle equipped with a mechanical device used to tow,
winch, or otherwise move another vehicle and which is registered as a tow truck
under the provisions of Texas Transportation Code.
   Vehicle. Every device in, or upon, or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon a public highway, including, but not limited
to, motor vehicles, but not including devices moved only by human power, or
used exclusively on stationary rails or tracks.
   Wrecker. Any motor vehicle used for the purpose of towing or removing
vehicles.
   Wrecker business. The business of towing vehicles not belonging to the
towing wrecker company on a public street within the incorporated limits of the
City of Longview for compensation, or with the expectation of compensation,
including, but not limited to, compensation for towing, storage and repair.
   Wrecker company. Any person engaged in the wrecker business.
   Wrecker rotation list. A list prepared in accordance with the provisions of
this article, of wrecker companies which have permits and have requested and
qualified to appear thereon. A separate list shall be maintained for light duty
wreckers and heavy duty wreckers.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00; Ord. No. 3294, § 2, 2-12-04)
Sec. 103-62. Scope.
The prohibitions and requirements of this chapter shall apply to all vehicles
abandoned or disabled on public right-of-way and all accidents occurring on a
street, regardless of whether or not the final resting place of a vehicle is
upon a street immediately after the accident.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-63. Towing by vehicle other than wrecker.
Vehicles may be pushed or towed by another vehicle other than a permitted
wrecker or tow truck only when they do not reasonably require removal by a
wrecker or tow truck and only when such may be done in a safe and legal manner,
and such removal is excluded from all coverage of this chapter except Section
103-76 concerning solicitation.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-64. Permit required; application.
(a)   A wrecker company which desires to tow or remove wrecked or disabled
vehicles from the public streets of Longview at the call or upon request of the
police communications center or its authorized agent shall obtain a permit from
the city and register each tow truck to be used in nonconsensual towing with
the city.
(b)   An applicant for a permit shall submit, on a form provided by the city, a
verified application containing or accompanied by the following:
   (1)   the true name, the trade name, location and mailing address, and
telephone number or numbers of the towing entity;
   (2)   the name, date of birth and home address of the applicant if a sole
proprietorship;
   (3)   the name, date of birth and home address of each partner if the
applicant is a partnership;
   (4)   the name, date of birth and home address of each corporate officer, if
the applicant is a corporation;
   (5)   the location of applicant's storage facility and a photocopy of the
Texas license for the facility;
   (6)   a certificate of liability insurance issued by a company authorized to
do business in the State of Texas which identifies coverage in the amounts
required under state law; and
   (7)   for each wrecker the applicant intends to utilize for police pulls:
      a.   its make, model, size and model year;
      b.   its vehicle identification number;
      c.   its Texas license plate number;
      d.   its Texas tow truck license plate number; and
      e.   a photocopy of its certificate of registration issued by the Texas
Department of Transportation.
(c)   No permit shall be transferred or assigned from any person to another.
    When any change of ownership or change of controlling interest occurs, the
prior permit shall be null and void.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-65. Equipment and storage facility required.
An applicant for a permit or permit renewal shall own or lease:
(a)   Wreckers:
   (1)   Three light duty tow trucks for wrecker companies on the light duty
wrecker list and one heavy duty tow truck for wrecker companies on the heavy
duty wrecker list.
   (2)   Each tow truck must be equipped with two-way communications equipment
that will facilitate communications between the tow truck and the tow truck's
dispatch unit, office or messaging center.
   (3)   Each wrecker shall carry as standard equipment the following: a
minimum of one functional rotating emergency beacon light; three safety
reflectors; one broom; one scoop shovel; trash container; heavy-duty steel
chains (not less than 5/16 inch links); one heavy-duty tie rope (1/4 inch
nylon); one dry chemical fire extinguisher (one ten pound or two each, two five
pound dry chemical fire extinguishers); one minimum 8,000 pound mechanical or
hydraulic winch; a back-up and hook-up light; safety towing lights as required
by state law.
(b)   Storage facility:
   Applicant must own or have use of a storage facility licensed under
applicable state statute.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-66. Sworn application and permit fee required.
Every application or renewal shall be sworn to by the applicant or permit
holder. Additionally, in accordance with Texas Transportation Code Section
643.201, every application or renewal shall be accompanied by payment of a fee
for each vehicle registered to perform nonconsensual tows within the city for
any year or part of a year. Said fee shall be as set by resolution of the City
Council. Only permitted companies and registered tow trucks which are current
as to their permits and registration shall be allowed to perform nonconsensual
tows in the city.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00; Ord. No. 2956, § 17, 9-7-00; Ord. No. 3053, § 45,
8-9-01)
Sec. 103-67. Insurance.
All wrecker companies having permits shall carry insurance in the amounts
required by the Texas Transportation Code.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-68. Issuance and expiration of permits.
(a)   The city shall issue a permit to all applicants complying with the
provisions of this article unless legal grounds exist for denying such a
permit.
(b)   Each permit shall expire at midnight on December 31 of the calendar year
of issuance, and will be renewable only upon compliance with the provisions of
this article and any other applicable laws, ordinances or regulations which
should be in effect at the time of renewal application. Any person seeking a
renewal of a permit for the next calendar year may apply for a renewal between
November 15 and December 15 of the calendar year in which the permit was
issued. Renewed permits shall become effective January 1 of the next calendar
year.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-69. Inspection of wrecker equipment.
Any permit holder or applicant, by virtue of making application therefore,
agrees to allow during normal working hours, the inspection of wreckers,
wrecker equipment and storage facilities. This authority shall be cumulative of
any other authority held by the Chief of Police, other law enforcement
officials, or other legally authorized public officials.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-70. Towing fees.
Permit holders are authorized under this article to charge the following towing
fees for non-consensual towing:
(a)    Light duty tow trucks.   A charge not to exceed $150.00 for the
nonconsensual towing of any vehicle from one point on a street to another
location within the corporate limits of the city or to the wrecker company
storage facility.
(b)    Heavy duty tow trucks.  A charge for the use of a heavy duty tow truck
shall not exceed $348.00 per hour for towing such vehicle from one point on a
street to another location within the corporate limits of the city, or to the
wrecker company storage facility, as a police pull. No heavy-duty tow truck
shall be used unless the use of a heavy duty tow truck is necessary for such
pull and is approved by a police officer at the scene.
(c)    Extra equipment/labor.  In the event the permit holder is required to
rent or lease a piece of equipment, which is not required in the normal
operation of a wrecker business, the actual cost for lease or rental of such
equipment/labor may be passed on to the vehicle owner. Permit holders may
charge an additional fee not to exceed $35.00 for the use of a dolly in the
loading and towing of a vehicle, when such device is required. A charge not to
exceed $91.00 per hour may be assessed by permit holders who are required to
wait at the scene of an accident or disabled vehicle tow, for any period beyond
one hour performing a nonconsensual tow, the calculation of such time beginning
one hour from the permit holder’s arrival at the scene, ending as the wrecker
leaves the scene, and shall be calculated to the nearest quarter-hour. An
additional fee of $50.00 may be assessed by permit holders who are required to
tow a vehicle in a nonconsensual tow beyond the point of the initial
destination, as designated by the person owning or legally controlling the
towed vehicle. An itemized bill will be provided to the vehicle owner,
detailing all charges for the use of additional equipment or for additional
labor.
(d)   No other charges.  Permit holders shall charge no fees for the
nonconsensual towing of vehicles except as authorized by this section.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00; Ord. No. 3294, § 3, 2-12-04; Ord. No. 3546, § 2,
10-11-07; Ord No. 3579, § 2, 5-8-08; Ord. No. 3781, §2, 8-25-11; Ord No. 4363,
§ 2, 05-12-22))
Sec. 103-71. Wrecker rotation list; operations.
The public safety communications center shall establish and maintain a wrecker
rotation list of light duty and heavy duty wrecker permit holders.
(a)   When the police officer investigating an accident determines that any
vehicle involved in the accident is unable to safely proceed under its own
power, or when the police officer determines that the driver of any vehicle
involved in an accident is physically unable to safely move the vehicle to a
location where it will not create a traffic hazard, such officer shall request
the driver to designate a permit holder or tow truck operator of the driver’s
choice to remove the vehicle.
   (1)   When the designation has been properly made, the police officer shall
communicate the name of the designated permit holder or tow truck operator to
the public safety communications center or its authorized agent.
   (2)   The public safety communications center or its authorized agent shall
cause the designated permit holder or tow truck operator to be called and
directed to the scene.
(b)   If the owner of a vehicle is physically unable to designate a permit
holder or tow truck operator to remove the vehicle, or if he or she fails or
refuses to designate one, or has no preference, then the police officer shall
communicate that fact immediately to the public safety communications center or
its authorized agent. The public safety communications center or its authorized
agent shall then call the permit holder next in line on the wrecker rotation
list and request the permit holder to tow the vehicle from the scene. After the
last permit holder on the list has been called, the next such call shall go to
the first permit holder on the list.
(c)   The permit holder, upon being notified of the call, will dispatch the
necessary number of the permit holder’s or the permit holder’s agent’s tow
trucks to remove all police pulls from the scene. The permit holder receiving
and accepting notification from the City of Longview public safety
communications center will be responsible for each tow truck dispatched to the
scene meeting all the requirements of this section and any statutory provisions
of the State of Texas. If the permit holder after arrival at the scene
determines, in conjunction with the police officer in charge, that assistance
is needed that cannot be provided by the permit holder, then the police officer
in charge will notify the public safety communications center to contact and
cause the next available permit holder on the appropriate rotation list to be
dispatched to the scene.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00; Ord. No. 3294, § 4, 2-12-04)
Sec. 103-72. Storage fees/charges.
A permit holder may charge the owner of a vehicle nonconsensually towed a
storage fee and other charges as permitted by the law of this state.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-73. Records.
The permit holder shall maintain complete and accurate records of the towing,
receipt, storage, release, and disposal of all vehicles. Receipts and other
records shall be available to the city upon request.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-74. Dispatch of rotation wreckers.
The city's public safety communications center may cause the dispatch of the
wrecker companies listed on the wrecker rotation list by contacting the wrecker
company directly or communicating with the wrecker service's messaging center.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-75. Police officer not to influence selection of wrecker service.
A police officer investigating or present at the scene of any wreck or
collision shall not directly or indirectly recommend to any person the name of
any wrecker company engaged in the wrecker business; nor shall any such police
officer influence or attempt to influence in any manner the decision of any
person on choosing or selecting a wrecker company.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-76. Driving wreckers to scene of collision prohibited; exceptions.
No person shall drive or cause to be driven, a wrecker or tow truck to or near
the scene of a collision on a street in this city unless such person has been
called to the scene by the city police communications center or its authorized
agent or by a party involved in the collision; provided, that in an emergency,
when it appears necessary to prevent death or bodily injury to any person
involved in a collision, the prohibition of this section shall be inapplicable.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-77. Duties of permit holders.
(a)   It shall be the obligation of all permit holders under this article to
operate wrecker businesses so as to provide safe and prompt removal of wrecked,
disabled or police pull vehicles when properly called upon to do so in
accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)   The duty to provide safe and prompt wrecker service upon call includes,
but is not limited to, the following specific duties:
   (1)   Upon receiving a call from the public safety communications center or
its authorized agent, the permit holder shall dispatch the requested wrecker to
the desired location. The permit holder shall provide motor vehicle towing
service within 30 minutes for light-duty wreckers and for heavy-duty wreckers,
from the initial request for service by the city. The permit holder shall be
available on a seven days a week, 24 hours a day basis.
   (2)   Upon arrival at the scene of a collision within the incorporated
limits of the city's wrecker company personnel shall take directions from the
police officer investigating that collision.
   (3)   Wrecker company personnel of a permit holder which hauls any vehicle
from the scene of a collision within the incorporated limits of the city shall
remove the debris of collision from the public streets. This duty specifically
includes removal of broken glass and metal fragments from the street, and the
removal of any load of any vehicle from the traveled portion of the street so
as to eliminate any hazard to vehicular traffic. This does not include
responsibility to unload cargo from the wrecked vehicle in order to permit
hauling. Debris should be disposed of in a manner which will keep it out of
gutters, storm sewers, streams, public right-of-ways and property not belonging
to the wrecker company, without the consent of the property owner. The officer
on the scene of an accident may provide assistance in locating a place for
disposal of such debris.
   (4)   Any permit holder on the wrecker rotation list must tow to a place
designated by the owner unless the owner of the vehicle is disabled by physical
injury and is therefore unable to designate a location for the vehicle to be
towed; the permit holder shall then store the vehicle in a licensed vehicle
storage facility. In all cases, the officer on the scene shall have the
authority to require the vehicle to be towed to a location designated by the
city for crime scene preservation and processing.
   (5)   No permit holders shall store any vehicles or wreckers on the public
streets or right-of-ways. Permit holders shall use reasonable care in the
storage of property not belonging to said permit holders so as to minimize the
risk of theft or damage.
   (6)   All permit holders shall comply with all ordinances of the city
including, not limited to, the fire prevention code, the traffic ordinances,
the criminal ordinances, etc. Failure to do so will subject a permit holder to
administrative penalties as set out in this article, in addition to other civil
remedies or penal provisions of the statutes or ordinances in question.
   (7)   All permit holders shall at all times comply with all rules pertaining
to minimum safety standards for the operation of tow trucks adopted by the
Texas Department of Transportation pursuant to the Texas Transportation Code.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-78. Administrative disposition of violations.
In lieu of or in addition to any criminal prosecution or civil remedy for the
violation of any provision of this article, the Chief of Police shall have, as
to the holders of any permit, or as to any applicant therefore, the duty and
authority to enforce the provisions of this article by administrative action in
accordance with the principles and procedures set forth hereinafter:
(a)   The proper and safe functioning of the wrecker business has critical
impact on the health, safety and welfare of the public, involves use of the
public streets of the city of ten in circumstances necessitating prompt removal
of dangerous obstructions to traffic on said streets; therefore, the privilege
of any person to be a permit holder operating a wrecker company in the city
shall be subjected to strict regulation in order to protect the public.
(b)   For purposes of invoking any administrative remedy against a permit
holder, the acts or omissions of any agent or employees of said permit holder
shall be considered to be the acts or omissions of said permit holder.
(c)   Grounds for suspension or revocation of a permit include:
   Any three incidences of the following offenses without justifiable cause
during the permitted year:
      (1)   late on rotation. Failure to respond within the time allotted by
this article;
      (2)   failure to properly clean up debris at the accident scene.
   Any of the following offenses are cause for automatic permit revocation at
the discretion of the Chief of Police:
      (1)   failure to respond. Failure to respond after notification and
confirmation of such notification;
      (2)   failure to maintain wreckers in compliance with this article;
      (3)   driving any wrecker to or from the scene of a collision in a manner
which endangers the life or safety of any person;
      (4)   failure to maintain in effect any insurance required by law;
      (5)   failure to maintain or provide a licensed storage facility as
required by this article;
      (6)   charging a fee in excess of the amounts authorized by this article;
      (7)   failure to comply with the legal order of a police officer at the
scene of an accident or other nonconsensual tow.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00; Ord. No. 3294, § 5, 2-12-04)
Sec. 103-79. Procedures for administrative disposition of violations; appeals.
(a)   Suspension or revocation of the permit issued under this article may be
accomplished by the Chief of Police after a hearing before the Chief of Police
or the Chief of Police’s designee. Notice of hearing, administrative action
which may be taken, and the ground therefore, shall be given to the permit
holder ten calendar days, prior to the hearing. Mailing of said notice to the
last known business address of said permit holder shall constitute sufficient
notice. Suspension or revocation of the permit shall be accomplished by notice
in writing to the permit holder, which states that the suspension or revocation
of the permit has occurred. Such notice shall be given within ten calendar days
of such suspension or revocation. Appeals from an adverse ruling by the Chief
of Police shall be made in writing to the City Manager, or the City Manager’s
designee, within ten calendar days of such suspension or revocation and not
thereafter, and such appeals shall be determined by the City Manager, or the
City Manager’s designee, after a hearing before the City Manager or the City
Manager’s designee, of which the permit holder has had reasonable notice.
Written notice of the ruling by the City Manager, or the City Manager’s
designee, shall be mailed or given to the permit holder within ten calendar
days of the date the written appeal is received by the City Manager. The City
Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, shall have authority to reverse,
vacate, sustain or modify the order of suspension or revocation.
(b)    Such revocation of a license or permit shall terminate all authority and
permission heretofore granted. Any person whose license or permit has been
revoked shall not be eligible to again apply for a license or permit for a
period of up to one year from the date of a revocation.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00; Ord. No. 3294, § 6, 2-12-04)
Sec. 103-80. Penalty.
The violation of any provision of this article is hereby declared to be
unlawful and upon conviction, the violator shall be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500.00. Each 24 hours period shall constitute a separate offense for
the violation of this article.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-81. Application of conflicting ordinances.
All ordinances of the city, in conflict with this article, are hereby declared
inapplicable to the extent that they conflict with the provisions of this
article.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Sec. 103-82. Severability.
If any section, subsection, clause or phrase of this article is for any reason
held to be unconstitutional, such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this article.
(Ord. No. 2925, § 2, 5-25-00)
Chapters 104 - 105
Reserved
Chapter 106
Reserved
UDC to Appendix A:
Unified Development Code
In_an_effort_to_streamline_and_improve_the_regulations_and_codes_for
development,_the_City_of_Longview_placed_zoning,_subdivision,_and_development
ordinances_within_an_Appendix_called_the_Unified_Development_Code_(UDC).
The_Unified_Development_Code_(UDC)_is_a_document_that_consolidates_all
development-related_regulations_into_a_single_resource_rather_than_in_various
separate_ordinances.
The_UDC_contains_content_related_to_but_not_limited_to:_development_review
bodies,_Planning_and_Zoning_Commission,_Zoning_Board_of_Adjustment,_Historic
Preservation,_Construction_Advisory_and_Appeals,_Building_Official,_submittal
and_processing_procedures,_development_site_plans,_permit_types,_project
completion_certificates,_contractor_types_and_licenses,_commercial_and
residential_general_contractors_and_construction,_driveways,_sidewalks,
plumbers,_electricians,_demolition,_landscaping,_irrigation,_fire_protection
sprinklers,_fire_alarms,_fire_extinguishers,_fire_lanes,_storage_tanks,_utility
contractors_and_utilities,_zoning_districts,_zoning_land_use,_platting,
fencing,_screening,_buffer_yards,_tree_preservation,_vehicle_parking,_off-
street_loading,_multi-family_development,_downtown_development,_central
business_district,_nonconforming_lots,_planned_developments,_specific_use
permits,_subdivisions,_street_lighting,_street_sign,_private_streets,_traffic
impact_analysis,_water,_wastewater,_industrial_waste,_infrastructure,_grease
traps,_abandonment,_right-of-ways,_easements,_flood_damage_prevention,_modular
and_mobile_home_requirements,_mechanical_code,_electrical_code,_plumbing_and
gas_code,_energy_conservation_code,_pool_and_spa_code,_sign_and_billboard
regulations,_setbacks,_appeals,_variances,_hearings,_access,_accessory
buildings,_engineering_specifications,_job_cleanliness,_and_more.
https://www.longviewtexas.gov/DocumentCenter/View/5292/Unified-Development-
Code-UDC---Revised-March-9-2023
